ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u1	Borist has received a letter from the travel, industrial, and innovation secretary where request is made to provide a written answer to a spell query. 57, on an indiscriminate agreement, from Óli Björn Kárason.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u2	A respectable president. I'd like to go to the Senate and tell them that this weekend the Independence Party was having a national meeting. It is a pleasure for us who have been attending our national conventions for decades to meet old associates and discuss matters and to enhance our friendship. Of course, having friends and having a good time together is part of the political bitch, also having fun in the politics. It is very important that we can enjoy our work in preparing for what is good for our country and people, that is, of course, the objective of all of us with this work here. I was particularly pleased with those who came from the meeting. What a powerful gathering that is! When a professional health committee was working on a committee on Friday and Saturday, over 180 people were meeting the Committee to accept and pass its conclusions. The matter was handled there, but as in a proper and successful assembly place, people go out of agreement, and we guard our policy. I was particularly pleased that at the end of the council, it was agreed to reduce the loss of disability and pension. It's one of our big cases that we want to work on, to ensure all the opportunities to participate in the labour market, but dollars per cent still work with those who are in the disability business. The decline is to be canceled already, it was accepted. I am happy and confident that we in this house are together for that change.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u3	Mr. President. Anon's main meeting was held last week. Two interesting events occurred at that meeting. First, a decision was made not to pay interest. Secondly, the bank was found to have stopped selling Valitor from the kit; I repeat, canceling. What does that mean? He thus confirmed what the Central Party said all along, that the bank was going to sell Valiator as soon as he got the government's letters on the watch. That's a lot of news. For this, there's only one reason. Fear of the bank's managers for the discussion that has taken place here at the Assembly Hall, the Central Party's fight on Arion Bank and the fear of being a businessman from the bank. The middle class gave a clear picture of the plans of hedge funds to operate with the bank's assets in order to maximise their own profits and to make sure that the government fund is least available. The media also pointed out ways that could be taken to prevent the sale of the bank's letters. They did not listen. A special discussion about Arion's bank was held by the middle party. That's where the chief one did. Although the prime minister did not thank the head of the Middle Party for his performance in the stability agreements, she did not want to accept good advice from him on behalf of Adoni. In the same way, the High School Board promised the former head of the Party, Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunulsson, for solving the affairs of the fallen banks, who returned hundreds of billions of dollars into the state's budget; however, the band could not name him, calling him a confidant. Mr. President. The treasures of the forest will wait, they will wait for the storm to lie down, they will make money, and they will sell Valitor. Thanks to the government, which was like an army without a head in this struggle and gave away the only weapon she had, the stock of the state.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u4	Mr. President. The same day we discussed mistrust at the highest level. The Minister of Justice wrote under a Regulation that strongly narrows the interpretation of international protection candidates in a particularly delicate position and therefore receives their application for the material treatment. The new Regulation states that for an individual to be considered in a more sensitive position, there must be a great deal of serious illness. Is now a requirement for sudden and life-threatening disease to be observed and that treatment with it is available only in the country but not in the country. I'm especially interested in the fact that this Regulation also applies to children, children to flee as by this change. In general, the Minister of Justice is not in a particularly delicate position, as you might think, but a sudden and life - threatening illness must be placed on top of his emergency to obtain his application for the protection of the European government. I would also like to draw the attention of the world's council members to the fact that with relatively recent changes in alien law, the Lawgiver's particular will that material applications for international protection should always be taken into consideration if the applicant is in a particularly delicate position. I don't think there was a suspect when the law changed that a minister would merely bring into the heart of his varied mind to change a law to restrict the rights of children and others who are in a more sensitive position, so that this exception only applies to the children and others who are near death and who are not. With the new Regulation, the minister makes even more strict demands on the government to do all they can to avoid taking in the physical application for international protection. I believe it takes an extraordinary ability not to see the wickedness of such rules. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u5	A respectable president. Three years ago, the Internet was on a video that received 10 thousand eyes in the first 24 hours of the day. Why? Yes, the content of the video was discussed in the public language about the bitter discrimination in pay, of the inaugural disrespect of a big company with the staff, of people who had done an enormous job because of changes in the house's capacity of up to half. Every day, from 27 tons to 45 pounds [27 kg], no one could have imagined it. People worked with superiors, and everyone felt proud and satisfied. But what were the thankss? It was an ice pick, which the cook from his kindness gave the people dessert because they had not been told to cook well. People were waiting for a good meal or a thank - you speech from owners, but nothing happened. And the aftertaste of ice was bitterness, extreme anger, and frustration over the lack of appreciation for the company. Remuneration was under contracts, so professional drivers just didn't understand what people were complaining about. In reality, though, a conversational video was given over three weeks, with all the vocabulary in the text, what the confidants had tried to do for three years. The address was raised, and people found the difference with pay paid. Three years ago, I sang a song that was spoken in the East. Now I'm standing here on the platform because I know that changes can be made if you open up the difference and express your opinion rather than just sit on the tip and do nothing. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u6	A respectable president. I would like to begin my speech by celebrating news of the Independence Party meeting. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson told us earlier that he had taken up many of the people's battles, such as to cut off a crown and to meet the disability. I'm excited to have my money. I would like to use this opportunity to cover issues that have not received the attention that I think it deserves. This is where I mean long-term lack of work. A report on the state and outlook of work between 2016 and 2018 found that there is a significant difference between the job situation and the age of the job. Thus, about one third of out - of - work people aged 50 years and older are long - term, but only eight of the people in the youngest group. What is the history of the workforce? Is it really so that this country has something to say about age in the Icelandic labour market? Is it really so in 2018 that the Icelanders have ages at work? People who lose their jobs by or after 50 years of age may find it very difficult to get a job again. Are these people really out of the game as regards employment? Many of them are well - educated, and more important, they have earned valuable experiences that, if all were normal, would be extremely desirable. But it does not seem so. Another factor is that often these are the most reliable employees in each workplace if you look to attendance and punctual. So there should be sought after. Is the workforce rejecting middle - aged people? This has led to an intensive discussion of the need to bring up retirement age and also to make people, such as making Kingdom employees, able to work longer than 70 or 70 years of age. There's something here that doesn't go together. We need to take up the discussion on this very important subject, which I know burns on very many, and it can be said that a number of subjects have been taken up for a detailed discussion in the recent stages that are less than just this. [[The president calls.]] Is this not a trend that needs to be followed?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u7	A respectable president. I'd like to draw the attention of the United States Congress on the security assessment of FIB and EuroRAP at 2,200 miles [200 km] of the Icelandic road system that was opened this morning. This security assessment is now open to all, and it can be viewed as being given by the EuroRAP to the Icelandic road system. Is it safe to say that it's not coming out too well? This is all to increase the safety of road users, whom I believe to be one of our most important welfare issues, to correct it. According to the EuroRAP security assessment, there are many improvements in the Icelandic road system, but all of which can be seen is a single one of 4,200 miles [1,200 km] away. You can also see in this system what you can do to improve your safety. There are both small and large projects proposed. You can see the interest in it, what it costs to go into the process and what it does, not to mention all the tragedies that can never be valued and hardly be discussed, but also the costs that can be prevented. I think we should take advantage of these numbers to set financial priorities, in order to improve traffic security. It turns out that things are going very bad all over the country. We don't need to be afraid that if we follow this system, it will reduce the financial resources in our local roads, because it's all over the country. Let's put the safety of traffic in foregrounds. We'll build up the road system and increase the economic growth and reduce these tragic accidents, which cost us so much, both social and economic.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u8	V.E.G. President. I'm here to discuss health care, policy and prevention. Inevitably, it is not to associated it with the demographics of the changed criteria, or evolution, rather, let us say, a rising proportion of the elderly and the increasing average age. Population forecasts suggest that within 40 years, a fourth of the nation's population over 65 years of age will evidently have fewer working hands behind those who need adequate care. This involves great challenges, and we are aware of the importance and urgency of developing health - care policies for all services and funding. Prevention should have an important place in such policies. In a government contract, the highest. Governments highlight all these factors, stating that there will be attention to the development of health issues, to implement a mental - health program, to act in the construction of nursing homes, and to strengthen their operating grounds. It was made clear in the recent issue of the financial environment of health care that a large area of nursing care needs to be established so that proper care and service will be ensured. V.E.G. A health minister is aware that such improvements are needed. I'm expecting to see this place in a government budget soon to appear. V.E.G. The government also stresses prevention and public health. In my opinion, we are increasingly looking at these factors, that is inevitable, wide ahead of education, in the health system; with increased support for the activities of children and adolescents in youth and in aging. A number of studies confirm that effective prevention can be achieved through healthy childhood and sports activities in children and adolescents, as well as the exercise of older ones.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u9	Mr. President. So I would like to discuss the work at the Independence Party meeting - no, on the work of the Parliament, on the respect of the council, and also on the government. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Most agree that the people need to have the respect of the people in general, but this has not gone well. One of the first acts of the majority during the council was the dissipation of political parties to increase money. In fact, it was a big campaign, and the nation's insistence that money go to political parties. Not to our old people. The welfare of political parties is being cared for. The Congress has not seen a reason to bring down the Council of Elders and Ministers to a decision on the pay raise. The Senate did not see reason to self-save elected representatives through the cost of work until the press became available. It can also be noted that it took more than a year to draw that information out. There is no fall to increase the respect of the council. Minister of Justice was convicted of violating the law. The Minister of Justice brings into question the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance plans to break the law at the end of the month. He announced to the council that financial programs would not be available in time. This crime has no criminal record. Since 2012 the council has chosen to ignore the nation's will for a new constitution, and now the case is to be mentioned. Again. A general assembly is not to be trusted, nor is it mentioned in making constitutions. The Constitution is to protect the public from violence by the authorities. I can count for a long time, it's not gonna work out sitting here in these buckets and saying, "The system's just like this. The problem is, not that the public has no respect for the Council, but that we do not respect the people. Let's change it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u10	A respectable president. When the Piratars were a member of a tribunal class during the district of 2013 in 2012,2016, we failed to qualify for a committee that made it known, because we were trying to be an honest party, that we did not always vote, often and often because we did not have authority, we simply did not have the resources to cover the matters that were then discussed. At the worst, this was according to the Web site Tingers.is 39.1%. What's interesting is that you hear criticism from the highest level. The Minister of Justice, when she casts pills here in Porta's garden of indifference when the Independence Party itself at the 141th, was with 16 members, and was well enough to have all the committees, had a stand in 33% of cases, which is still somewhat lower than in the Piranha when it was at its worst. It's not in itself what I find interesting because it's all statistical that doesn't assume the reality of the Council. What I find very foolish, however, is to hear a lack of attitude. The Minister of Drug Abuse, as we heard yesterday in an uncivilized inquiry in response to my inquiry about whether a minor substance abuse should exist in a criminal record or not. I think it's weird to hear that it's the highest. The Minister of Justice should come from either the liberal or liberal nature of the Independence Party, but he cannot take sides against us against the drug abusers, whether by putting them on criminal record or otherwise. Thus I call to independents who speak a lot about freedom here, usually of store liberty, good and blessed, usually of the individual's freedoms. Here we are talking about stopping walking on the freedom of people who do something that generally belongs to their personal life. I want the Independence Party to show their stand against freedom, with freedom, and by applying the proposals that are presented in the Health Minister's report on their subject. Take your stand, Independence Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u11	President. The government of the country needs to inspect Iceland's community for a longer period than the ideal period, both to set out a policy on how we want to build but also to prevent problems that will occur just beyond the horizon. Today, there are 275 midwives in Iceland, 83 of them in their 60's, and they will retire in the next decade. Only 17 midwives are 35 years of age or younger. Invited to pursue a two - year - old education to obtain permission as a midwife, with the related debt collection of student loans, there is no one while midwives have a somewhat lower basic wage than nurses. President. I would find it interesting to know if any other study in the country within the same field of service has resulted in a reduced salary rate. Isn't there some action that needs adjustment? According to OECD, Iceland is third place for the lowest mortality of the newborn. Such results can only be maintained by more intensive education, good employment, adequate remuneration, and a sufficient number of midwives to care for new parents and neonates of the land. With virtually no recent intervention in one of the country's most important professions, governments are not doing anything to encourage it. On the contrary, actually. Nevertheless, when midwives went on a strike to force a measure of acceptable value, they stayed awake. The minister of finance refused to pay midwives full pay for his work during a strike, which is the case on the way to the Supreme Court. President. If it is not our intention to bring down the work of midwives, which I intend to hope not to be true, it is of utmost importance that health ministers and financial ministers work together to ensure healthy recruitment in the order of midwives, both their pay at Land Hospital and at the health care centres of the country, as well as in practical payments for the public service of midwives used by about 90% new parents. Iceland's midwives are going to be 100 next year. Let us celebrate the milestones of a practical program to continue the birth service in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u12	A respectable president. Last week, I was so scared. I got really hurt. I'm asking, where's the government? How can an elderly citizen be discharged from hospitals and sent home to starve? How can you agree that 11 persons who are discharged from a hospital will receive less than 900 calories in diet? The worst got 200 calories, which is totally starving. What was found in the refrigerator of the individual was maltdor and a bottle of light. That it should be tolerated - because it is nothing more than a fixed violation of the constitution. And that there's no red light flashing and there's nothing to do to get these things right is just really weird. This applies not only to the older citizens of this country but also to those who live alone and have the right to rent and starve between them. I'm glad that my partner, boy. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson sent a message from the independents to meet the dollar impairment. It's about time. A centenarian against the centenarians was never to be tolerated. It is a disgrace to this council that it has not long been taken away because it affects so many things. It keeps people in poverty, people don't have food. That is why people in the community are starving. I ask, are we going to let it go - we're going to say it's okay for people to starve? Is it okay to only have a maltdo and a bottle of light in the fridge? Where's our surveillance? And where's the Ministry of Health? I demand that we handle this matter, so I'll get it right because it's not okay. Even if it is good, we do not have to starve others.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u13	Mr. President. I'm gonna get to the climate one more time. We can reduce emissions and have to spit in our hands. Release is only one aspect of the anti-improvement action, the other side is so called carbon binding that we have discussed, but it does not in itself relieve us from reducing emissions. The binding takes place, as everyone knows, by growing wastes and poor vegetation, by returning wetlands by some kind of scientific approach, and by practicing forestry. Foresting also has other values that I'm not going to enter. The forestry sector's goal now, the whole forestry sector, is four times that of the newly created species, but this is only doubled if we were to produce a new one before a crash. This results in a substantial binding, which I'm not going to explain in numbers, and it's both domestic species, since birch forests form the main forest and forestlands of Iceland, but also alien species for sustainable use. I'm going to propose, on the basis of a 100-year-old head of Iceland, an idea of a great campaign, to your thoughts. I suggest that there be a fund, a sort of self-employment agency, which we can call Iceland's Gloveys, or something like that. So it is a national campaign, with contributions from state and community, businesses, institutions and the public, that should be directed first to the akhills of foresting, which is, in effect, the production of plants to the export plants. She's about to be protected, and it needs to be multiplied. Then you might think of another way to expand forestry. Such a fund could become a very glorious and needed gift to us personally at the turning point in our country's history. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u14	Mr. President. If we fail to use the opportunity and right share of those who are living in Icelandic society, we would be in a state of complete disrepair. We've done a lot of things. We'd like to cancel the holiday market because of the elderly's employment. We'd like to resolve the disability of the man - made poverty trap they're living in here. We want to rebuild reforms, reforms, child support. We want income that is not enough for forwarding, on the basis of the Board of Management of the Management Board's website on the Ministry's welfare for forwarding, to be free of income tax. The figures there are very clear. The tax-free zone dissociates just over 150 points. K. but the Department's Web site shows that an individual's strategium per month accounts for less than 223 of you. K. This is a test case. This is a matter of taxing income that is not sufficient for necessities according to the official assessment available in this material. It should not be so that people who don't make money that earns money for the needy will need to earn a portion of their income from the tax. Mr. President. In view of the media of the Independence Party meeting, I allow myself to expect far - reaching support for these matters, and most of all, I expect the benefits of independence.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u15	Mr. President. I come up here in a weak attempt to repay the much positive attention and the great affection that was gained by the Independence Party meeting of the past weekend, discussing the course of the Independence Party regarding the location of the Landal Hospital. I asked to have a word about this for what. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kámsson and I thank him for agreeing to that. In the National Conference of Independence Party, it says, by permission of presidents: The construction will be completed on the National Hospital Building and related to the current activities. The need for immediate local selection for the development of high-risk hospital services with security and a stronger transport guide will be reviewed. This raises questions. What's up? What's up? It's the hospital, isn't it? What about the treatment core? What about the lab? What about college? Can't these projects have gone to the stage, have they? In fact, I believe that I know what those who suggested this, the ever - increasing middle class of Independence Party, that the hospital would be built somewhere else than on Ring Way. If that's the correct interpretation, then this operation is completely upset, isn't it? Redinging the leadership of the Independence Party has been so far - notice - building two hospitals. Two. I know that there's more good in the land and everyone's spending money, but isn't it a lot of good? It is only finally about the road that is sometimes mentioned. The land hospital has done a great job of urging people to go to work in an environmental way. In 2016, 40% of employees went to work, cycle, or bus. What do many people think is walking, riding, or busing toward Vifils? I'd like to ask, though. Senator: How many national hospitals does the Independence Party want to build? Where are they supposed to be?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u16	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for bringing attention to the independence policy. It's always good to discuss it as if he knows it from an old age. On January 25, I told the Land Hospital that we should, rather than arguing about where the hospital we're building is, about where we're going to go and how we're going to build a 21st century hospital. That's a project that's definitely ahead of us in the next 203/430 years. Of course, we have rather bad experience, Icelanders, not to make decisions until the time is up and then to put our hope to the finish. That's why we're biting on the land hospital shame. It is clear that the Independence Party is complete, and no change is made, to continue building up the Land Hospital at the site of the Circle Course, the treatment core, etc. On the other hand, we say, and where it must be, it must be. A senator with us: We need to consider the next building of a hospital because it will come, perhaps sooner than we know. We need to take that assignment so that we know what we are doing and what type of hospital we are going to build. Let's stop arguing about the location of the hospital. Let us complete this assignment and move on to the future, which is the National Health Organization and where and what kind of hospital we will build here in 20 or 25 years, which I hope will last forever.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u17	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize a home and settle. The bill includes an overall review of legal laws, No. 21/190, however, and social security laws, No. 73/1952. In other words, they are quite old. In recent decades, society in this country has made great changes. In this context, e.g. pointed out that Iceland became a party to the European Economic Area Convention on Free Transport. Computer and Internet services have changed much, and the nation has gone through a financial breakdown that led many to go outside to pursue employment, at least temporarily, and people have been living in other countries. Business and education of women have never been greater, and there is an increased demand for equality and equality. Unmarried couples who accept marriage form, homosexuals have the right to marry, divorce, and separation are more common when children live with parents. The above examples show that social conditions have changed so much since the earlier laws were passed that there is a great need for a change in legal law as well as a law on the obligatory status. With a letter dated June 23, 2017, the then existence of the transport and rural directors appointed a team to review current legal laws and the provisional hearings. Then, on September 7, 2016, the Council concluded that a minister would put up a team of workers who would prepare a legal review, no. 21/190, including with the goal of making it possible for a couple to have a legal home in their respective homes, whether they had a base within the country in different rural areas or other places in foreign lands. In some cases employers are known to require that the employee carry their home in or to the country where the company is working. In addition to the previously mentioned resolution by the General Assembly, an overall review of the law of law on law and the law on the announcement of segregation ended, as we have seen, was carried out by both law columns. The bill is aimed at ensuring that legislation on the law and setting things in line with today's needs and social practices and is clear and easily understood. The bill explains the objectives of legal registration, which is a new reference. It is thus suggested that the objective of the bill is to contribute to the implementation of individual housing and home registration and that the quality of the rightness of the treatment of problems involving home registration and residence should be ensured. As in the current court, the bill suggests that there is a legal home where you live. It also states that there is no right to have a legal home in Iceland and abroad at the same time. This rule has been determined today, but it is not legalized, and it is adjusted here. The Baseline concept is defined as in the current law, except that students, while they are in school, have a home or a place other than their legal home are registered. The legal requirement remains unchanged that it is only allowed to register a home in a home that is registered as an apartment home in a real estate file and has a standard. However, sources to record their legal home in other locations are removed from the current point of view. This is how a legal home, e.g., must be registered. in staff facilities and temporary residences. Living people in these places are real, so it is reasonable to allow legal registrations there to meet certain criteria. This consists of a variation from the principle that a home can only be in registered apartment housing, which should therefore be explained narrowly under general law. The law of regular living in the current law was given in the light of the Norwegian Law for regular living. Where there is an exception in the bill for residence in places other than lawhouses, it is reasonable that responsible individuals should be obliged to record their residence specifically at the Iceland National Book. It refers to a temporary residence in a home that meets the conditions of 2kre. The bill. The definition of a dwelling in question is in the current law. It is suggested that marriage mates be authorized to register in their respective homes and are being reputed. The same is not true with married couples, since there are other forms of living together. The registration of the children's home will remain unchanged, but in the future, both children's legal home and its residence must be recorded in the equal case of a child with both parents. In addition, there is the development of a prime minister of justice for the change in child law that will take over the exchange of children and is due next year, 2019. This bill gives the authority to hide the legal home of an individual and his household into a national registry if necessary and is to be reputed. However, in view of the review of national and public records, the requirement of a hidden home is postponed until 2020, in view of its review of the law on national records and public registration, while further implementation will be in a hidden home on that bill. The rules have been set for the registration of Icelandic students here and abroad, as well as for those who need to stay away from home because of illness. The bill shows the obligation of every individual himself to record his home and residence where this applies and to maintain the registry will change his or her progress. Iceland's national registry is a central registry member and is about to be registered under the legislation that applies to the Agency. It is recently stated that responsible authorities are now placed at a Synod-enforcement facility to monitor legal records in their property and provide them with permission to partially change the registry if it is incorrect. The rules for moving to Iceland and stay are basically consistent with the principles of current legislation. It should be noted, however, that any person who moves to the country and wants to sign his home cannot register his legal home electronically but must come in person to Iceland's National Office and provide personal IDs. This applies to Icelanders as well as foreign citizens. In accordance with local law on the change of places, their legal home could also be registered in moving to the country with local governments and police. Is that warrant canceled by bill? Iceland's National Registry is authorized to monitor registrations and to seek the help of the police and the National Institute of Iceland for that purpose. At that time, Iceland's National Constitution is granted authorization to an independent study of legal registrations and information gatherings in other institutions, rural and legislators capable of informing about the dwelling of individuals. That means a bank, credit card company, mail, telecommunications company, etc. Member States, rural communities and legislators are also granted their own authority to inform Iceland's National Constitution, all to the point of registration as right as possible. Then there's a new bill in the bill that Iceland's National Registry is authorized to correct the obvious errors of registration. The most important owner and the interests of the country may request that individuals be registered by property if they have no authority in a facility for which the owner is registered. Is it believed that this warrant will further lead to the right registration. However, the members of the synod are forbidden to dissociate their spouse from property unless there is a confirmation of a businessman's divorce of a couple's divorce or his formal consent for a registration of property. It is concluded that registration of the home should not be corrected further than one year from the time of the request. As noted, the primary objective of public registration is to reflect the actual and correct individual status. It is necessary to determine the correct reassignment of the registry, for as noted, certain right effects are dependent on national registration. Since Iceland's National Registry has to make some changes in its systems, including To establish a legal constitution and a target file, as well as to introduce the proposed changes to the law, it seems proper to have the validation law bedted. It is determined that the law will take effect on January 1, 2018, as shown in Article 19. It will then be assumed for the temporary continuation of the terms set out in the bill that measures the registration of people's home to a set apartments. Finally, provisional legislation on authority to maintain the registration of a home in an organized vacation home is expected to remain unchanged. A respectable president. I have explained the subject of the bill and suggest that the bill will be followed by this discussion referred to why. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u18	President. How happy we are that these legislation are being revised and brought to the modern - day view of changing social practices! But I'm curious to know why the exchange of children is not being taken over, i.e. A new home, which I think has been in all general discussions with a much more urgent problem, but what is described here as the main purpose of the legislatures in changing marriages. It has to do with the rights of parents who have joint custody to monitor their children's progress and to have access to the information and rights of their child to a divided home, such as a government report made by the State Department, was strongly stressed and welcomed here at the council about two years ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u19	A respectable president. A clear answer to a question why. The senator's decision on the issue of child care regarding the possible legal home in two places is that it is merely a legal minister and a child's law. In my speech, I considered that the Minister of Justice is working on such a bill. This bill, however, discusses the new reference that a site can be recorded. In fact, it will take time to get into work. It's 2020, one year later, if I remember correctly. That's a legal step from today's. However, a bill that concerns children is involved in child law, subject to the Ministry of Justice, and therefore is not in this law. The reason why this is specifically spoken of as a change in legal home for a couple is simply because there was premeditation agreed by the Council, directed to the Commission to produce such changes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u20	President. Thank you very much. Minister of Ministers respond, but I reiterate my frustration. The report says, with the permission of the president: ▪ Special attention was given to children who live equal with parents who have shared custody and who are not married or who may have twice the legal home. An internal minister's report on the production of children in two households placed before the Council of 145 was reviewed and the report of the same group from March 2017. It is believed that it may be difficult for rural society to fulfill their obligations in this regard and that it was therefore not considered appropriate to allow the registration of a double law. It seems to me that with the bill, the possibility of double legal registration is actually being canceled. I would have liked to see that at the same time, it would have been a permanent arrangement for the government, since I think it is a much more important issue for families in the country, which is about to be divided between children and rights of parents and children in that context, and would have been very desirable for the government to take from all doubt about how it would be permanently and not just another part of that matter, as this is done.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u21	A respectable president. Of course, one or any of them is not being struck off. Over the past few years, careful diagnostic work has been carried out on how to handle children's registration in these cases, when parents and children have divorced and make equal use of both parents. There was work in the custody of the State Department where transportation and rural government, national records, child law, and other cases under the Ministry of Justice were involved. When the bill was being won - and it is important that the changes presented here - the task force decided to give it simply to the Minister of Justice; the child's law is in custody of the Minister of Justice. I expect the Minister of Justice to offer suggestions. But it takes time. Children's registration and the right effects of that registration need to be taken seriously. I agree with what. A senator on this is a subject that is discussed in many parts of the world. If a child has a home in one place and a specific type of residence on another, the home will follow certain rights, e.g. parent's right to pay benefits, etc. [[The president calls.]] But in this bill it is new that you can start documenting places that I think are very important, especially for fathers who are often outside when the child is registered in a mother's home in elementary school, but there is no home for father.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u22	Mr. President. I come up here to discuss the issues of children and their home. Thank you very much. A minister for a presentation on the bill, but he also needs to state surprisingly that it is presented. Although children, or their legal registration, may be heard by another minister, it would have been easy for two government ministers to agree to change the law. Well, it's just the same law. I wondered if this is merely a response to the call of the industry or to the call of those who want to sign up in a rural society where the lower answer is. Or what's this for? Was this so urgent that these changes would have to be made, that a husband and wife could be written in two places, while a change in the legal registration of children has been called for years?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u23	A respectable president. I'll stay within the minute that I have, with the same question being asked. Simply put, the minister of justice has these issues to consider. Is that some strange reason why the bill comes out? No, of course not. I made it very clear that the Constitution law is from 1952 and the 1990s. There's a Senate resolution. If I remember correctly, the first carrier was a dog. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir, my sister-in-law. Senator. She took the initiative to commit to the project to revise the law of law. That's what we're doing now, less than a year and a half after the Senate resolution. In particular, it was to discuss the possibility of having a husband and wife living in their home. It is considered, that is, but a number of other adjustments are made because, in those days, society has become a significant change.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u24	Mr. President. Yeah, I'm on top of it. A minister will just have to excuse him for having certain suspicions at the councilman's office. Perhaps especially because of regulations of the 19th chapter. The bill on validation states that the law should take effect on January 1, 2019, except on certain regulations that will not be valid until January 1, 2020. This specific provision for children and their home is being checked in the Ministry, and you wonder why it was not simply taken place there. It is impossible to overlook what is stated in the report that rural society has some difficulty in registering children with twice the legal home. You wonder, especially because of the highest words. Ministers on change in society, the importance of gender equality and the like, when the principle in us has become common and very common, that children have settled with both parents, why is this great inability for governments to ensure parental equality and equality?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u25	A respectable president. In fact, I don't think there's any particular difficulty in this. I believe, however, that it is important for people to be able to work well. I have explained that the issues of this matter are addressed to the Minister of Justice, which has custody of children and child law. The preliminary principle that two things are not valid until a year later is simply for technical reasons. Iceland's national records are updating their systems on this registration and target record. This need to be made clear to you the warning about the change. That is why a set of validated regulations is covered, but provisional regulations are even more readily available to ensure that a national record is capable of carrying out the project. I think it's very positive that when both parents make up the same type of home, they can be registered as children. We will then discuss the whole matter in this regard when it comes to the establishment of the prime minister of justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u26	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for putting this case to work, there's a lot of good in it, I see. Still, there are some things about legal registration that I've wondered about for quite some time. I feel that an Icelandic community sometimes goes over to register on people, and I'm talking about this rich need by the government to know everything about everybody. I find that very uncomfortable. I'm glad to see you here at 7th. Talk about a secret home. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ Iceland's National Constitution can authorize an individual and his family to have their home hidden in a national record and not to be transmitted. That sounds really good to me. However, the report shows that this is a warrant for people when they are in danger of persecution, threats, or injuring them, or because a person's work may be in danger. I wondered, " Why is this restriction? ' Why can't people just cover up their home, just because? Or because they want to start by doing something that may provoke the hostility and anger of others, they say inconspicuously about religion on the Internet; elsewhere they have caused people to get into trouble, but they do not necessarily know in advance. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u27	A respectable president. The question may be, Why does the State Department establish rules about where people have a legal home? The answer is that this public registration was at its time set in order to meet the basic needs of the government in order to coordinate the registration of the people of the land. However, it is not that the State government is divided about where people live; rather, the rules aim primarily to ensure that the state's perspective can be drawn to people and can be driven into a community. For each person it is not possible to cover his address or home, this is exactly what the report shows. If so, it is covering up many institutions that need to be consulted. It's an exception. The fundamental part of the system is that men are enrolled in a legal home so that the Supreme Authority, the community, is at hand. In some cases it may be necessary for people to disappear, and in this way they may be done, including I'm hiding from other government institutions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u28	A respectable president. An interesting question is, Why is the State Department registering a legal home over one's head? But that's not the question I asked. I asked why people could not hide their home. I also know that the government kindly allows the public to live where he wants to, so general. Courtesy of this tremendous freedom, something I don't even feel about, ever, that the state has something to say. However, there are other things, such as the strange laws about names and other kinds of things. But that's not what I was wondering. It's why people can't hide their home for the reasons they wanted. The reason. There's a minister here who's bringing it up. It's a serious subject. I understand her well. However, as shown in the report, this law does not take effect until 2020. Even now there are technical solutions that enable people and institutions to contact people. If not e - mail or just mailboxes, some type of login site on the country.is where the city had a legal obligation to monitor and be responsible for reaching it there. There are technical solutions to this problem. I don't think this argument is quite enough, even if I think it's complicated. [[The president calls.]] I don't think they're quite enough considering that technological advances enable this completely, and certainly in 2020.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u29	A respectable president. You're right about what you're doing. A senator that in these changes, which are quite a bit different and yet a few new words, is a careful way out because it matters when it comes to the city's basic registrations that it is not overstepped. I agree with what. A senator in it. However, it is equally necessary for the state or community to have some perspective on where the cities live and what right they have in view of living. We make up the demand that a person's home be of a certain quality, and we do so in terms of certain standards. The organization of rural society suggests that some areas may not live and others do not. Therefore, it is important that the basic registration system harmonizes with this. But it's true that this is a dangerous place to change because we want to be careful.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u30	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you very much. Minister for transporting this bill. I'm going to ask the minister two questions, one in each answer. The first has to do with free time. In the bill it is not expected that unless I'm getting the wrong idea, a lawhouse could be registered in a private home. Free - time construction has become a completely different concept, perhaps 20 or 30 years ago, when houses in a vacation home were used primarily over the hibernation. By now, very many people even choose to stay in a vacation home more and less throughout the year. In that light, I'd like to ask if it's the highest. A minister believes that there is something that might be considered particularly when dealing with problems. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u31	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is an excellent candidate for matters that are widely viewed. In the ensuing process, this way was simply rejected by a large number of rural communities, the European Union of Icelanders and others, including the United States of America. .....thatI agree. Like what? In fact, over 20 to 30 years, a senator made so many changes. Houses built today for whole - wound farms with roads and opportunities for doing everything they need to do when making a home service, home care, ambulances, firefighters, school cars, and garbage - are anything but houses built 20 to 30 years ago, and I don't speak about 40 or 50 years ago. Then there's the right of a man who buys a vacation house in a vacation home. If his neighbor is suddenly able to turn it into a lawhouse, it is a little the same as that of Airbnb in the urban area. I understand very well the conclusion that if you build a summer house in the summerhouse, he wants it as a cottage - there's another plan where people can have a home -- I understand it very well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u32	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer, although I do not agree entirely with him. I would like to direct my second question to the affairs of older people, i.e. Registered law at a nursing home. It is a restricted authority. I suppose the highest. A minister is aware of the bill from signed and 20 other members of the House to live with the sick person in a nursing home, which has actually been highly accepted here at the council. It is assumed that a home would not be registered in the nursing home, i.e. A widow's home, but he'd have a residence elsewhere. I'm asking if a minister has any opinion on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u33	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator also asked a very interesting question. I think it's necessary, as in the other case, and it's natural that the committee reviews it, is given the legal evidence, the argument, and the convention we've evaluated in the Ministry. I think there's a significant improvement in the ability of men to record their legal home, to specific rights, to nursing homes. The bill takes no particular attention to this point in matters other than that it is permitted for a married couple to have a legal home in their locality. But the second way that the rights are guaranteed is something that I think the committee needs to go on specifically.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u34	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying that we're gonna have a quick look at this subject. This, however, provides a number of discussions with the legal registration and related issues involved. Over the years, I've often wondered about this phenomenon, lawhouse, the way I've considered the laws on human names and other things that the government in Iceland has decided are extremely important to them and not belonging to the individual himself. Of course, there is now a marked distinction between the laws of human names and laws of law that in the laws of human names, people are directly forbidden to name what they choose to name while the government has granted them the second time of freedom to live where it seems like but would like everyone to know where each person lives. Without going into over-exploited ideas, in the case of politicians, I don't think it's necessary to sign down people's homes in a national registry in order for our blessed system to function, either for rural society or for the state or for institutions. To establish such an arrangement, the address would not have to be registered in a national file, and it would certainly require some relief from the flea we have in technical progress to make it possible. But I think it's possible. I'm telling you, it's possible. From a technical point of view, at least it's not a complicated matter, I would say, with a note that I don't know the Office, the National Institutes of Iceland, and the institutions well enough to tell about any complications there. On the other hand, I always find this legal registration as a result of the appearance of Icelanders, feeling that the state knows everything about everybody and makes decisions based on extremely personal aspects of people's lives. Then we come to the subject of the bill, to 2 gr. which should be taken at a value of 2020. It is a comparable article in the current law 2 mgr. 1st par. It says that each individual has a legal home where he or she has a permanent home. All right, it's just as it is and has always been, or for a very long time. But at 2 mg. says: ▪ A fixed home refers to a place where a person has his base, usually stays in leisure activities, has his family records, and is at home when he is not away temporarily for study, holiday, working trips, illness, or other similar events. This is, in fact, the same thing as in the current law. It's not new. But I'd like to draw attention to it, just to think, that each and every part of it is about a person's personal life. Where people have their home every day is just their private life. Usually it has nothing to do with where I usually hang around. It has nothing to do with local authorities where I usually stay in my leisure activities. Now I'm a programmer. I like to play music. Some of these things I do at home, lots of them I do in coffee shops. Does it have anything to do with the government? No. And there is talk of family differences and sleeping places when people are not gone for a while - it has nothing to do with the government's financial resources where I sleep. Of course it's this way because it has to be this way, because we've decided, apparently, that there are people in general sleeping places who play to determine where people are paying an answer or what right they have to fellow rural society, etc. I understand those views. I think it's a matter of business. However, there is a solution to the problem that does not require that we force all to give up publicly where they store their stuff and sleep. Of course, it has modern technology. One technical solution would be that on the island.is, or on other central Webs where an ice key or similar could be used, people might have a portal, since they are dealing with people who truly need to reach out. Also, members of rural society can be registered without registered to a specific street. It can even be registered to a certain part of a community without documenting it on a specified street. The problem that we need to know basically where people live and where they have rights and duties does not require that we publish to the whole universe, at least a few light years of age, where people live and keep their stuff and sleep regularly. That does not require it. There's no need for this. This was needed, but it is no longer. I understand well and respect the Supreme Court. Minister would like to take it slow and do it with caution. But I also say, "We can totally keep our system on and guarantee people's rights and responsibilities, and yet let people leave this part of their private life alone. " We just can. It's not even that complicated, I'd say, in advance of my lack of knowledge on the inside of various institutions of Iceland. - Time flies when it's fun. For 5 / 15 G., about a couple's legal home, I would have liked to have another chance to respond to the highest degree. Minister because I just don't quite understand what I understand. Meaning. It reads, with President's permission: ▪ The shepherd has the same home. However, it is allowed to register for each couple at their place. I see a little bit of a song that looks like a contradiction. It comes up with a statement and then, as soon as it is completed, something totally wrong with what I was reading. I'm sure there's some kind of legal technique back there that I don't understand, but I don't get it. Is having the same lawhouse really the same as having it written? Don't I have a home where I'm registered with a legal home? I can't find an explanation for this in a report, but I trust the Committee to handle this and explain it. I hope she does. We're just not all lawyers that these things are completely obvious to us. We just make the law, aren't we in understanding it -- aren't we? I'd also like to talk about 7th degree. It's about a secret legal home that's in my heart. It says, by permission of the President: The National Constitution of Iceland can authorize an individual and his family to keep their home in a national record and not allow it to be transmitted. Sources for hiding their address in a national registry apply up to one year at the same time. I really like that. I'm very happy about this, and I'm just gonna say now that I'm probably going to try this myself, just to see if a national file thinks my reasons are good enough or not. I think they're quite good enough on a personal level. Let's see what the state thinks. In the bill's report, where we will discuss 7. "Proved, " says the president's permission, "a point that slightly reduces these glad tidings: It is necessary that the law has a clear authority to keep registration of a home hidden when people are in danger, e.g. Because of persecution, the threat of injury, or the individual's work may be in danger. The person must ask for it in writing, and he must give evidence that he has hidden a legal home. I think it's great that this warrant comes in there, that's very important. What I can't quite figure out is why, in the light of technical progress, we need to keep it this way. I'm telling you, we don't have to have these specific restrictions. People should be able to conceal their home. At the beginning of my talk, I discussed only the need to register the address of a head as a lawhouse, something that I doubt in the light of technical advances and opportunities that we have with them. But here I'm not talking about it. Suppose we find some overemphasis and a good reason why we need an address as a lawhouse, not a user's name on Iceland.is or mailbox or email address or what it is. Then I feel that it is not good enough that we have a responsibility to report this to all the world around us. It's no problem looking up people. All Icelanders can e.g. Visit the home of other Icelanders in their home bank. A lot of companies and institutions get different types of access to a national file and can look up these addresses. It is said that rural governments and the State need their address, as an example, because the police feel they need to arrest people, etc., where they can approach the person in person. The government has one reason to go so far, and only when it comes to very important interests of the State or the public or the personal interests of others. I don't know why the government's institutions, other than maybe the police, or business in a town, a interests organization, or political groups, or some such groups need the address of people to contact them. It is possible to send mail, to a computer or to a mailbox or to any central registration page that is not technically complex or expensive. If we even came to the conclusion that we needed an address there, I still feel that authority should be extended to cover our home. I'd like to give a little more evidence of this, which is, in fact, largely based on the logical support presented in a report at 7 g. People know, for example. not necessarily ahead of time if it is a threat. Let me give you one example. On the Internet, reasoning takes place. Reasons are not necessarily beautiful, as we know. They are not necessarily welcome everywhere. There are topics, very difficult topics, that we may not be accustomed to being difficult here. I mention topics such as independence, religion, whether this religion or the other religion is true or not. Such discussions can make people totally appealing. There are people on the Internet who threaten people with mistaken views of physical injury and death. That's it. Fortunately, we are relatively free from it in Iceland, at least as far as I know. I hope that's how it's going to be. Suppose I present a very unpopular religion or beliefs that may be popular, but a certain religious group is completely angry with me and sees nothing wrong with sending me threats to murder. So, what should I do before I decide to throw myself into that discussion? So I'm going to send a national mail file and say, "I'm thinking about arguing about this particular smell of certain religions, but I'm a little afraid of getting murder threats, don't you think it's okay if I get a secret home?" I think the answer would be no, given the specific divulge. Of course it would be necessary to try, but this is an example. Another factor is that something new happens in your life, e.g. that you become a politician. Suppose you were accidentally to be an unpopular politician, and a lot of people suddenly thought about protesting at your house. What would happen there? Then, I think, it would be pretty nice to have the lawhouse hidden into a national record, I would support that whole mind. And just so I say, so I'm sure to shock the hall, I think it's all right for politicians to record their home in the wrong place to protect their privacy. I'm sure that's not a comment, so it's said in the light of the discussion. What, though, if a person lives in a certain place, likes it there, and then decides to pursue politics, with all sorts of horrible views? Does that mean that she should stop having horrible views? Is she supposed to move? Should she hide her home, when it is already happening and know of those who have looked it up? I think people can sleep where they want to, keep their stuff where they want to and play where they don't want to tell them about it. I think it's totally free. I fully understand that it has not always been that way because technology has not always enabled us to fulfill our duties to the citizens and to ensure their rights without having this address at all times. But I believe that using technology, if possible, is possible. As a matter of fact, I appreciate it at this point that it is simple. And saying, "I could support this bill, because here are advanced ideas, e.g. on the legal home of a couple, and with them premonition that I don't understand the paragraph of Article 5. According to law, it is being said to be taking into account the new reality, i.e. that we give ourselves in advance, not that a husband and wife have decided to live a life that most people live to but even to their own, even according to their own heads, if the State allows it to be kindly granted. Is it good that it goes that way? On the other hand, I will be on the final sanctuaries, perhaps in a second speech to discuss in detail, divide children's living quarters. A report was published that was submitted to Council 145 on the switch between children. I don't make the same comments that others have made about it. There are two ways, on the other hand, to have double legal registration of children and, on the other hand, to change various laws and regulations in a way that children's legal home does not have such a dramatic effect on their parents'rights and rights to their parents. That's another story I might come up with in my second speech. Finally, I make it clear that I support this good issue and look forward to going further.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u35	A respectable president. I thought I'd come to the Pontu and discuss this case when I heard the term "creature." I can share a more interesting story from my old home country that started with a German paperwork system, and then the Soviets came on top of it and seasoned it with their ideas, so the results sometimes got a little fancy. At the time I still lived in Poland, e.g. can have a legal home that was supposed to be your main address. If a person temporarily moved to a school or to a job, he could have a temporary home somewhere. Then, if they went on vacation or visited their friends in another city, they would legally enter the police station, announce it, and then they had a temporary residence. Thus, one and the same person could have three different addresses at the same time. Polish government agencies and other organizations have sometimes asked people to specify all these addresses in all possible and unacceptable documents and then add a fourth address, i.e. each home is, the temporary home, temporary residence, and then they want to know where the man unsettlingly lives, just to be able to do something for him. I'm not sure that the increase in addresses the state has to be good, but I read this bill a little with the goal of wondering if we are trying to do something better for institutions or people in general. I'm not down to some final judgment in this regard. If you look, for example. ... the report on the discussion is that it speaks of the group that was appointed and it was Iceland's National Registry, Percontinental Protection, head of state taxation, health insurance, health insurance, National Institutes of Iceland, Labour Services, The Union of Iceland, Health Services, Multi-Screets, Social Security Services, Summer Deposits Association, State Department, and Vega's. In other words, in a large part of the people who helped to write this bill, the institutions were helped. I think it can be seen in some cases, but not all of them, and I'm going to mention things that I think are improving, some of which may have a bit of ridicule but still are good. Then I'm going to mention things that I don't think are necessarily good for normal people, but I can make things better for institutions. First, there is a 5. where, like a cot. paritaprevir Hrafn Gunnarsson's Helgi came to, is this fun 1? mgUnable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: ▪ The shepherd has the same home. However, it is allowed to register for each couple at their place. You have to take off your shoes--or not, completely clear. You try to be fair to those who wrote the bill, but the sentence sounds completely meaningless, for it does not make any choice, but sometimes it is the way it is, if a law that has been present before, which is that a husband and wife should have the same lawhouse, they simply take it out without anyone else knowing what to do after the law is not going to do. I imagine the intentions were, for otherwise we might begin to quote an earlier example that it was always like this. I hope we can explain this during the hearing of the council. Then, in fact, 2 gr. A significant change that not so many people have discussed, that if this bill is passed, people's legal home will be registered in a certain apartment. It's not like today. The law of all who live in a designated apartment building is registered in exactly the same place. This is often a problem for institutions, and perhaps in some cases also people, but we have to remember that this means that a lot of Icelanders will have to determine which apartment they live in so that they may have to write about it for people. There's one thing here that's the highest. Minister mentioned, registration at the time of entry. It is discussed in paragraph 14. and it states that once you enter the country, you need to sign a legal home by coming in person to Iceland's National Book, not to do so by police or by a certain community. This is clear in the discussion of Article 14. so that, according to local law on the reporting of the establishment exchange, local and police legislation could also be recorded, which is canceled by the bill. In a small community, it is unnecessary and cost - saving to have registrations in more places. It requires specialized knowledge and training to read and evaluate IDs, whether foreign or domestic, including to see if they are false. Of course, a person can understand this from the perspective of the local institutions, but it has to be said that for the individual it is a relief to be able to do this without having to come to the area in one particular institution and be able to do this in his own rural society or near police office. About 1 5th paragraph. says: It is suggested that Iceland's National Registry be allowed to provide information on the dwelling of individuals at institutions such as, e.g. National insurance agencies, Iceland's health insurance, Icelandic loan fund, government tax managers, customs managers, Foreign Institutes, Labour Services, rural and police services, as well as companies in private businesses where addresses are preserved, for example. by telephone, banks, credit card companies, and Facebook, it doesn't exist, but it can be understood as being within this frame. It is also authorised to provide such information for both Iceland's national and its own national records. The purpose is that legal registration is always correct, both for public interests as well as for the protection of the legitimate interests of citizens of the country and the public. I only show that these sources are, at least, Based on the report, a little space, so let's keep that in mind, and again ask ourselves, " Is this a relief for the individual, or is it an convenience for the government agencies involved here? ' Finally, there is one, completely within the same system of ideas that has been mentioned here, the double legal registration that has not been able to access this bill with the explanation the Minister has given that it is on the custody of another minister, even though the government is with us in the Senate alone and strictly. Rather, I wanted it to be possible at the same time because, as many have noted, this was an example of a change that truly helped many people, would reflect a changed family pattern, and would be a change in what was before. In this, I welcome the approach in the bill to provide space every time for adjustment. I feel that if there's a great deal of interest in the council that I sense is making knots so that children living in two places can be recorded correctly, in effect, in line with coherence, in a national file. I feel that it is better to give even more time for adaptation to national files because there is a database that is linked to many other databases, which, of course, needs to be carefully considered. I think it's more likely to work than merely trust that it will be done somehow in the future. I think, in these cases, it should be well used to have a space of space for adjustment, but as I say, I understand what the Ministry is going on in these areas, but sometimes I wonder if there wasn't too much here to think about what might be good for government agencies and too little about what might be easier for the citizens of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u36	Mr. President. I want to start by celebrating a good discussion on this subject. Although it may not be too important to do so, this is an extremely important and long - term case, such as the Supreme Court. A minister entered his speech earlier. There are some factors in this that might be inconspicuous and will definitely be considered in the Committee. But I wanted to start by saying something. paritaprevir The Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson with regard to Article 5. It's a little weird when you read it together like that. I'm not law-trained any more than what. A senator, but I can't understand this any other than the contrast, i.e. that, on the other hand, a husband and wife can have the same legal home as the one allowed to register it locally. The logic in this is a little strange. This seems to be going contrary to each other. What I really wanted to come in on, and at the same time agree with what happened. paritaprevir The village of Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson, as well as other people who have come up here to discuss this matter, is about children's legal home. I'm sorry this opportunity isn't new to change it. As a minister came in, as indicated in the report, the committee considered desirable that this was clear and that children were enabled, in effect, to have two legal homes so that the right of parents and children was completely clear. I feel like we're missing out there. Although it means a small amount of money for institutions and rurals, I think it's no more than we should be able to figure it out. I hope that the committee will consider this and see if there is any reason to take advantage of the opportunity and change this, and then change the children's laws along the way and look to them, for example. The Icelandic community, or local community, itself on the implementation of the part of their business and causing problems according to the report. This is a big interest, especially for the children, that I think it's worth spending a little time looking at it better, but not just throwing it off the table because we don't bother to get into the situation. Sometimes matters are just important that they are worth the effort.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u37	A respectable president. On one occasion, a member of the Senate said that he was not going to extend the discussion but that he extended the discussion. I have to come in to what's been mentioned here and ask for some of the other things. Councilmen in exchange for children's legal rights, i.e. that children can have two homes. Parents'rights to their children may vary depending on which side a child has a legal home if his parents no longer live together or have even lived together. And even though there is mutual custody, and even if the child is once a week with each parent and both parents in perfect agreement with each other and there is no disagreement with the child, this still causes a parent's rights to differ depending on the details of the child's legal home. As I mentioned just at the end of my final talk, a present - day servant gave the highest. Minister of the state of the state to report to the 145th Parliament on the equal structure of children living in two locations. It covers the possibilities in these areas. One idea is the one that is probably most common in the discussion, i.e. that children can have two homes. It seems simple and only looks like a single piece of SQL orders to the ordershells for the nerds like me, but then it turns out it's probably an awful complex, awful lot of trouble, and it's causing a lot of confusion and it's terribly costly and so on. I'm not going to trace to the evidence that is involved in the report, it's going to show up, but maybe it's not the most complicated phase based on how the list is stored at the Iceland National Book, but perhaps rather how the information would be handled and something like that. As I'm saying, I'm going to have the logic support of the report. The other way, which does not include children having two legal homes, is by adjusting the law itself so that the child's legal registration does not have this devastating effect on his parents'rights. It would have been a much more complex project, but the conclusion of the group of workers writing this report is that it is easier to do so, and it can be said that it is a more neat way to erase the law's purpose for living. Now I happen to get a special interest in this case at the time, sending in an inquiry to the highest level. Department of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. A minister would have studied the results of the group and what he would do as a result. Then came the good news, and I'm going to read here directly from the answer, by permission of the president: ▪ Has the Ministry of Justice already requested contacts from the aforementioned councils due to proposed work on a bill for changes in child law. Every Ministry was suggested to change the law under what might be heard, which would become part of an alliance with a bill for a change in child law proposed by the Minister of Justice. Contacts have now been nominated from each Ministry and are scheduled to operate on the bill in February. That was the very answer that came in February. According to this, work is going to adjust the law section so that this legal registration is not so important. Of course, I'm just in the same place as everybody else. It's easier for me to have two legal homes, two columns for a lawhouse, but it turns out that there's something very complicated. That's why it's gone this way. There are, however, some rules and laws that need to be reviewed. These are listed below, 8,2.4 on page 8. 78 of the report. The report was presented to Council 145. Here, though, is a list of some of the laws and rules that need to be changed. This may not necessarily be a complete list in itself, since the report says that it does not. has to change the following laws and regulations, etc. But as I said before, since this route has gone, she is in a certain way more neat. And as I studied in my speech earlier, I don't think that legal registration or home registration should play this disastrously important role in our general life. But I thought it would be right for me to come up here and make good use of the time I had to explain these issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u38	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for a very extensive review of the report of the Committee and the steps involved. Hv. A senator made it clear that it is not only about the interests of the children but also about the interests of their parents. As members of the family sector, we know very well how important it is for our children and parents to enjoy association. Countless studies have shown that communication and association with both parents are crucial to the growth of children. It's important to ensure these separations. Like what? A senator came in with them is this very often a problem, even when there are no problems between parents. Everyone may be happy and happy about divorce and communication with children, but people always walk on a wall about information about children on the basis of legal registration. I wanted to ask you what. A senator whether he does not consider this to be a matter of concern to children's well - being that this is to be changed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u39	A respectable president. I think it definitely matters. Of the conversations I have had with people who have a child with another person who lives in another place - in fact, I usually only talk to one person - parents who have never been married and who have never been interested in them. It's all moody. There are no problems. There's no difference. Everyone agrees on what school the child should go to, and everyone agrees on everything. But every now and then, you have to deal with the system, and the computer says no because there's the wrong parent there or you can't get the kid there or file it there or anything. It lives in at least, or at least there is a chance, for some present that is unnecessary. I don't think there's any need for this kind of noodle to go up to something more, because when people are put in the position of choosing between themselves and anyone else, and they're just either or can't have one thing and sometimes another, people have to take care of their own interests and their own rights, and they probably do it. I suppose that's what makes them, I suppose, tensions between people who are otherwise in harmony and harmony about where the child's home is. For a child, it is not good for a parent to argue about it. True, it is better that they not only want their home but also that they want it with the others. That won't be necessary. It doesn't have to be this way. I feel that this is another example of how the lawgiver and society tend to preinvent a family pattern, a arrangement that should otherwise be dedicated to people's privacy, though we may need to keep it in order, as well. A senator correctly mentions that the child's rights are at stake. They're also a public interest to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u40	Mr. President. I'd like to start by taking my mind off for a second. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson's son. I know examples of parents who, like cog. An elder brings up an example, spends time together with a child without ever having a relationship, and he only rejoices in it. At school, in Mentor, and so on, a legal parent automatically gets access to all the information in school, but I know the example of the other parent who had a serious problem getting access to that information. We need to make either a change to let the home be controlled so much or to have a home registered in both places. It would then have to be enough to have a bloodparent, or something like that, which may be too complicated to get into here, have the right thing to do. In the ground, we're kind of violating the child's rights. At the end of the conversation, a senator spoke so beautifully - the rights that are number one, two, and three in this matter - and the rights of parents to associate with and information about a child they truly have and even debate over. I wanted a second question. Senator: Is not the Lawgiver simply obliged to respond?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u41	A respectable president. Yes, I do. In fact, I feel that the legislature is obliged to a number of things that he doesn't take care of. I'm not going to start with the long list. As in so many others, the arrangement we have in this matter always has this overtone of purpose; purpose in how people in general benefit their lives. Of course, it's not from the evil government or lawgiver's mind, it's just because when we're going to do something good, like ensuring people's rights to their country society, we have to build it on the law. Laws are such that they are written down, and when you write down something, it will only be changed if the lawgiver intervenes and changes it in advance of regulations and the like. No matter what happens, we always put people in a box, whenever we discuss rights and so on, inevitably. It is not evil thinking. Rather, it is the nature of having a system to work for people with varying degrees of variety. It's so special with foreign languages. It's like this with a prison case. That's how it goes with everything that concerns people's interests, rights and responsibilities. However, I always feel that the lawgiver has the most responsibility in ensuring the rights of citizens to himself, i.e. that lawgivers do not always use personal interest and privacy standards to try to build these systems. Sometimes it does. It may very often be necessary, but not always. I don't think it needs as often as it is now. One thing I don't think we need -- count, I'm not 100% sure - is to build these rights of children on a certain address when custody is common. I think this is probably the biggest problem that parents have when it comes to trading farms, i.e. To strive with the State, not with each other, or to divide the population as an object. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u42	Mr. President. I reiterate what I said in return to the highest degree. Minister, how happy it is that this matter is being addressed primarily to the authority of married couples to have their own legal home if necessary, and in itself there is no reason for the Lawgiver to repair it specifically. We are well - aware that in recent decades and decades, society has changed dramatically. People are to be free to go to bed together, to marriages, or to other matters, as seems acceptable to them. But at the same time, I reiterate what I mentioned in return to the highest degree. Minister. I am so disappointed that the issue, which may have been the highest in the discussion of the registration of a home, is the possibility of changing children's home. When we talk about a changed society, the dominant arrangement for divorce or separation is that of parents with a common basis. At the same time, however, we know that there is a big difference between parents, even when there is a good agreement, when it comes to custody or custody with children, depending on whether a legal home is registered in a parent or not. It is rather humiliating to even apply for the permission of the parent's legal home for access to various information and things already set out in the law to be heard by the law at law for decision making, such as health care decisions, school registration, and basic school registrations, and other matters that the lawgiver today assumes that a legal institution can make one decision in spite of common custody. It's been called after a long time of change. For some reason, the lawgiver is desperate. Sometimes I wonder in this context, and why. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek came in fine, for which law was written. Are they written for the system? For the people who are supposed to work by them? This is where I think it's typical that the system is being written laws. This is something that is convenient for a national file, a convenient for the system to operate. The discussion of changing law centres into a paper on this bill is, for example, ... becauseit'sa big deal for rurals to work on. There is no question about how much the parents, the people, are interested in, and whether any additional work is not to be done in order to create legislation so that it can go before both societies and, above all, those who are to use the legislation, i.e. The parents or people who are signing up their home. In this context, it is also helpful to bear in mind that it is certainly right to the highest degree. The minister mentioned, the establishment of this bill, is based on a synonym adopted here at the Council of the autumn of 2016. However, in this context it can also be noted that the General Assembly agreed with the 2014 Parliament's proposal to handle the importance of changing parents or children in which parents share custody. A committee was then appointed by the Minister of Internal Affairs, which concluded that I believe in 2015. This committee, with permission of the president, suggested the following: To balance the status of parents who share custody of children and decide to bring them up together in two households, the staff suggests that there will be a change in child law. There will be a new provision as a home to divide a child's home on the basis of parents'established agreement to meet certain criteria, guided by the child's interests. The status of a child will include a number of proper effects, including decision-making issues for a child as well as a child's implementation. Other suggestions are there to make it clear how to handle this carefully. It is good to bear in mind that this is a case in the custody of a united state of state, far from the approval of this Parliamentary proposal for 2014, the report submitted 2015 and the synony proposal referred to in this bill approved by the 2016 Parliament. It is not until about a year ago that the Ministry was replaced. You ask yourself: " Isn't the cooperation within a former joint ministry better than not to be able to combine the work with these two important issues and write one legal bill so that it would be taken once and for all? They have been waiting a little longer for the decision to change a couple's legal home, but they have changed their marriages, and I think that I have quite a lot more interests at stake there, with respect for the interests that a husband and wife can have each other's home, which I consider very important and in the spirit of equality, that the possibility of being there is certainly. This is something that has been called after a long time, something that would greatly correct the situation of parents who do not have a legal home. We know that there may be men primarily whose motherhood is the most widely accepted arrangement in common custody. It has been called for very long by fathers that their share is right in this process, that there is a real balance between parents when it comes to custody and training children in this regard too. I sure hope that's the best. The minister of justice puts this matter in its top priority, but once again I feel disappointed that the matter should not be addressed at the same time. I would have thought it was relatively simple to find a solution, though, as it were, of the highest degree. A minister pointed out, would then be entering child - law that is certainly under the Ministry of Justice. But all I can see is that when it comes to it, it's at the top. Minister of Justice to provide the bill for a changed home needs the highest priority. Minister of Justice to enter a legal bill or new laws about it. It is likely that the problem will not be addressed exactly as the exact change of the bill presented here. Hence, how happy it would be to see that even a committee would be settled and that the matter would be taken to completion and done, that we would lead the work to the outcome of changing children's home, their parents, and their children themselves! At least I hope that the committee will consider whether this case cannot be completed. I think we've waited long enough for an operation from the Executive Director in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u43	Mr. President. There are many ways to guard when it comes to legal laws. I think it's important to go over the bill as discussed here. I have previously, in short - lived answers, established only on the issues of children and on the big issues that have been discussed many times in society, i.e. the right of children to have twice the lawhouse, the home of both parents. If you look at stage one. That bill says there, by permission of the President: ▪ The aim of these laws is to promote the correct registration of a lawhouse and individual dwellings at any given time. At the same time, the law's purpose is to ensure the level of justice in the management of problems involving the registration of a home. If we take a little note of these objectives of the law, they'll pay a fine price if the law is applied. The objective must be to ensure that individuals are enrolled in a home in the area where the person lives. As indicated in Article 2. The bill, as well as the current legal law, is the home of a permanent resident. It also states that there is no right to have a legal home in Iceland in more than one place at a time. With a fixed lawgiver living in a place where a person has his base, usually spends his leisure time, has his family parts, and is at home when he is not away temporarily for study, holiday, working trips, illness, or other similar events. If you wonder about this, both the purpose of the law and the law itself, then it is obvious that there is a limit to it, Mr. President, to comply with this law. Today, the principle in Iceland and in many parts of Europe and the North is that parents should have custody of children, that custody should be shared. At the same time, in recent years children have grown up to be equal in both parents, and it has been possible for a child to live just as well with both parents, and it has been a good thing for parents to try hard to live in such close relationships with each other that their friendships or school classes of children are not affected. Even so, many believe, that a child can live his normal life with his friends and in the school they are in despite the double estate. How does this feel about the law and the Lawgiver? Lawhouses should be the place where the person has fasted. A permanent home is where the person typically spends leisure time, where the person has his or her share of home and where he or she sleeps. How does this work out when a child lives completely equal to both parents? Clearly, then, the parents of a child whose child is equal to him are committing crimes every day by not checking the child in his place. If we look at these songs a little bit more then we can see in the bill, in 17. saying, "There is a law of punishment." I'll be able to read it, with president's permission: In accordance with these laws and regulations, guilt may be involved unless there is a greater penalty according to other laws. Mr. President. I don't quite understand how the lawgiver sees it in the case of children because it's obviously not the law for children who spend the same time in two places. There the lawgiver, and the lawgiver must always reflect the community and what is going on in our good society, to build on some impossible option in his writing, that it is forbidden, that it is not permitted to have a legal home in more than one place at a time. How can that be when reality is different? The reality of children and children in many parts of the world is that they live in two places. It's also been shown, Mr. President, that it's good for children. It is good for children whose parents have decided not to live together to feel that their parents can at least agree to work together to raise their children. What does it matter, Mr. President? Yes, it is important to know where a child is registered in a legal home. A- force 28. A child's law says exactly that when it comes to a common premeditation, parents who cooperate with a child will make all major decisions that concern a child. If a parent does not live together, he or she has a legal right to make significant decisions about the child's everyday life, such as where he or she should live within the country, i.e. A parent can move anywhere within the country, from the school district that had previously been agreed by parents, choice of elementary school, choice of daycare, usually or necessary health care, regular activities, and things. All of this can be decided by the legal parent in the power of the authority. However, parents who work together with them should always strive to consult before the outcome of these matters. However, this is so that it inevitably creates a complete balance of power between these individuals, these parents, who have decided to stick together to their children. This is because the system, the lawgiver, has decided that it is impossible. In my work as a lawyer, I've had a lot of work to do with these cases. For years, I have found how much scourging this situation can produce, the situation that one parent has so much power over the child, no matter how much he or she can live with both parents. This is an inconsistencies, and often the one who has the power is tempted to be less cooperative because simply the person knows that he has the power to make all the decisions that are important in the child's affairs. In the case of child reforms that are often discussed in the case of twice the child's legal home, this is now increasingly relevant, simply because child - welfare has been significantly reduced in recent years and very few who enjoy child benefits. However, there are yet other factors, e.g. is about students, rent payments, and the things that are important when a man must have a full home for all his children, even though that is only half of his time. There are other principles in this bill that I just want to think about. In the 5th. is spoken of as a legal home for a couple and of registered living together. It speaks of a husband and wife having the same legal home, yet it is allowed to be registered in their respective homes. A man wondered, and now it would have been good for him to have the Icelandic philosopher and the grammar man. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, here to wonder how this is so based on the words, i.e. that a husband and wife should have a legal home in the same place, but they are allowed to register their legal home in the same place. It's in one and the same line on the bill. You're wondering if this will hold your mind. I would also like to ask myself, " How do I view the foreign citizens coming here and building upon their license to marry? ' To this day it has been so much that if two people temporarily move to their rural society as they sometimes have to do because of work, or if one person has to move for foreign education temporarily, the other person will without delay lose his residence in Iceland because the U.S. National Institutes and Icelandic Governments believe that a person cannot build his permission to live in Iceland unless a husband and wife live in the same place. Therefore, it would be nice to know whether the 5th law should be used. G., on the authority of a couple to sign their legal home separately, apply exclusively to Icelandic citizens, or whether foreign citizens who are here on the basis of family partnerships, on the basis of marriage, can also write on this law, or whether the Icelandic government will continue to employ the means of immediate relics when a husband and wife are temporarily with each other in their place. It can be difficult for a person to apply all these laws, especially legal laws, because in law - abiding laws, he says that he should have a legal home in the place where he has fasted, where he spends most of the time. It also appears here at 2nd. Section 3. that it is permitted to enter a temporary legal home in registered homes, in staff camps and similar facilities, with permission for the operation to be performed. You also wonder about these foreign citizens, what will happen to them. Can foreign citizens living on a marriage permit with an Icelandic citizen, or citizens who have permanent living permits in Iceland, go and work and live in labor camps outside their local or rural facilities? Or the person may go to a residence temporarily and thus live away from home, family, etc.? It would be nice to know that I'm not covering that in the paper with this bill. I'm going to make this work for this second interesting bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u44	A respectable president. When I woke up this morning, I wouldn't have thought of being present as much and interesting a discussion of bill for a lawhouse and residence as it really is. Clearly, there is more to this matter than you think at first sight. I'd like to come on for a second. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson came in earlier. That's the question we should always ask ourselves when discussing national and public registration issues at all times: What is the need for the registration? Without necessarily having any research to support the claim, I imagine that the registration of Icelanders is greater than amongst nations. This is what we know, who are old enough to have had dealings with video stores. I think that few countries would have accepted that no one could take a tape without using their social security number. Similar data from the public in other countries are often valuable goods that people think are well - founded. Similarly, I believe there is good reason to discuss whether the State should keep a record of people's beliefs as in this country. It is something that other countries would think twice in view of the experiences they have had in the past but is justified here on the land to determine the distribution of public funds to members who receive attendance charges through the state. It seems the same with the accurate registration of people's areas. It's practical. This has a pragmatic purpose, a purpose that rural society can organize itself, and services can be performed only in the past. But when I listened to what I heard. Gunnarsson I looked up the law on address, No. 95/1936, and I wondered if the Senator may have been describing his view that we should go back to the simpler time when the law on the address reflected the need for rural society to know who lived within them. In 1st. Their law required that anyone who stayed in this country for more than three months should have an address in one specific place. In the 3rd. and then says that anyone who changes the address should report it to the competent authorities. The article also says, with the permission of a president: ▪ Now you change the address of a person within a prenup or a shop, and you don't need to send an announcement to those in this article unless specifically recommended. So there's the need for an address to be registered in any way so that rural communities can collect their answer, but if people move within them so that they don't influence the distribution of the responders, they don't have to report it. Whether we are in a position to change the law in this way to simple ones today, I am not sure, but on a longer future, it might be something to look at. But speaking of practitions, I noticed when law on law on law was adopted in 1990 that the law said that they could save the work, time, and effort that went on taking careful numbers regularly, something that would have been later planned should not have been caused by the information presented in the population to be something of great value. It's a savings thing that could've let go. Then, if we're talking about a practitioner, it's a natural double law home of children something that many members of the council have brought in here. This must be considered, even in cooperation with the Environment and Transport Committee and the General Education Committee, which is expected to address the children's issues in this context. Then I thought about it, too, when I listened to what I heard. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir Whether or not it is the same with the provision of foreigners and their mates. Clearly, there are some things that need to be raised. But something in the spirit of what it was. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson mentioned earlier is now one practitioner who can use the church's legal home in which it knows the practicalities. There are seven members of the council today who have a legal home in a place whose initials are the same as the senator's. Thus, poets, such as. has a game to write about the highest. Minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson of Syrdra-Langholt. In fact, the forwarding party is particularly well - versed in its ability to be a science. The senators Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gnarsdóttir and Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir live on the one side of Seljujudal and the other, Hondar Street. Whether this righteousness is the fact that we keep an accurate record of the legal status of these people.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u45	Mr. President. In fact, it is difficult to respond after as interesting a talk as a note. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson was holding here first. But I thought this was a bit of an interesting point. A senator came in about how we associate with our social security number. Now we were what? Last week, a senator in New York, U.S.A., attended the United Nations Women's Assembly, which was truly interesting. Actually, I would like to take advantage of this opportunity, with the permission of the president, and encourage the world of Congress and, in fact, the general public to study the information there was given. You can do this by looking for CSW62 and there you can watch all the lectures. They were many who were very effective and, in fact, so effective that the managers had begun to shed tears. I strongly recommend that you take a look at it. - But it's the subject of another speech. I wanted to come into this because my father was doing it well, for all the joy I had as a child, refusing to give up his social security number when he was renting a video tape because the landmark was something that should, of course, not be given up for fun. The reason I mentioned this New York trip we took last week is that in the United States, you never give up your social security number unless there's anything wrong with it, it's viewed as top confidential. I wanted to think about it in a conversation with why. A senator: Who does he think is the reason this has developed in Iceland, that it is something that everyone knows and nobody cares about? Should we not treat her with more dignity?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u46	A respectable president. I think it's just part of a bigger one, I don't want to say a problem, but there's something in that area, when it comes to how Icelands are close to personal protection and how we've grown up in how we deal with personal information. This is reflected in the way we use our identification numbers and other things and is something we need to reconsider, even though only because we are about to introduce a great deal of ambitious personal protection regulations. In view of this, we should examine all matters, such as the bill being presented here. Whether it is necessary to have a centrally accessible record of the legal home of all Icelanders in order to serve an important role or whether we can resolve this matter in an impersonal way, I don't know, as I said in my speech. Although I like to point out that I am at the highest level. The minister of Bjarni the Benediktsson of Benekat had a Bakkat, and Brimes the Brynjar of Níelsson, in Birkilud, and Ólason On Bjarkarth, on Björk, which means that there is a whole collection of poetry, I still pause that perhaps we do not need to know where all these wise men live.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u47	Mr. President. My name may be Albertína, who lives in Akureyri, to keep the joke going a little bit. But I wanted to take this as a dog. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson came in to sign up, in fact, to a community rather than a special home or to some street or home. I wondered if there could be a solution on a children's legal registration, that if we weren't necessarily registered in a certain home or a specific street, we would be registered to a rural society, and that would be the community we paid an answer to, etc. In that way, if both parents are registered in the same community, we could have some simplicity on the children's legal registration. Similarly, if parents share custody, they would automatically have a common legal home, so to speak, i.e. with a home in the same country? I wondered if this might be a possible solution or a stream of simplicity to this endless problem that double the legal registration of children. Of course it doesn't solve the problem if the parents are living in their own company, but that would possibly simplify it, because in the majority of cases I think they have a home in the same community, that's how they usually do it. What does it say? A senator of that?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u48	A respectable president. I think there's a lot of trouble with what the Senator says. If the precise registration of a lawhouse is the reason we need to double the registration of a lawhouse, if accurate registration allows us to create an even more complex system to control a problem that exists, if we can control this problem by simplifying the system, I think we should definitely look at it. If the solution to the problem is to be solved by having children registered in a double lawhouse, they would be caught through the fact that people were simply registered to rural society, it's something I expect the committee to look into. I'm just encouraging her to keep in touch with us on the General and Education Committee if there's anything we can do to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u49	Mr. President. I'm here to celebrate the fifth floor. This bill. I've been listening to speeches since then. Of course, more is involved than a couple's having a legal home at their place. I agree there's a missing article about twice the children's legal home. I suppose that's what. The General and Education Committee will take all of this into consideration. On September 7, 2016, I was the first messenger to make a vote that was accepted. Artists were members of all members of the council at that time. The suggestion sounded like this: ▪ The General concluded to hide the Minister of Ministers to set up a staff to review law on law, No. 21/190, with the goal of having a husband and wife fit to have a legal home in their own area, whether they already have a base within the country or when someone else has a base abroad. There will also be changes to other laws that must be changed so that the objective will be met. Then a minister was assigned to present a bill at the General Assembly based on this proposal of the staff. One report suggests that the current legal law went into effect on January 1, 1991. The bill to them was formed by a committee appointed by the Department of Social Affairs in May 1985 to the wishes of Iceland's Habitat and the Union for which it was thought that there was a need to revise the current law on legal homes that had been in force since 1960. The main reason for the revision was that changing social conditions, such as man - made habitats and habitats, required that the environment be adjusted accordingly. At present, legal laws have kept their place for 27 years. At the time, changes in social status have been observed, as the nation has become a member of the EEA Treaty, a global network and has experienced bank collapse to name just a few. In a report on Article 5. In addition, the bill shows that increasing women's employment initiatives, fairs of equality, regulations in the European Convention of Human Rights, Internationalization and the provision of the European Economic Convention on the Four Economic Freedoms, particularly on free people and free transport workers, support the previously specified change, i.e. the adjustment that a husband and wife can have a legal home in place of each other. Similarly, when this is not considered to be in harmony with the regulations 65 C.E. Constitution to oblige married couples to have a common legal home. Likely, this refers to regulations 65 C.E. where it says that women and men should have just as right. Or a fourth. 66. g. The constitution. Moreover, this proposal takes into account the interpretation that I was going through earlier. There is, therefore, ample reason to adopt this law. As I said here earlier, I'm glad to hear it. During the past few years, people have had some problems because of law 7. The law states that a husband and wife have the same legal home, i.e. 7. current legal legislation. Employers in charge of employees have sometimes demanded that they record their home in the local community where the employer's work takes place. The demands have made it necessary for an employee's partner to move his home to the same community, although his base is actually in another community and even separate from an employee. This situation also discourages an employee's mate to marry with him. So the most common practice, of course, is that a husband and wife have a legal home in the same place and that it becomes a problem that makes it impossible for a husband and wife to have a home in their home. In addition, after the collapse of the bank, Iceland was looking for work in Norway. In some lands, those who plan to do jobs within their borders are required to move to their home of law. In fact, the law was only broken, so to speak, when it was decided to allow the people in that position, a couple in this position, to have a legal home, on the basis of an unscheduled legal rights. This is a very important matter. However, when the concierge accepted in the fall of 2016 was discussed and sent out for review, they included: It's a review from the European Union. It stated, and it quotes the Union's policy on the relationship as follows: It should be applied to the rapid review of a law-or-law and to adjust the registration of a structural exchange. This work will focus on strengthening the country's union status in the registration process and reducing the risk of incorrect or incomplete social registration. At the same time, all designated households will be guaranteed to be in accordance with local society's organization. The European Union stressed that this review called for, but it would have carried on. This bill would be one of the steps, even though everything that had been called would not have been met. Farmers have a very rich interest because they have a well - documented population registration. It must always be clear what rights the local community can require. All these gray areas that have come into existence should be avoided by the law being completely out - of - date. A respectable president. I can only be glad that the bill is now setting up what the General agreed to hide. Minister to act. It follows one and another on the bill, which will be carefully considered on the committee. As we have seen in the discussions today, there is something else that is missing, especially in children's positions, that they can have a legal home both of their parents in two places.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u50	Madam President. Of course, here it is a very important and important matter to discuss, basic things that can be called. I'm here to concentrate especially on one point that concerns 6. the bill on children's legal home, especially when it comes to divorce or separation of their child's parents, then the bill assumes that the child has registered a home with another parent. This raises the question, Can children have twice the legal home, which is actually done here in a report that says, on permission of the president? ▪ Special attention was given to children who live equal with parents who share custody and who are not married or who may have twice the legal home. It is also reported that this was assessed in the preparation of this bill and that at this evaluation a certain report was considered, there are two reports from the Minister of Ministers of the Interior as well as the production of children living in two households. The second report was submitted to the Council of the 145th legislature of 2015-2016, followed by a report from the same group since March of last year, i.e. 2017. Then the report says, and I'm going to allow myself to quote it, with the permission of a president: Since it is difficult for rural communities to meet their obligations in this regard, it was not considered right to authorize a double lawbook. This calls for a closer look, I'd like to let me say something and expect it to happen. A global and educational committee is making it difficult for them to see if these problems can be overcome, overcome by the problems that are diagnosed there, that it may be difficult for rural society to meet its obligations in this regard. Thus, a parent who does not have the same legal home that his child does not have all the same rights and rights in all respects as the law - abiding parent, as it is called on the tongue of these teachers, e.g. when it comes to child reforms as I'm informed. Now I think I'm right about it, Madam President, when I allow myself to say that it's the best I know of. Minister of Justice has described plans to start a preparatory work in this matter regarding the possibility of a double lawhouse. Of course, this is a very important matter and in accordance with the social equality requirement of the day, in this case equal between parents, to their status. If these signs, which are attributed to this bill, are attributed to before and are traced to a paper with the bill, this bill might not have been prevented, then, Madam President, would have had the time to settle the parent's position in this regard. So I want to reiterate it, and I have reason to believe that this is a very important equality case for parents such as it is supposed to not live together, so to speak, is neither marriage nor having registered relations, that their situation will be balanced in this respect. I trust each other. The General and Education Committee to determine whether this problem is not a possibility of overcoming these problems that are listed there, without the fact that it is a matter of individuality as to what is happening to the local community, but I'm deciding that this is a very important matter where this bill is and this concern of a child's home certainly calls for a good and a careful examination.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u51	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a change in various laws to conform to transport, communication, rural and regional programmes. In this case, plans are being made for the development of the Department of transportation and rural government proposed to the General as a Parliamentary decree. There are three main areas in the Ministry that lay the foundation for public infrastructure and services, i.e. Transport, telecommunications, rural and regional issues. Plans have been legal for some time in most of these areas. Transport plans may have been much farther away, but in May 2002, transport laws went into effect that required the development of a single transport program that would take on all aspects of transportation, as is now the law of No. 33/2008. A communication program shall then be conducted in accordance with communication laws, No. 81/2003, but a statement by the law's bill shows that the goal was to coordinate the projection within the Ministry, as well as to reconcile it with one of the public plans, including the Protocol 20/20. Long-term policy for 12 years, while a shorter schedule for four years should be set. The 12-year policy should be reviewed every four years, with a shorter schedule every two years. In accordance with protocols and application protocols, No. 69/2015, a date-to-seven-year dating plan should be adopted. The plan shall reflect the state's policies in the community at one time and in coordination with other policy plans and public planning. While rural legislation does not specifically stipulate the policy of the State on the affairs of rural society, a minister should set out a policy in the area that others in accordance with the law on public finances. However, there are many areas in which the government's policy on the affairs of rural society is already under way. A respectable president. I think it's very important to coordinate the project and also create a government policy on the affairs of rural society. All these groups of subjects form one unit, in which only activity affects others. Achieving these policies and plans allows us to look beyond individual challenges, to shape a common outlook and a primary goal, and thus to maximise results. Am I to believe that the bill means to this extent a new view of the policy and plans of the government. The bill includes minimal changes required by law in order to achieve these integration and harmonizing objectives. It is suggested that transport, telecommunications, rural and regional policies will be made comparable, i.e. At the same time, to the age of five and fifteen, which shall be revised every three years at least. This also harmonizes with the duration of financial and financial policies under official financial law. The preparation of these programmes will then be consistent as possible. In this way, new instruments, communications agencies, and regional policies will be implemented that will be cared for the preparation of communication programs and development programmes in a comparable manner to the preparation of a transport strategy. In each of these, two representatives represent a minister, including another president, as well as a representative of the relevant branch office and the executives of the local institutions. In addition, a representative of the European Union is sitting at the National Council. Then the appointment of the council will be bound to the appointment of the minister they command. In the bill, the role of these advisers is set out to suggest that the schedule for the minister should be developed to his emphasis. This emphasizes that the emphasis of the minister should be placed on the basic work of this counsel, and this is a minister who provides final suggestions on the plans proposed to the General Assembly. The new bill is that the government policy on the affairs of rural society should be developed in a specific programme in line with other estimates in the field of transport and rural government. This policy will be taken together in one formal program to ensure harmonization and coordination, especially if there are other areas of plan. The European Union has declared its joy with its plans. It is not expected that the government's specific advice should be prepared on the issues of rural society but on the preparation for the decision made by each minister in agreement with the European Union and the national community. Pledge it from the speciality of this group of paintings. The bill contains general guidelines for consultation with both key stakeholders and the general public, which replace the older regulations for a specific special consultation in each field. While aims are to increase consultations from what is now being developed, opener regulations suggest that the arrangement of meeting may be adapted to the need and emphasis at any given time. A respectable president. I've been explaining the subject of the bill. Active policy measures are essential to progress. I believe with the bill there are major steps in ensuring clear and consistent policy measures in these important issues. In that way, I suggest that the bill be after this discussion referred to why. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u52	A respectable president. I hope to the highest. A minister and an audience can help me to understand this matter a little better. It has now been shown that transport plans will not be submitted until the fall. It's disappointing, but it's just like the highest. Minister decides. I've just a little loose through the bill but I'm wondering, with this matter in particular, what would happen if the highest. A minister would have to answer exactly what effect, now I actually say a little indiscriminately, this will happen to have certain projects. There are expectations for a number of projects. I mention, like, the Waternes Way north of Hahmong, which is completely unsurpassed. There tourists go around, and only one picture of him is needed to see how funny he would be if it wasn't so painful to see him. Another thing I can think of is the T-H way through Chef Forest in the West and stuff like that. During a brief review of the bill, I don't quite understand the context. I understand this so that it enables authorities to integrate tasks and plan better, or something similar. But I'd appreciate it if I did. A minister might answer me like a private voter. How does this affect the way in my community?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u53	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. I think the answer would just make me happy. A senator, that this bill is about that, in this case, the administration is to integrate its plans, integrate it with official financial legislation so that we are making long-term plans. The bill is primarily about the construction of our work to make sure that we have the tools to ourselves and to match them with different kinds of lawsuits under the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs. In itself, we are in the process of creating the right form for us, and then we put forward plans that have been further developed by the relevant policy, the transport strategy, the communications board on a communication plan, the regional planning, to a consistent time, i.e. 15 years of age, but a five - year schedule of action, which is then the same as we have known about a transport program that has actually existed for four years and 12 years. They're making their work here first place in the world. That's what the bill is about. I would have thought it was. A senator would be interested in our seeing for an extended period of time and to ensure that the European Commission's work was clearer. Since then, there has been no suggestion, either in a transport program, in a communication plan, or in a community plan. They will then be prepared in agreement with all of these members that the Ministers will be working before they will be submitted to the council as an arrangement for Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u54	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. As you can see from even a very short review of the bill, it's not about individual projects. If I understand the highest. Ministers are correct, perhaps more lengthy, then this reduces the problem of putting things into tasks that may be determined in other places, reducing the likelihood of inconsistencies, and the daily issues called trouble delays the performances of otherwise desirable. I'm asking the highest. Minister if I'm correct.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u55	A respectable president. Yeah, well, I guess you can just say it in human languages that this will help reduce trouble. But the purpose is to create a coordinated system, and I expect the performance of other schemes to start looking to that conclusion. Of course, the Department of Transport and the State Department is involved in its efforts to produce plans, by planning, perhaps more experience than many others in this type of work to work on. As I think I've put it so well in my speech, I'm going to try to find it, in the final words, that active policy lays the basis for progress and the more we take care of the policy and to-dos and it's guaranteed that a pre-ordained system has been passed before we make decisions about individual projects or their activities, the more likely they are going on in an efficient way. Of course, since this matches the financial agenda, this is also true in this field and is to ensure that the plans made by the government are in harmony with the financial programme that is in force at any given time so that we do not become involved in what we have at times been in during the council, to agree on a one - day transport program, and then to a few weeks later, financial or financial strategy that is out of harmony with the previously approved transport programme.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u56	Madam President. I'd like to start by celebrating the entire bill, especially the natural issue, to look for a longer time in government strategy, and especially where the review period is also shorter. I think this will work on the basis of a much more targeted period of time, as well as a shorter time, so to speak, by setting up an action plan and other such. Madam President. The bill promises a lot of good things. However, there is one thing that interests me, and I wanted to ask the highest. Ministers in and out of the councils that are proposed in regional and telecommunications. I wanted to ask questions about communication. It lists the management of a telecommunication fund that will have with the financial side to do, if I understand this correctly, the task management of the telecommunications fund, and put it into the telecommunications board that is to be carried out in accordance with the approval of the minister, etc. I wondered if it wouldn't be simpler - if this is what I suspect about the command of the telecommunication board, i.e. that a minister have his deputies inside there - changing the management of the telecommunication fund and remaining with the project administration inside, or putting down the management board of the telecommunications fund. Does this make it necessary to control the telecommunications fund?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u57	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for both the inquiry and good words toward this bill. I think it's true that it has a new tone in the long-term policy framework. Regarding the telecommunication fund, it has been his job to establish a basic service. The biggest project in the last year is the national campaign for light - related Iceland, hopefully ending 2020, when we have achieved the success of connecting 99.9% of the country's homes and businesses with a useful competitive network, which is about the best that happens. It would be a little off if the ideologies behind the bill are that we have the same kind of work plan and a approach to our different working field, i.e. It's a transportation plan. The experience of such a transportation strategy is good, therefore, we are crossing it over to telecommunications and the regional policies that we have also worked in other ways. However, it is not to be taken into account in any of these cases, although we are in line with the procedure. I think that the way this is taking place is one way to ensure harmonization in the process and, on the other hand, to ensure that the political policy that ministers at any given time are working on during the time of his work. Therefore, the Ministry is confined to the appointment of the Minister's office.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u58	Madam President. Perhaps I wasn't quite clear enough before what I meant by the question because I have a heartfelt agreement with the approach and understand it well. I agree with her goals, and I think that this will only accomplish much better work in the end. Today, there is the administration of a telecommunication fund, which can be said to be losing an assignment because the project management is removed. Would it not be much simpler to have this financial share with employees of the fund or the Ministry, that the government of telecommunications would be put down, and that we would just have a communications board that had the project? I wondered because otherwise we've got two controls over the same slot. Isn't that unnecessary? Because I have time, too, I want to come in on something else, I think it's a great idea. I've wanted to take that discussion here for a long time, considering that we're looking at all the bills and everything we do with our glasses, asking if it wasn't a reason to do the same with the locals and watch everything with the shades. It could build-up, e.g. has the responsibility to deal with all government plans based on localities? It's just an idea that I get here in a speech chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u59	A respectable president. It's not a bad idea as a dog. A senator thought of it here in a pita. Of course, it is true that today a graffiti agency has to go through budgets with based glasses, but perhaps it has not been so properly accomplished because we have been choosing and making unconventional donations since the release of this legal arrangement. Of course, a structure plan should take into account the integration of all programmes and ideologies by conforming the procedure with all these different programmes is that they communicate and support one another. So, then, regarding the problem of telecommunication, I may not have made it clear that the fund is in the middle of a set project, and I think it would be inconceivable to get people or to order them, whatever the future may be, when we've made sure that the foundation of telecommunications to everyone, whether the fund, the telecommunication fund, will have a whole different level of work and extent, and then we just need to reevaluate it. But under the present circumstances, I think it would be inconceivable.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u60	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a change in telecommunications law. The bill is intended to introduce two types of the European Union. On one hand, the Council and the Council Regulation from 2015/2120/EC of November 25 is about the provision of open access and the change of 2002/22/EC for the global services and permission of users via electronic telecommunications and communication services and Regulation No. 531/2012 on mobile telephone networks within the relationship. Most frequently referred to the Regulation as the TSM, while TSM stands for, by permission of President, the Telecoms Single Market, in English. However, the European Parliament and Council Directive for 2014/53/EU from 16 April 2014 is for the coordination of Member States' legislation to offer wireless communications to the market, the directive is called the RED Directive. So that these two European rules can be introduced, which are due to the international communications commitments of Iceland in line with the European Economic Area Convention, they need to be ensured. Because of this, the bill suggests changes in telecommunications laws, No. 81/2003, and Post and Communication Acts, No. 69/2003. The bill was used in two stages. On the one hand, regarding the TSM protocol and, on the other, the RED protocol. For simplicity, these two inductions are recommended in one bill instead of two. A respectable president. First, I'm going to report the TSM protocol. Sections 2 and 3. The bill includes changes between 24 and 41 st. the law about communication. The rules are to ensure improvement due to the induction of the TSM protocol for non-net space. These are rules that should contribute to the protection of the open Internet. The rules for noncommunication are new. Nowhere in Icelandic legislation has there been a comment on ecology, but the main theme of the term is that all traffic through the Internet should be treated on an equal scale. It should contribute to the continued existence of uncool communications, innovations, and commerce. The TSM protocol is unusual, since it contains bounds on two different elements, on the other hand, new universal rules on the lack of network, and on the other hand, changes in the individual rules in the crossborder rules. A panorama of noncommunication is used in whole terms, but the laws about the rotation are expressed as a law of change. The regulations of the Regulation regarding communication networks have already been implemented in Icelandic rights by the Regulation, No. 58/2016, of the variation to Regulation No. 1174/2012, of the international network of mobile phones within the European Economic Area, which is the continuation of the Regulation in the already recovered category of 35 grams. the law about communication. So there is no need for legal adjustments because of the misunderstanding rules. Because of these two distinct chemical aspects, it is not acceptable to introduce the TSM protocol in a complete way and it does not seem necessary to set specific protocols on the lack of network. To ensure context and clarity, it is considered best to implement the terms of a shareless network in connection with related law on communication. In order to achieve this, it is considered best to introduce the TSM principle on telecommunications laws but to replace the rest of the TSM rules so that it can be fully introduced according to the rules of Regulation, such as the general practice of the introduction of European regulations. Madam President. Next time, I'm going to explain to the RED order. 1st and 4,548. par. The bill is proposed to change the communication law. 81/2003, which aims to introduce CE marking rules on communication devices in line with the RED directive. The RED directive is a new total directive and it also cancels the implementation of the previous Directive 1995/5/1EC, called the R&TTE communication directive and their final communication support and mutual recognition of their harmony. Key changes with the bill relate to the duties of all operators, i.e. Manufacturers, importers, and distributors of wireless communication devices, as well as the new reference that their violations against their duties can be responsible for administrative fines. The RED directive is aimed at ensuring a homogeneous market for wireless communication devices by staging specific minimum human safety and health requirements and pets, electromagnetic field integration and the practical use of the frequency range. This includes increasing market surveillance, especially the traceability of the responsibility of the manufacturers, importers and distributors of wireless communication equipment. It must not be marketed and offer a market of wireless communications that has not met the basic requirements set out in the Directive, pass the protocol to confirm and be marked with a CE marking. Therefore, the directive also includes a measure of protection for users of wireless communication devices, health, privacy of property rights and the rights of consumers in which the directive determines the detailed information of the operators. The CE logo should then be given to the user of the administration system knowing that the device meets the quality requirements made for it. In 1st. The bill is an addition to an explanation of Article 3. a law on communication in which the term wireless communication equipment is clear. That's 4,548. par. The bill suggested five changes to the XII. section of the legislation on communication. First of all, regulations 61th par. the layer of communication for the basic requirements of wireless communications will be adjusted in accordance with the requirements set out in the RED Directive. Although the basic requirements of the device are comparable to those currently in use by telecommunications, it is clear that the controversial requirements now involve only wireless communication equipment, not linear equipment. In this case, the base requirements of the RED directive are also aimed at ensuring animal protection and covering fairly predictable events. Second, adjustments to 65th are made. The law that now recommends the recognition of equipment and the obligation of the manufacturer and his agent. Where a new article is suggested, the duties of all operators, as well as the rather responsibilities of this Regulation, are deemed to be 65 percent. primary measure of harmonisation and the lack of marketing requirements, the product is offered or implemented without having to meet the basic requirements for use and receiving a CE marking based on a consistent evaluation. A third requirement is that, as we have seen, a new arrangement 65th par. a Communication song is clear to the related operator, i.e. Manufacturer, import and distribution manufacturer. The RED directive presents the detailed duties of each party. Is it clear that the laws of the material laws that state the duties of the parties are required to end any violations of those laws? Fourth, it is suggested that further regulations be made in Article 67. a law on the communication of the post-marketing surveillance of the Agency authorised by a thread-free agency to limit the marketing and use of the Agency for reasons related to public security, health and public interest, even if it meets the basic requirements of the directive. Fifth, it is suggested that a new Regulation be set up in 66th chapter. a Communication legislation, with the obligation of the Minister to implement a Regulation which prefers to the duties of the party, Marketing Affairs and Transport, as well as the implementation of other aspects of the RED Directive. Finally, it is proper to call attention to Article 9. the bill, which contains a new provision for administrative fines and makes it clear both to non-netification regulations and to the CE markings on comms. A respectable president. I have explained the subject of the bill and the two Europeans involved and suggest that the bill be followed by this discussion referred to why. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u61	A respectable president. This is one of the things that quickly appear to be important to the untrained reader. In fact, this matter is of enormous importance and is extremely positive and, as a matter of fact, very little need. At the time, the Piratars proposed a clause of equal access to the Internet, which included two, on the other hand, promoting Internet access to all countries and on the other hand, to ensure a so-called noncommunication. In English it is known as the "Neutrality "; it is known as the" Internet. " This is one of those terms that has been difficult for the world's computers to explain in an acceptable way why it is so important. The reason this idea is important is that we use the Internet to do more or less of all the work today, personal and professionally. We use it everywhere in our lives where we possibly can, and we usually can. So when individual companies come up with the idea of discrimination based on their own business interests, they are likely to have a very serious influence on the rights of the user to access the Internet and also to establish their own services in equal competition with others. Now I give you an example. There are sites that are very popular today, such as YouTube and Google. These are important webs, they offer an excellent service that everyone uses. What, though, if you were to think of making a new web? What? Well, of course, you want to have the same access as other providers to the Internet. You want to host him somewhere, try to find the cutest Internet connection, and an excellent host, and then offer his services. On the other hand, if lack of a share share is not available, it is likely that an enterprise will start offering a little more money to get better access, let's say that Youtube, you get better access to the service offered by the same company, such as if the same company offers a online connection that offers a subject or his own network TV station or a network radio station or whatever. This would create a very different setting for different parties, especially new members, who are not going to rule the world with a market share in a particular online service, but who simply want to do something for the benefit of the community. Perhaps there is one of the finest examples of this Wikipedia thing that has been placed on the Internet by interested people and has been driven ever since and is quite an indistinguishable phenomenon. But you can imagine: What if a company is not interested in Wikipedia as a popular person but in something else? That there is something else that you can get more easily? Then Wikipedia doesn't have the same kind of competition. I'm just taking it as an example random, of something that I know is originally founded on ideological purposes and ideals familiar to people, you see, Wikipedia. You see, when companies get to behave their competitiveness, according to law, they do. Of course they do. Therefore, it is important that we view the Internet not as a luxury but as a basic system, such as aqueducts or electrical pipes. We wouldn't accept that if you were going to have a electricized home, they'd say, "Yes, yes, you're paying a little more, and you'll be quicker loading your TV or your car than your phone or something like that. " We wouldn't want it to be that way. We just want electricity pipelines to be as good as possible, as nice as it is acceptable at least, but we don't want these basic services to be somehow dependent on how you use the electricity, what you're loading down or how you use the Internet or what you're looking at, and the commercial interests of your Internet. Here's some good news and bad news. The bad news is that in the United States, there is now a person named Donald Trump in the U.S.A., who usually makes unscrupulous decisions and says things that have become famous. Sadly, though, the fight for noncommunication or protection for noncommunication in the United States has become a major setback. In December of last year, FCC, the Federal Communications Commission, who is likely to be what, a respectable president? I don't know how to translate it. FCC decided to cancel the rules of noncommunications in that country. It's very, very bad. At the same time, the good news is that we are in the EEA, which is a cause of joy today because through the EEA, we sometimes get well - chosen and good rules, such as. As in this bill, in terms of the trajectory, and in terms of the lack of network, such as in this bill. Since our arrival here at the council, the Piranians have been fighting for lack of communicatives. In fact, this was one reason why we came into being. We were concerned about them and are concerned today that authorities do not understand the consequences of their actions when they make decisions on technical matters. And when technical issues have to do with more or less everything society does, it is rather dangerous. And it was probably more in 2013 than it is today, for the Piranths still exist. This equal access to the Internet, as we called it then, as some called, online space, is one of the basics that we can actually talk about free and open Internet. As I say, the bad news comes from the United States, but the good news from Europe. And I love that this 500 million human society, which is the European Union, has gone this way in this case. A good relationship often makes mistakes, as is true of all human institutions, but it has been successful in doing so. I love it. I love it. I love it. That's why it's imperative that we accept this bill. In fact, the same can be said of the Homological Law, which has just come from the discussions of the government that we'll discuss later, and I'm not going to go over here. But it leads me to another factor that may always be related to these matters, perhaps to this matter in itself, only in view of the importance of this matter. It's that I'm not sure that the Republic of Iceland with its future 350 yous. the number of people living in the country would represent the same important changes and rights as the country's citizens and appear, e.g. in the coming personal protection legislation and in this bill on noncommunication. I sometimes tell my friends who are most opposed or have the most doubts about the European Union and even the EEA that I know it personally, that I have been a senator from 2013-2016 and now from 2017 to today, that here we often have legislation and I sit in the hall and votes, usually green, most often I think, with these EEA matters, and think to me, "How lucky we are to have access to these professional and successful, decent, well-do the prime." Well, it's not for eating the bill heads of Iceland. It's just that we're a small nation, we've got little government, we don't have a lot of lawyers, we don't have a lot of people in councils and related institutions to be as professional as necessary. We need to cooperate with the EEA in order to maintain our rights in the 21st century, my opinion. I think it's absolutely necessary. I think that the rights of the Icelanders would be much, much worse, in more or less, if not completely all, if we weren't in the EEA, if we hadn't a chance to record what's well done abroad. I think it's important that we keep this together because we forget sometimes and pretend that we're just here to stamp out these bills based on orders and whatever, but it's really important that we have access to all this law. According to that, I also have to agree that sometimes I wonder how little we have to go through all of this. We are confident that this will be the case. I suppose, basically, they're doing it, at least in terms of manpower and time and generality. I've often felt here at the Council that when we're handling these matters, we don't have enough time to go over them properly, let alone try to change them something, because we're part of this partnership. But, fortunately, when these matters are in here, they have already been working awfully hard. As I say, this is 500 million people, and it is not as if the European Union agrees on all things. Not at all. But when it agrees on these things, I am so happy that we are in this close cooperation with Europe because it is clear what a large community it is on our lovely planet today that is going to lead to the protection of human rights. It's the European Union. It's revealed in parent posts like this and the protection laws we're about to film. This is not to say that the European Union is perfect. Far from it. But it does matter. We have to figure this out, we know it, so when these cases come in that they look so technical and maybe boring, we know that it's not a good idea. Freedom isn't probably. Our rights are not automatic. It comes only if there are enough people in charge who are interested in our rights to be protected and interested in our free and open Internet, that we have a personal law that actually protects characters over companies who want to use personal information. Finally, I would like to recommend that people, viewers, reading or listening to a fine talk from Smári Mccarthy from April 3, 2017, on the same topic of communication. It's hard to say how important this is. If it weren't for the European Union right now, the Internet's future would just be extremely dark, dark. But we have hope. It appears to lie east of the river in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u62	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for attracting the attention of the world and hopefully the public of the whole world to the importance of this matter. I have to admit that when the latter part of the talk began, each part of the talk was given. The senator began tickling a little talk. A senator to join the European Union, whether the best interests of Iceland were in it. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Since we had real influence, we might have more on saying what it was like and still have more access to information and other such. But I'm going to resist the temptation. I'm not going to ask the question. A senator is involved in the EU. I think I'd like to think about it. A senator mentioned the bioavailability of the Icelanders to the Internet. That is absolutely fundamental to our day. To say that water, electricity, etc. is almost as important as access to water. But I wondered if we should begin to view it as almost basic human rights to have access to high - speed different from all the information available online, and thus public access to information. Because today, the information is online, and it is far more difficult than ever to access it elsewhere. We don't have to look to it in structure, e.g. in a transport program, a communication plan, and anything like that, to ensure public access to the Internet?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u63	A respectable president. Simply put: Yes. We must ensure everyone's access to the Internet and good access also; it is not enough that there is a stiltable relationship that is only sometimes if it is not fast enough. To use it to unleash the creative power and the freedom that the Internet offers, you need to be properly connected. It needs to be used to bring large amounts of data very quickly. A simple, perhaps obvious example would be a national photo phone in dealing with the government in Reykjavík. Just like a rather simple, obvious example. But the other is that, in my opinion, we'll also have more to focus on, that's what right we have on this network. Because there is a danger that when we talk about the Internet, people begin to think that there are now only some plumbing in which plumbers need to think, and then the general citizen has nothing more to do with it. But the thing about the Internet is that it's really information technology, just human interaction with modern technology. And that is why all of us are free, all our rights and responsibilities involved in human relations. As a simple example: In dealing with authorities, how important is it not to be tapped? It's all about it, just as when you talk in confidence to a policeman about some offense that has been committed against him. Take it as an example. How important is it that you have a realistic, real, legal right to get information, even if someone else dislikes some dangerous knowledge? That's what matters. That is where we come to freedom of expression and the freedom of information. It is not only the right to have Internet connections, the right is important, but it is essentially practitiony. When it comes to human rights, we need to ask ourselves, " What rights are we going to enjoy and what responsibilities are we going to set up on the Internet itself when there is a good connection to care for such things? '
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u64	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for a very good answer. I want to put it into practice and also out of speech. A member of the council earlier regarding the personal information and the lack of the understanding of the government in which he came in, which could become so dangerous in this regard. We're sometimes a little bit back on the line when it comes to these issues that involve personal protection, technology at the core. It has been repeated in the Assembly Hall since then. I'm not at all. Councilmen Porta and others have taken action because of some specialized knowledge of that area, which is absolutely wonderful and very important for the council. But I wondered, " Count who? ' A senator that we need to ensure a better knowledge of past stages, i.e. within the plot, or at least ... within the Board of Directors on this technical side of the matter? How can we enhance our understanding of the government so that the European Commission is more involved in these matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u65	A respectable president. Thank you so much for the question. I am kind and obliged to answer it. Piratar and I were born simply because we saw much conflict between what the authorities wanted to do and what the authorities understood. It can be described in a number of ways. One is that technological advances develop rapidly, much faster than people can watch. Society then develops a little slower. Fast, but slow. It takes approximately One generation to discover a wide variety of new standards that would not have been necessary in general before technology offered new types of crime, digital sexual abuse, for example. And then the government is beginning to evolve. In itself, it is possible to do nothing more than wait for society to realize and assume that it is possible to do so. The danger lies when authorities feel that they understand things better than they do. The authorities who know they don't understand something, however, are better than the authorities who feel that they have it all figured out and begin to adopt some rules, regardless of the real consequences. The best examples of that are in authoritarians. That's why we're called Piratars, because at the time of this presumptuous freedom, this freedom of information, followed freedom that you could send music to your friends without anyone knowing it or doing anything about it. This freedom set a business free, especially the court business of music. Later on, other business too. Then came a reaction from people who do not understand what was going on, how much freedom was, or how important it was. It began to suggest things like listening to connections. It was actually proposed in its time and to close websites, and unfortunately, there are still some laws that we will legalize over time. However, the way the authorities react is better if they are aware of what they understand and do not understand. I think it will work more and less automatically over the years as long as authorities have decided to restrain all their worst ideas, until society has been able to develop in shape with technology. [[The president calls.]] But it takes time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u66	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill here to correct the transformation of various aspects of communication and, like the driving force, of communication. Prominently, speakers who have spoken before have the idea that this is a very technical matter, but it really is a very important and important subject. I agree with that. There are several aspects of what I especially want to do as a subject and perhaps direct my words to the committee that will be used to discuss the matter further. It can then reflect on its work, but in the United States it can be said in general that it has been built up for an entire century that its spread in this country is the highest. If we look at the story, we can actually say that over the decades, we've had a lot of luck to build the telecommunications so that there is equal access to all citizens. It's very important. How remarkable it is for this small nation in a large country to have lived in such a way, and we have experienced many revolutions in that regard! For example, we've got the phone records of Iceland at least two times, first with what was called the country phone, i.e. with the phone that built up the central nervous system, and then with what was later called the automatic phone where you could directly select a contact. It's been a while since we finished that campaign. It was true about 1985 that we finally finished building a telephone system that built on their time the best technology. Thus, the Internet has also been here, whether we talk about the wireless or permanent relationship and a wireless network that we may have here for discussion. Therefore, I do not entirely agree with the talks given here that thanks to what we have accomplished in these areas is the whole European Union and the EEA Convention. In recent years and decades, we have won a tremendous victory over such matters. I could also draw a side that because of the rule we've had to undergo, we might be wasting valuables in the structure of this system that we could have used better. There's another story, and I'm not going to go into it further here. We also have a good story to say on the Internet, i.e. Based on the countries we compare with in international communication activities and on the criteria that actually measure many of the Internet uses, not only the spread but also the knowledge of the population and the ability to own the Internet, the equipment that people have access to, and then the way it uses the Internet. We went to this complex 2nd grade, we spent most of our lives behind South Korea, up to first place this year. The climate in which I would like to call our ambitious efforts to build a real high-speed network, which is what people would like to call, but I'd rather call productive connections, because the speed is a term that was very quickly hatched in Internet discussions. What is considered to be high today and a good speed has become an out - of - date number in the following morning. General on national access to an Internet, it can be said that we're fine with it and that we'll have it even better in time. The market here is also cruel and powerful. We build the telecommunication market primarily on market-sized solutions or market-ed companies. We're pulling in where the market doesn't want to be bothered. A competition against this market is very great. Of course, this should be kept in mind, including with this technical bill here, that we're in no way killing her. That's why I agree with it. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson made it a subject of his talk, it is extremely important that we draw more clearly our rules, put our arms around what we call lack of space, or that we do not get into the position to possibly end up messing around with the speed on the Internet or our access to it, so it is not that it is this accessible fundamental factor of the community that the Internet really is. Ancommunication has really been a driving force for all of our initiative projects and for all the communications markets in Iceland up to now. Therefore, this is a natural continuation or reimbursement of the regularity of network solutions in view of the fact that, in general, there is a rule of principle that it can be done in this way to the investments and infrastructures existing in this world that new companies can make a living and have access to the structured systems within the boundaries of our homes. The third show I wanted to direct to. The environment and transport authorities are considering in their treatment of this matter, except for these important factors, such as the spread of the network and the lack of network and the importance of ensuring our position in the environment, is the problem. This was a reenactment of order that we have brought in, but it also has a very dark side. One is, for example, It's a big deal. This is not just what many people have experienced in their business with cell phones; it's not that there's a shift in prices due to a wire of mobile phones in Europe; it's also where I want to watch home. We who drive the country's highway system - and some say we drive too much - are very alert to the fact that we drive into many holes in our cell phone system. So I direct the Commission to cover this problem with depth beyond which is to be torn in the bill because it is the reality that the communications companies will post and build a delivery system for their clients. There are some of them, and there's a lot of investment in this ship. We then choose business with one particular company, and then we have to be on that company's mail. We'll only cross-check a pass where they've been built by public assistance, e.g. has been built up by telecommunications funds in several cases. It can wander between companies so we don't fall out on those chapters, but we fall onto chapters where we're jumping between communications companies. I feel and have long felt that it is an inconspicuous poem on our mind not to put a better grip on this aspect and to allow it to come out of the most populous areas of our country that it is built up in a common public network of cell operators or at least allowed a rope between Icelandic customers. As far as I'm concerned, tourists won't be aware of this because they'll come into the country and have their legal rights if we can put it that way. Of course, it's an intervention in the market and a complicated situation, but I think it's so much I know in the telecommunications market that I think it can be solved with reason and with the normal contribution between companies. This may primarily be the point of this bill that I would like to have more research and dive into. Perhaps there is no authority to do better in these matters. However, when we look, examine, and apply ourselves, we may also create creative solutions. It's mainly because of the creative solutions Iceland sees in its face the most widespread transmission of telecommunications or Internet connections known to us in the countries we compare with. Just at last, a respectable president, the people here were very fond of this when Germany's chancellor Merkel said in a campaign in Germany in August. that Germany had to get the place in Iceland's communications.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u67	A respectable president. I only struck by the word "what." A senator that we didn't need the European Union to have structure, such as the telephone and the Internet that we've clearly done very well by word. The senator to judge. There is another proposal for the council, which is very similar. It's related in between where the lack of network share we're talking about here and how much we're dealing with the problem we're having here in Europe, is connected in a similar way to the development of the Internet on the fossil record. Now we have in the reviews the restrictions on author rights that allow computers to read through a lot of e.g. Scientific data, etc. to create specific statistics and statistical data as well as the same. I would like to present the same identifying marks between this discussion and the discussion. In both cases, there is a certain technical development that is unavoidable to me. And we can make mistakes. Clearly, we made mistakes, and we can make mistakes by not taking the step to the full in the Constitution case before the council. Then we'll have legislation from the European Union. We also receive specific European legislation on the limitations of the author-based data collection. It's a mistake, like the big deal is in Iceland. We have the opportunity to do better. I wondered if the senator sees the same sign as me in these two cases.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u68	A respectable president. Hv. In my speech, a senator struck me as saying that I was not always impressed by the rule. But I will only take a few words into account. I say, we're paying a very high price for a telecommunications service in Iceland. They're high because we've had overinvest overinvestment in telecommunications in Iceland. It even appeared. in that we place a far greater number of fiber optics in the most densely populated areas of the country. I think it's a fault. I'm not ready. I don't have a place to do that. A senator, to say that the operation of the network was a mistake in Iceland. We introduced him in this way, as the rules tell us to bring in, we had to do them. That's why this is a problem. So the rules are not overly good. About the factor that took place. A senator asks about the penalties, so let me just say that I have no knowledge or I don't study that matter so that I can talk about it in a material way so that I can find some sense.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u69	A respectable president. I'd like to apologize to get into another subject during the discussion, but I saw a definite link between them, and perhaps the discussion on this subject has shown us certain problems we have walked into, certain barriers that we have come across, with e.g. The confusion. But, hey. A senator said that when foreign tourists come here, they'll wander around, no problem, while we here in Iceland can't. It would be perfectly normal for us to wander as easily as they in such a way as to ensure a relationship. There are complications. I agree with that. All of us should not have to establish a far - reaching system of communication. It's what it's really about, not creating a system that makes us overinvent, like a whale. A senator mentioned that we do this in a practical way. That's what I'm trying to refer to these issues with regard to the writer's seal, the net, and the ellipse. There are opportunities there to do things in a more practical and efficient way for the consumer and, in fact, for the services as well. That's what I'm trying to say with this discussion, to bring these three things together, and not really miss out on the big opportunities we have to do things better despite the barriers we've come across. And at least learn them from them and do not continue on the same path, this will multiply a system that we may now have.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u70	A respectable president. I think it's very important that we're not in the middle of a lot of conversation. That is why I prayed about the permanence of the subject here, since the permafrost matters apply to all other laws in my mind. It is, in fact, there. it was written about the people's rights and property rights. I'm impressed that the conclusion of this conversation with us is becoming that the order of action that was being admired earlier is now just not so good at all. There is a conclusion in the discussion, a respected president. As for these sides as the senator said, this is exactly what foreign tourists are falling into this way we have discussed here. The discussion may now focus on something else that we should take materially seriously, but it is how we define markets. I think we've been living for too long with the definition of the Contestance to a market that has become out - of - date, a child of its age. This applies not only to telecommunications markets but to other markets, since the flow has become so intense that in some cases we cannot view something as a special home market. There's a lot bigger discussion than this. I don't want to interfere with this discussion by going much further into it here. But the reality is that we're both overinvesting and underinvestment, and we're devoted to the fact that the system's not quite good and we're trying to solve it by means of specific solutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u71	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson for his speech. It is not every day that we receive such knowledge about the country's communications during the platform, but I couldn't resist discussing it rather with him, not bad for pioneering for Merkel. I'd like to thank him for coming into the confusion. I've been thinking about them a lot. It's different how much you're in good communication. You even know that your partner in the car has a good relationship, but you don't. I've been asking a lot of questions about this when some kind of telecommunications has come up with a discussion on the environment and transport board, but I have to say, as it is, that I have never had any proper answers to the questions, so I thank you that the Senator has informed us that there may be a slight in these matters and how we can do this, that there is this difference between the public and the agency. Then I guess it's some kind of competitive attitude that's done this. If I get it right, they were competitive as an incentive to build up the systems, continue to develop them. So the question is, Is their goals already achieved, so it is safe to relax the competitive views of a wider communication system, come a lot more users among foreign tourists, and these may be more scattered settlements and tourist attractions and other things to be fixed? Then there's a natural safety point. You may be able to approach the matter somehow from that point of view too.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u72	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists him. I think I can approach his question by saying that there is a need for us to look at how we define this market because we have the readings, and the telecommunications fund strengthens the measurement of it, where we speak phone signals on the highways of the country, and we have a good spread card, and we know where the shadows are, and where we can build it with more shipments. We've built a delivery system based on security or the safety of road users. I think the discussion is actually going to have to go through this three-way, because of security, because of the definition of the market and then how far we've been in the process. In fact, I think it's especially urgent that we take this discussion here, because we're getting closer to people who have to be online, just assume that. Some call it self - driving cars, but they in themselves are much more than that, they are vehicles controlled by computers through the Internet to maximise fuel efficiency and maximum safety in driving and other such factors. So I aim again and again to discuss the matter in this way, for it is really bad that we have this shadow on the highway when we are wandering between telephone systems. Sometimes it is the only option to have just two phones in your pocket with each other's communications company in order to remain in the most part of a relationship. Well, it's not possible, Mr. Honorable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u73	A respectable president. Thank you. I'll join you with what. A senator that it is unacceptable not to take advantage of the investment that has already come, and it is only a question: Should all Icelanders who are on Tenerife try to get themselves off the phone number there and thus be able to use this service by having their foreign SIM cards with them when they are traveling? It's also a little strange that it can be done with the foreign maps. This could be done at the same price on a blunder from countries to countries. We must somehow be able to find a way out there. It is also a matter of making a better network of mobile phones with better distribution, security, if we are going to have public support to fill in the gaps, or change the law so that we will use the investments that the market has made today to fill in the gaps if I understand this correctly, that there is something that is going to happen in front of us. I'd consider it the richest, trying to make use of the investment, trying to open it, and then seeing if there are any gaps left. As the senator entered, there are automatic vehicles, and there are also a number of technology that we can see, for example. Farmers in the North have taken advantage of the 5G-technology to have land information on their land, how to use different manures and insecticides, and so on. It is important that this communication is rapidly built up in many parts of the country for the development, even of the environment, to continue.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u74	A respectable president. That's exactly where it's at. A senator concluded his speech; the requirement for better communication; the range of communication for good communication in order to obtain all the amazing possibilities they may have. I think, for example. that the spread of communications is a major environmental issue based on the precise mechanism of communication. A senator mentioned, how we use our land with food, crops, crops, and such factors through our farming. I just want to underline that we must not act in such a way that we harm the competitive element in all of this structure because it is the driving force. We are in this place in Icelandic communication because we have been able to defend the competitive spirit. Secondly, I think the way into this is, for example. in discussing it a bit with the Contestant, how far we can go, or how desirable it is to put it more and better together, as well. A senator traced here, and then left, like a dog. A senator mentioned, perhaps some area in which we should use the public edification form. But it begins to become more thought - provoking, more dignified president, when we're building and maintaining roads, that this aspect of the road system is further defined as a security factor, a part of building and driving a road, that we look after these factors, telecommunications, and cell phones.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u75	Madam President. I want to start by drawing attention to the highest level. There seems to be no longer a minister in the hall listening to a discussion on this important matter. I'm not going to go so far as to be called after, but I'm afraid it's most unfortunate for the Ministers not to listen to their discussion of the issues they present. I just have to make a note that I'm not. There are some things I would like to come in on. I'd like to start with the drive, which is a huge interest in Europe's consumers and thus Icelanders because we are so lucky to be involved in the European Union through the EEA Convention. It is a huge difference for Icelandic consumers, who, like others in the world travel more and more every year, to have their cell phones and to use them both in telephone calls and in surfing, anywhere in Europe at the same price, i.e. without fear of huge telephone bills, as doubtless many Icelanders have had to get after, for example. I'm having a nice trip to the sun. In many ways, this issue is comparable to the equalization of the currency between countries in Iceland. It's amazingly short since it happened because it was an unfair difference between areas, especially in areas outside the capital area that needed, for example. To call state agencies and -- I remember that, it's so long ago, you'll see. [[For example, consider: Do you remember that?]] I'll never agree in this chair that I'm old. This is an enormous interest issue. I remember very well at the time that the getting to call Grandma and Grandpa in Reykjavík was not likely due to cost, and as with this case, this is a huge question of access. I'll take it from here. Councilmen e.g. may be present. with a foreign telephone card to have access to the local telephone service, it's very interesting. The fact is, like, cot. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason came into the speaker earlier today for safety safety roads, that it is totally unacceptable that at the same time as the worst roads are on the West, there is the same time the worst cell phone service which means that the safety of road users, residents there and their guests is put at risk, not only in a way that the roads are extremely dangerous, but also because there is no way to call for assistance that must be extremely serious, and anything I would love to hear and accept. I really hope he takes the time to listen to the recording and discussions here today and listen to this on the Internet, i.e. if it has access to it. [[Take it up: Listen to it online.]] I hope he hasn't gone very far beyond the capital area. You see, this is also an enormously important community. As I entered a speech before, it is all important that we have access to the Internet and that communication over our heads. I go so far as to link it to climates as well, since access to good connections enables us to communicate throughout the country without having to get up in a plane or a car and arrive where we are. I recorded it here a few weeks ago, and I want to use this opportunity to remind them of my indication to the point. Presidency committees to ensure the availability of all residents by committees. The committees often call to themselves experts who are on their own rather than on the side of some institutions, even meeting with committees for 10◯15 minutes, and making their own trip to Reykjavík. It is obvious that we are to ensure communication into the committee field so that there can be a discussion with experts who truly live across the country through some kind of telecommunications. It doesn't have to be a complicated system. It is possible to use technology that is available to all, whether in their computers or even in cell phones, such as Skype for busness or so. It must be possible to find ways to do so in a simple and accessible way. I reiterate my request to the Presidency Committee to investigate it. To make matters up, it is about consumer interests and security. It's about community, and last but not least, and maybe most important, as I came into the past, a security case that I hope will. The transport and environment committee also adopts this role, i.e. to ensure national safety and their access to mobile phones. In this context there is also that as far as I know, once the NMT system was shut down and restricts its bioavailability to such systems, such as those around the Horn Coast, it has not yet been properly solved. There are many things to consider in this context.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u76	A respectable president. You see, this is a very important matter we're talking about here. This may not be a big challenge, but it is very important that this be done well at a closer look, as mentioned in the panel's talks. The reason for this is this tremendous technological advancement that we have experienced in recent years and decades. So we're going to talk about how old people are here, for example, I was. ... witha four letter phone number once. I remember exactly what it was like with the regional division, etc. Two towns may have been brief, but they were in separate areas, and they had to make a little more phone calls. You had to go down to the phone station and order a call to the abroad, and then, it was really fun. It's not that long since things were like that and until 2007 and what's happened since then, but the first smart phone came out properly on June 29, 2007, on my wedding day, it reminds me that it was. That's a long time ago. The reason for this is an important issue, and it is important that this is done well is simply the rapid development of technology. We need to look to the future and know that there are technological advances that will require certain structures to be used. If so, it would not be wise to place too much money in the oversupply of the present technology and oversupply it. We must, however, develop a good spread in the present technology in order to follow everyone else, to follow the development of technology. We need to be on guard against many structures. It simply does not pay itself nationalally and environmentally, in the long run. We must build up in a way that makes it easy to scale or to use advanced technology in the future. Just be a little ahead of structure, that's really important. Little talk was now about the rules and how bad they were for us. But they're better for tourists. They don't have this problem of falling off and on and off as described earlier. This describes a condition that has not been in general or that has not been on the Internet. It is natural that you really don't know when you send something away where it goes. It just goes through the Internet and then ends up with a computer receiver. When you send someone else's package next to you or another picture, it even goes another way. What you can do also technically is make good use of ways are different. When I send a picture, I not only send it one way, but it is divided into a number of data sources that can go their own way. In that case, they do not have to go in a row but go many ways at the same time, which are seen to be even faster. It's a certain way of-homing, if you don't mind me, I don't know exactly what it is, but it's a multi-way or something like that. It's as if there were two cars driving the round road, and another car would go slower than the one going faster after the slower. If so, it would be better for him to go the other way to the other side. One drove the north way, the other the south road. This would make it possible for us to get at least a faster ride than if he had chased the slow car. But if we need both cars, it may not help that much, but the chances are at least there, and we can work that out. In terms of these matters that we're discussing here, how we organize the system and the rules on these matters that are extremely rapidly developing technically, we need to be careful about overinvestment in the technology we now live in, but at the same time, we must try to ensure good growth. This is a balance art; we need to weigh which is more important; to achieve good distribution, in smaller areas, and throughout the world, and to make poor connections between them, or to try to make the same possible connection. The decision so far has been to try to achieve an equal distribution throughout everything as quickly as possible. I think it's a very good decision. But then you still watch that we're parking a double version of these systems that will lead to when you drive the ringway, you're inside each one of the transmitters you've been described here. It is not very effective at the end of the day. If it was like the Internet, the user would only float between connections regardless of who is at the mount point. There's a legitimate agreement on how to use it, and that's what happens when the foreign tourist comes down here and roams the country, he just pops into all the points as if it's nothing. It is, in fact, very strange that a national phone card doesn't work the same way. It's kind of weird. I kind of wanted to leave this conversation at this place. The advances in technology are more rapid, we need to consider that this balance between future technology and overinvestment in modern technology and the distribution that we still need to achieve in order to keep up with the development elsewhere. And I'd like to remind you that we need to work and take good care of this problem. We have a rural country. Then it's not easy. I suggest that we do a lot of research and try to adjust it so that this balance is handled in a way that is not access to the problem and the journey that it is not a problem. A measure of independence may be affected by those who build up their contacts to control their network, but, of course, companies building such a network should want clients to get involved regardless of whether they are only in business with that company or whether they come as customers from any other company, whether they increase their business. I wanted to leave this discussion in that thought.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u77	Mr. President. Sometimes I really care about terms, and I'm going to talk about them. I'm not going to talk about this communication that way, not about extra-hertz, not about the frequency range, but about the importance of telephone and Internet, but about the very short term use of termation in connection with the bill heard in the conference room in these discussions. I'm talking about the concept of human rights. When people consider an Internet relationship to be human rights or to be human rights, I just want to remind you of the definition of human rights. They are defined as this, by permission of the President: ▪ Human rights are the idea that all people will have certain fundamental rights that cannot be taken from them and that they will be in any jurisdiction, regardless of factors such as gender, nationality, and race. I don't think this applies to a network in Iceland, i.e. technical or social rights. That's a different thing. I mention this because people sometimes wave terms in social discussions that do not apply to exactly what is being discussed. I hope everyone's down. Congressmen have this concept of human rights and are concerned with the respect it deserves and uses it in a practical way when we are on the platform.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u78	V.E.G. President. I recommend more of that committee party. The budget board for the proposal for a conference resolution on financial policy for 2018/2022. The committee has discussed the matter since its reference to her on January 23rd. and had eight conferences where the policy has been discussed. Economic and economic representatives presented policy and answered many comments both in writing and in oral. A number of reports came to a meeting of the Committee. From the Icelandic Business Council, the Union of Icelandic rural society, the Allied Union of Iceland, the Organization for Industrial Science, the Organization for finance and the Association for Tourism. Finally, Ólafur Margeirsson was an economist at a telephone meeting with the committee. In addition to the financial and economic opinions that were specifically covered by the Ministry of Economics, the representatives of the Council of Economic Affairs made clear their opinion of the Commission's opinion. The scheme is based on Article 4. Laws on Public Economics, No. 123/2015. It shows that the government, soon after it is formed, shapes financial policy, which the Ministers propose in the form of a proposal for Congress. The laws indicate the content of policy. It should be based on baseline levels of sustainableity, caution, stability and firmness in public finances. It includes public funds, government, and rural society. It should include the scope, supply and development of property, the debt and the long - term commitment of the public overall and the duration of the five - year period. The law also allows financial and economic ministers to propose a resolution to the budget which, in turn, points to a yearly review. It will provide a comprehensive policy of all causes, pay and income, in line with the economic policy economic goals. The basis of the policy is set out only as a proportion of GDP, providing an overall contribution and debt for the public as a whole, as well as a disintegration for state funds and rural society and a conversation for public companies. A core guide in the period is as follows: 1st The total balance of the official period 2018/2022 will be reduced to a minimum of 1.4% of gross domestic product in 2018, 1.2% of gross domestic product in 2019, 1.1% in 2020 and 1.0% thereafter. 2. The official total debt will be 30% of gross domestic product by the end of 2020 and will not exceed 25% of gross domestic product by the end of 2022. 3. Total government growth in 2018 was about 0.6% of GDP since the previous year. Development of the extent of public activity throughout the period will be in order to promote economic stability. I will now discuss the economic prospects of policy making, but there was some discussion on predictions and interaction with economic leaders. Iceland's Office estimates gross domestic production, and all the ratios on which the resolution is based, predicting that in November 2017. Thus, all grounds are based on the projections since November 2018, and they have not changed much in spite of a reassessment in March 2018. In recent years nearly all economics have developed in a favorable way for the entire population. As a result, economic growth is expected to increase over the entire years, although it is reduced from 2016 when it was about 7.4%. Cumulative economic growth over the entire period is estimated to be 14%. Increased exports have been the main focus of economic growth. years. In this area, the largest growth in the transport services and waste has been by products and services trade despite increasing freight transport in addition to the increase in cost of buying and elevating. Business balance is expected to continue to be a positive business investment in recent years. Total investment is expected to increase by 21% in 2018/2023. Official investments are expected to maintain the economy and to be on average 5.2% per year during the period. Outside conditions have led to a lack of inflation. A stifling along with low inflation in major business countries has had its share. This has resulted in a decrease of 1.5 percent in interest from a year ago. The increased demand for labour has been met by the import of the labour force. In 2008, foreign citizens are now about 12% labour workers in the region, which is a higher proportion than when the bank failed most. The success of the economic forecasts will result in a cumulative increase in pay points from 2018/2023 to about 33%. Private consumption has increased, and in increasing numbers, it explains the economic growth of the coming years. Other conditions of the economic forecast are so defined in the initiative. The majority of the material contributes strongly to the success of the economic recovery products in order for the economy to achieve smooth landings following the longest recorded economic growth. In context, we will discuss some aspects of the work of the committee that most of them especially want to draw attention to. Although this required much work for the late December, the financial council paid back its opinion within a legal period of time. An article was published on the General Assembly's web before general reviews were received. The aim of a policy that will follow, often referred to in other comments. In view of the greater part, it also provides a more careful discussion of the total public finances and unequivocally that there is a great benefit in the existence and opinion of a financial body. In the opinion of previous financial policies, i.e. For 2017/2022, it was advised that more work would be put on linking policy to baseline as stated at 6 g. it's a government law. They are sustainable, cautious, stable, firm and transparent. The majority believe that a new policy has been taken into account in a considerable way. The majority of the Council's comments on the taxation of the tourism service do not agree that the sector completely falls below the total value of 24% of the taxase level. The position of the greater part is so supported here in the special transport section. It is confirmed that the deportation of a rural society is improving year by year. Plans of 2018 assume that their business status will be positive for a total of 7 billion dollars. which is approximately 2.2% of rural income. In comparison, 1.2% of the infusion capacity was calculated last year. At the same time, plans are expected to reduce debt and commitment in Part A as a proportion of income from 106% in 2018 to 96% in 2021. 64th. Civil Government, No. 138/2011, establish two financial rules, one that states that the combined total budget for management of Part A and Part B is not higher than the total amount of regularity, however, a commitment that should not exceed 150% of regular income. In the opinion of the European Union, the rules have given rise to greater financial discipline and community planning. Like other Western countries, the percentage of the elderly is increasing from the total population. People between 18 and 1966 years of age were six and seven times more than retirement persons during a period of less than 40 years or from 1975 to 2011. Last year the percentage was 5.3, and it is predicted that by 2022 it will be reduced to 4.6. Thus, there will be increasing numbers of working people who are living up to their years of service and who will be influenced by this trend, these demographic changes, in the years and decades to come. The relative increase in older people is accompanied by greater health costs. The average cost for individuals over 65 years of age is four times higher than the average cost for younger people. Otherwise, health and welfare services will become more expensive. This will increase the cost of social security with an increasing number of albino pensioners, and increasing in number as has happened in the past few years will further increase the expenses. This trend can lead to the endangering of public funds. A clearer picture comes to that issue when it reaches the highest level. Financial and economic ministers will provide a report for the General on the long-term development of state funds, as per the terms of Article 9. it's a government law. The majority stress that this report is being given a careful coverage here at the Council. The survival of public enterprises, however, which received some coverage in the Commission and part of them in this policy policy policy policy: A comparison of policy and policy policy shows that there is one greatest difference between the expected production of companies of the government. It is estimated that their positive birthday combined with 1.5% of GDP per year, 1.8% in 2019 and then increased to 1.9% in 2020 and 2.0% for the remainder of the period. In terms of money, it is more than 50 billion dollars. every year starting next year. The previous financial policy was far less efficient with a positive position of 1.0% of GDP in 2020 and 2021, which is twice as low as currently expected. The majority agree with the warning given by financial advisers and other sources that the release of public companies is not being required on business terms when it comes to the economic flexion role of the public. Governments cannot entirely place responsibility for the economic role of Part A on public property. The majority also stress the need to improve the intelligence of the proposed investments of public enterprises where their scope has a significant impact on their survival as defined in financial policy. As an example of the size and impact of the public companies on investments, there are, in budgets for 2018, all investments in the A-part of the State Fund are estimated to be nearly 43 billion dollars. However, in comparison, the Keflavour Airport's development program is aimed at investing Istavia for a total of 100 to 150 billion dollars. between 2018 and 20202025. Then there are the unmarked investments of large public companies, such as Legislation, Landsnets, and energy supply. Questions must arise on which governments are available to influence aspects of the activities of these enterprises, which most influence economic policies, such as their major investments. There was much discussion on the maintenance of public funds. It was widely held that the maintenance might be more important and referred to the need to correct the management of the policy in order to assess the continuation of its course. It is noted that while the remainder of government management increases, maintenance levels may remain relaxed at the same time. The built-in components of income and remuneration increase income and reduce upstuffing costs and inverse downturns. Thus, automatic fluctuation results in a reduction in the contracture and compression effects of the economic fluctuation. Thus, the maintenance level of public funds is reflected in the practicality of the adjusted element. The majority consider the discussion of the maintenance level and the economic fluctuation of the corrected element well balanced and address the importance of endeavoring to measure maintenance in this way, but also shows the problem of assessing how the economy is developing. To set things straight, the nation's production industry needs to be put in place. In an open economy, such as the Icelandic, the production pen will move to, for example. with labour import or export. This discussion was taken in preparation for laws on public financial matters and then on earth. The budget agreed to support the financial and economic arguments to establish a law order that the total balance of over a five-year period should always be positive and annual concentrations of less than 2.5% of GDP. The majority believe that policy implementation should continue to follow the same rules, as mentioned in paragraph 7. the law on public financial matters, but it should also be done in an effort to measure the maintenance phase according to the economic balance of the corrected element. At the time of the civil law, the matter was discussed here at the council, there was much to discuss. Advantages have noted that the financial rule of survival does not work sufficiently to block the growth of expenses. In this relationship, e.g. Referring to the fact that the government met all the conditions of the current financial rule during the 2008 bank crash, although economic instability has been increasing at the same time. A discussion about a special budget policy occurred in connection with the preparation of laws on public finances, such as a discussion of the practicality of the corrected element. It was decided that a law would not enforce a spending policy, which would make the government's plans very tight in the future to cope with the differences in economic outlooks. The majority believe that in an uplift in society it would be to improve the implementation of a spending policy, although it is not legal, and then involved in a measure of GDP in order to prevent the State spending from working as a charge. As I said earlier, most of the tips presented in the opinion of a financial body that, in many respects, provides a fundamental basis for the discussion of financial policy. But not what was involved in the affairs of tourism. I'm going to make a special explanation for the opinion of the greater part of the tourism industry. Economic growth has been a continuous region since the late 2010, and economic growth is predicted to continue throughout the years. Almost all other economics, such as exporting, remuneration, employment level, and commercial interests abroad, have developed in a practical way for companies and individuals. The main explanation is the rise of travel services that have been unprecedented in recent years. The Commission has taken information to shed light on the scope, growth, and risks of this rapid growth in tourism. Plans for the industry have far more national value today than it was a few years ago. The evaluation of the number of tourists and their impact on economic income and economic growth is based on the Istavia projections, as well as on other forecasts, such as those of business banks. The number of tourists increased gradually from 2011 up to last year in the number of countries that decreased the percentage increase. Yet, the increase in 2017 was large, or 24% more, to the 1.8 million tourists who arrived the previous year. So last year alone, more than 2.2 million tourists arrived in Iceland or more than six times the population of the country. During the past few months, the increase has slowed down, and in November 2017 it went below 10% per year since November 2011. The number of tourists in January 2018 was 8.5% per year. The number of employees assigned to travel services was about 12,300 in 2008, and about 27,200 last year. The number of tourism jobs has increased substantially, but much less than the number of tourists who were less than 500,000 in 2008. This shows that the production of workers in tourism has improved substantially during this period. The registered rental car was about 6,200 in 2011, and about 22,000 were last year. Thus, the increase is about 250 percent over a six - year period. The share of the export service was about 42% last year, which had increased from 18% in 2013. In comparison, a total of 33% of export income last year was used by the share of fishing and aluminium. That the wishes of the Commission were the basis for evaluating the risks associated with a recession in local tourism. This was done not only by comparing international development and with a specific deviation based on less travel services, resulting in a 50% reduction in the growth of services compared to the Economics Laboratory, a decrease in 3.5% in employment investments in 2018 and 2018, as well as a decrease in payoff rate. The results of this abnormality were that economic growth could progress to a higher percentage of the less than 2018 and 2019 and 0.8 percentage points in the subsequent two years. Still, each year the rate of economic growth, which covers 1.9% per year, was associated with an average of 1.9% per year of low economic growth in the historical context. The Ministry's study of the growth of tourism compared to international developments included the view of 38 countries in which the total number of tourists has increased over five years by more than 200%. A number of tourists were also examined for development in countries with an absolute success rate of more than 15% in two years. The results were similar; the number of tourists continued to increase but more slowly. The main conclusions were, therefore, that international travel services are growing rapidly and can be said to travel services in northern Europe. The economic situation of major Icelanders, other than Britain, has taken over a small growth in recent years and the availability of airports in Iceland continues to increase, but these are the factors that seem to have the most impact on tourism. The number of tourists in general seems to have significant increases, but in situations where reversal is likely to be attributed to a situation that threatens the safety of tourists. Thus, there is little evidence to indicate a reversal of international tourism services, but it should be noted that external events, such as natural disasters, or economic events, can easily lead to a lower demand for tourism than predictors. In addition, a large number of airports available for Iceland are on the hands of two airlines, and it certainly increases the risk of contraction in the article. In view of the importance of the sector and its ability to maintain growth and positive business balance, despite the high incidences, the greater part is that the government has made the right decision when leaving the travel service to collect a 24% worth tax. Investment took its place in a committee discussion. If we run back to 2008: When we experienced a bank crash, there was a huge increase in government donations and investments. As the government's interests have improved, there has been a large increase in GDP in the quality of health as well as education contributions over the past few years. However, government investments have not increased, as the greater part emphasizes the change. The structure and maintenance of infrastructure, such as the transport system, is a key component of government projects, and much of it feels that it is necessary to work on structure in that area. Cumulative maintenance needs undermine baseline stability and sustainability. In the building process it is essential to prioritise the implementation and use ablation and cost analysis for this purpose. Investment of investments can be very high, if properly controlled. If successful, economic growth and production in the economy can be increased both in the long run and in the short term. The majority of them are directed to the government to establish a more systematic priorities from what has been done. While there is no specific analysis of gang development, sources of information on the high incidence of the kroner and its impact on the job have been reported. The forecast that policy is based on is, in fact, not predicting the development of the gang. Thus, a gang effect is not in terms of financial policy. In recent years, pricing in major business countries has been very low, and the crews of the crown have been greatly strengthened. These two factors have counteracted the impact of raises within the country, so inflation has been at Iceland's Secret Bank since 2014. These factors will not be considered to be equally economical in the coming years of inflation. The real - life development may be part of an adjustment of the population to the habitat, and the high fluctuations make the position of the export industry more difficult and could lead to economic reversal. The majority are concerned about the successes of the problem, but it also shows that the extent of the tourism service seems to have influenced the level of the business to which the business balance is not negative in spite of a very high experience. Here, much of this is the opinion of the financial Council, which is the most important and most popular reference to policy and gave much of the tone to the rest of the narratives that followed. The Commission reviewed various guidelines from the Council with representatives of the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs. That's where we even came from. so that the Ministry has set up working groups to work on the various indications observed during previous financial policies. They turn, for example. the introduction of various laws on public financial matters. Other recommendations that the Ministry takes into consideration or take sides includeUnable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: Baseline implementation: We carefully reviewed the Ministry Committee that the tip from the financial council is desirable to follow analysis to confirm that it meets the baseline law and accepts both financial and financial policies. The Ministry will make sure that the next financial programme will take more account of the indication. Regarding economic and national proposals, the reviews mainly turned to that, in particular, the tip of a financial Council, that it needs to be predicted by Hague, i.e. The combination is one way from a forecast to a plan, not from a circuit as desirable. In the process of improving the Organization's plans according to the Ministry's plan and with new heads of the nation, the Ministry improved the plan and thereby the basis for the policy. To meet indications, the Ministry and Economic Organization are preparing for the development of a national interest in government interests. However, practical correction of delinquency and maintenance levels received some publicity, and I began to agree here before, a respectable president. The Ministry takes part under the indication in this field but shows the problem of using this target marker for survival. For the sake of financial and financial policy development, the subject was much discussed with the details of the presentation. A comment was made on low-point estimates per year in which governments could land on their own financial policy if economic prospects were to be greatly altered from their schedule. The economic fluctuation adjusted assessment was considered normal in a given range of days. The Ministry has so far not taken sides in this indication. While funding indicated that the rural communities have hailed increased consultations, it was only a short time to use the Subcommittee who work with this agreement. Farmers have identified the benefits of more consultations and are delighted to do so. It was noted that it would be desirable for a report to address changes from a previous government policy. The financial programmes of the coming years are expected to compare between years to years of objective. Then the government's investments were covered. The financial programmes of the coming years are expected to compare between years to years of goals. Then there were tips on debt development. The need to recognize how sales will be used for payment. The Ministry agrees with the indication and believes that it is appropriate to set up the ratings on property sales. [[The president calls.]] I'm going to go to the end of the last chapter of the majority list of policy boundaries and point to a table at the end of the figure where there are sums. The majority suggest that the proposal be accepted unchanged. Under it, the following issue is written. Councilmen: Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson, Bjarkey Gunnarsdóttir Gnarsdótttsson, Haraldur Benediktsson, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, and Páll Magnússon.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u79	Mr. President. At times, I feel as if we senators are not reading the same songs when discussing such matters. As a result of reading the facts of stakeholders, it is clear that this financial policy gets a perfect function of failure. In the case of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, 80 tips and comments were received. The words that interest stakeholders use on this course are large. It is said to be a threat to stability, unrealistic, irresponsible, unsound, vague, unsullied, inexplicable, inexplicable, untranslable, passive, lipophilic, and unfaithful. So I don't see why most of the legal committees suggest that policy simply goes through the same way. Why is that, boy? paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u80	V.E.G. President. Of course, I can't agree with this review. A senator and a member of the committee at the moment. It's a legal committee, but thank you for the question. paritaprevir Ágúst Ágústsson Águssson is here. The comments on the subject were very helpful to the financial Council. They were no charge of policy. But if I put together the reviews that came along, it might not be enough, but this is a very important requirement for introductions. It was said that the Haguess concept may be full - sighted, but the policy must be based on predictions. It was noted in some comments that the public activity had been increasing over the past few years. [[The president calls.]] This is summed up in the criticism presented in the reviews.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u81	Mr. President. Hv. A senator may not have to accept the authority's words. But why not listen to the stakeholders and experts? As I could, we sent 28 reports on this policy and almost all, if not all, stakeholders and clients saw a number of flaws at their policy. Why is the weakness of the council so great that one remark is not heard? These were 80 comments or tips. Why are the members of the administration so determined by private members? This is another example of the weakness of this part of the room. This is also of particular concern because financial policies apply for five years. We're not going to do this every year. That's why it's a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to be there at least Part of the comments that some of these stakeholders have correctly pointed to, whether it is financial counsel, business council, labor movement, sectoral organization, BHM, etc. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, the most tragic attitude is shown by the majority of legal committees today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u82	V.E.G. President. I'm sorry to hear that. A senator sees it. I can't see in any single comment that this policy is going to get a drop score. There are words. Senator. Above all, this has been very careful reviews and coverage of the Commission, and economic prospects have been discussed extensively. There is uncertainty about economic prospects, but this does not change the fact that policy meets all baseline values found in the official financial law. Here we are returning a positive appearance at the same time as we are paying off debts, while meeting the cumulative needs of transportation, building up education, and putting more into the health system. We're going to make things right. I can't see this with those pessimisms like a dog. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u83	A respectable president. Let's do better next time it looks like the # sign here. I'd like to ask you what. Senator: Does a report on baseline, under official financial laws, financial policies? Does this mean, then, that we found a report in the fiscal policy that was submitted to the Generals? If so, where is it, and how does it meet the goal of explaining to us how all the values are carried out? If she's not, why not?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u84	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For him, the offer of Gunnarsson's Leví is a question that turns to the baseline area 6. it's a government law. It's certainly about the baseline in a paper with the synopsis proposals. However, it was shown in financial tips that they could have thought more about what they were dealing with at baseline and that they could have been more associated with the more comprehensive goals. And some, if any, of course. A senator has listened to a talk here and a story on behalf of the greater part, agreeing with the financial adviser for improvement.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u85	A respectable president. The financial policy has certain dictionary definitions of what they mean and what they mean. A senator claims that the lack of a report is a factor in the baseline value. And then I'd like to ask who. A member of Parliament: So why does it stand in the financial conference, with the permission of a president: ▪ General confirms that this financial policy is consistent with the baselines and conditions set out in the government laws on public finance?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u86	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The answer is for Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. Yes, that's because the sustainable concept is also the case. in that we're here to pay off debt. We're getting the weight off, that's obvious. There is a balance between income and pay and positive results over the years. It is reserved for caution. No decisions made on this policy threaten stability. Of course, stability is many, and it should be recognized. It is determined that our goals are very simple. They are clear, numbered, and very clearly identified in policy. And as the transparency is defined in the public financial law, goals are set out in a way that hides none.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u87	Mr. President. One of the baseline laws on public finances is transparency. Indicatively, the setting of clear and measurable targets for an average of time according to baseline values should be based on a regular comparison of objectives and effectiveness with clear scales. This is a definition of public financial law. A law marked by the course of III refers to the total government spending in 2018 by 0.6% of VLP the previous year. Development of the extent of public activity throughout the period will be in a way that contributes to economic stability. I want to ask you why. A member of Parliament whether this law is beneficial, and if so, what should be done if standards show that stability does not continue? Are you going to cut down on health care? Should expenses be cut or should taxes be increased, or should both be done?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u88	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For her question that turns to baseline stability, a Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter As I used to respond in the past, there are, of course, many constantities. We have blessedly maintained prices. There is nothing about our policy that indicates that we are making decisions about the future that will disturb it. The course is thus set, numerically, but in a national budget, in contrast with policy decisions, we make decisions each year, which must depend on the policy of making decisions that do not interfere with stability. Then there's another kind of stability, and I'd like to point it out. An interesting example is that of a senator on the basis of the findings of the industry's Association of Business Association, which focuses on an absolute success in terms of prices and remuneration. It's another kind of stability. But we must always examine our economic prospects and make decisions each year in a financial program that does not interfere with stability.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u89	Mr. President. Now it is repeated in the reviews of financial policy that downing taxes and spending is inconceivable at the top of the economy. There are many comments that deal with this because it will just lead to economic instability, as the situation is now. That's what I asked him. A member of the Parliament deals with the scope of government activity. And that's why I must ask why. A senator again, since I did not get the answer to my question: Did the basic criteria of transparency harmonize? What should be done if things get out of control, what should be done? Should we raise taxes, but not lower taxes, as the government policy is? Or should the budget be reduced, but not increased, as the government policy is?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u90	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator repeatedly asked. When it comes to taxes and additional expenses, this policy is based on the economics of the Habitat. Last projections in March show that at the end of 2016, we have reached the top of the economy. We are in a cooling economy, i.e. Economic growth is decreasing at the same time as the need to build timber. Thus, it is here to try to balance between earnings and paying and entering the infrastructure that all party groups are talking about in the campaign and this at the highest rate. Indeed, a government has made clear the way it should be handled. Therefore, we feel that it is advisable to return a little less supplies and go to this structure because we are in a cooling economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u91	Mr. President. Yes, it is true, all classes promised to take on increased infrastructure, but many of them had a vision at the top of the economy to plan to earn money for them rather than to go on some change that could then disappear. I'd like to ask just because this government is being thought to increase the power of the council: When you read the Commission's opinion and tip from a financial agency repeatedly, the Ministry is talking about the Ministry, the Ministry has not taken sides yet, the Ministry has not decided whether or when. Is it a time label for the Ministry? Was it just a review, the commission with the bill, maybe? Wouldn't it be nice to have something from it? The head of the committee's opinion, and not the Ministry, what is the opinion of the committee mentioned in the Committee? It's just got to come out somewhere else.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u92	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Logi Einarsson his son's question and his mind to promote the council Indeed, we would like to promote the council and tools and tools to carry out everything possible here, but the committee spent quite a bit of time covering very careful comments, calling for a service memo that is often done in committees to respond to the helpful indications received, including a memoir. from financial advisers and from a number of sources, to correct the point. It's a work ethic that goes along with committees. We're here on the highest course. Governments.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u93	Mr. President. You see, that's the point. You're on course of the highest. Governments and then you'll have an objective assessment of government bills. There's nothing wrong with calling on a hearing from the Ministry, but it's fine if the committee considers which one of you is considered to be that, instead of just turning the answers out to the Ministry. Also, I have read some of the reviews, and I feel that over my head, they are negative. We may have come to the point of realizing that if a large percentage of Icelandic men cannot read for themselves, each group that cannot, we who are criticizing, or you who are measuring this recovery.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u94	V.E.G. President. I don't think there was any question about the subject. Senator. But for the sake of politeness, I'm going to take this second answer. On the contrary, I read it with far more positive glasses than I do. Senator. I thought many of the comments were very careful. I thought the coverage was different. The budget is very thorough, and we took seriously all the indications that were presented, e.g. ... financialadvisorand all other sources. I have to say about a lot of what we, the more part, put in here - we'll take under those tips, outside the travel service coverage, e.g. in the opinion of a financial body - I think that the indications that were presented will lead to a much better policy course, policy, financial agenda, financial modalities.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u95	Mr. President. For the council, there is a deportation proposal, a suggestion to dismiss the financial policy we address. I'd like to ask a president why they don't vote for her. If it's approved, then this discussion is unnecessary and we can go on other matters, because there are plenty of issues in today's program at no time. The other, Mr President, where's the highest? The Secretary of Economics and Economics when we discuss the most important document in the government? We're discussing financial policy to five years that can't be changed unless something terrible happens. Where's the bottom line? Financial and economic ministers? I want him in this room right now. However, before he does so, it may be appropriate to make a reference.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u96	Mr. President. I want to agree with this request. I think it's a minimum degree that the Minister of finance is here in the hall listening to this discussion. This is a synopsis, so this is the second discussion. After this discussion is concluded, and it is over for five years, because this policy should continue for five years. That's why I'd like to say yes. paritaprevir In this regard, Oddný Harðardóttir Hardydotir. It is also important that the above - mentioned deliberation proposal be discussed. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson contributes. We see that while the chairman of the budget board feels that the reviews were so careful, he decides to ignore all the indications, all 80 tips. They were so careful that he didn't have to go by one. This is a defective document that needs to be referred back to further work to the government. This is not acceptable, either for us in the position of government or for the board of directors or for the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u97	Mr. President. I want to agree with this. I find it amazing that rudeness and inadequacy are in a series of situations where ministers do not sit and listen to a discussion in their own interest. V.E.G. As a matter of fact, financial and economic ministers are beginning to adopt the custom of disregarding the law and deciding one-sided by decrees in the manner in which they are going to issue the matter and when to proceed with it. I don't think it's necessary that he show up here in the chair and listen when the committee's opinion is considered, whether it's more or less, with references in his own answers to indications directed to the committees. So I think that's why. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson should call the highest level. Secretary of finance, ask him to come here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u98	A respectable president. As the answers just happened, we're talking government issues. Then, of course, I'd like to ask, "Where's the government?" It has to be here to discuss this matter because the policy, as I mentioned earlier, is not explained at all, it is not based. There's nothing explained there. If something goes wrong in the economy, if there's a downturn, is there a cut or not, or is there an increase in taxes or not? This is not being answered in policy. Therefore we need the ministers here to ask them, that they may answer us. I'm calling for the Ministers to arrive. But, of course, it would be very normal to take the deportation proposal first, and then they may not have to attend, would be fine if they didn't vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u99	Mr. President. I may not be surprised to hear that. Secretary of finance prefers not to be in the hall when discussing financial policy, based on the comments made by policy makers. However, it is very strange when we are discussing the government's financial policy that there is not one minister in this room and especially that it is not the highest. Ministers of finance and conscientiously submit to the discussions that should be discussed. I think it would be only a matter of time before we would simply postpone this discussion. The secretary of finance is able to be here with us. I don't see any reason to keep her going. However, I agree with other members of Congress that it would be normal for us to first take this discussion for the deliberation. Perhaps we can save ourselves the trouble with the conversation, especially with the multi-organized administrative point in the conference hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u100	Mr. President. A year ago, when a debate over the government financial policy was being held at the height of the government. Secretary of finance, the best financial minister in the history of Iceland, Benedikt Jóhannesson, here in the hall, watching the discussion. He spoke up against members of the council, nine times in all, following along, and participating in the discussion. I thought it was an example. I want Secretary of finance to do the same thing, come here, participate in discussions with us members of Congress. I'd like to hear what those senators of the left green people here, who found a few things about last year when ministers did not participate in discussions, feel the same behavior of their own Minister and Minister of Independence now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u101	A respectable president. You'll see how fast management can be. Here's what we call a what. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek by hearing what we think and here I am. I just agree with what they say here. Last year, I found it exemplary when I was the highest. a local minister of finance was under the discussion and participated in it. Truthfully speaking, I thought that each part of this discussion would be put in place, perhaps especially the most important, seating. Secretary of finance. So I just agree that I'm sorry, and really, I don't understand why. Ministers don't take part, especially the highest. Secretary of finance, in this discussion. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u102	Mr. President. I agree with all of them. Councilmen here have spoken. On behalf of me and on behalf of my council, I must say that it is absolutely unacceptable. The secretary of finance should not be here at a council hall to discuss this important document intended to be settled. The minister must want to discuss this turning point with us. He must want to explain to us why he is not making any recommendation. He must want to justify this approach. I would have thought that more executives might want to justify the course that there appeared to us here that does not fully understand what this government's policy is taking. They must want to come here and talk to us about government policy. How about that?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u103	Mr. President. We'll talk about financial policy until the next five years that we can't change unless something terrible happens in Iceland. This is the second and highest discussion. Economic and financial ministers don't sit in the room, and not even one minister. I request, Mr. President, that we postpone this meeting, and the president of the United States call members to meet with them in order to review these matters, where it will be decided whether we will continue this discussion or we will postpone it until later. Perhaps the wise thing to do is to postpone it and then accept the deportation proposal as the first subject on the program in the morning. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u104	A respectable president. There was a wise word of reason here. Oddný ItHarðardóttir got a whole new Hardydotttoy. I agree with what has been presented here on the need to represent a paradox and vote on it, as well as what has been said about the presence of a minister in this discussion tonight. I'm especially happy for what you're talking about. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé spoke a little earlier about the need to have a minister here. I noticed why. A senator did not express himself about the deduction proposal, but I make the shoes that he is, in fact, even entitled to this contraption. And it may be that here's a lot more to cover for this deduction proposal tonight.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u105	Mr. President. I'm going to say the word. The last speaker. There was a splicing at the house. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson, Mr. Proppér Prope, to come up here and support us in this request. I call to the attention of Mr. President that he is a member of the council leader, so it is only natural, and the monotonous that when the Prime Minister of the House Prime Minister has declared that it is not normal for us to continue this discussion without a financial minister, Mr. hold-out and call members of Congress together and men in charge.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u106	Mr. President. Hard work, respect for the Generals, trust in the Generals, these are words that many of us play in the language, especially those who use the government and support the government. Now it's as though we're discussing financial policy to five years of the government's foundation. There's no secretary here. The minister of finance is not taking so little time to attend the discussion. Prime Minister is foreign, so it happens. In this regard, it can be said that everything is left in the hands of a man. The chairman of the Parliament's budget committee, which has largely benefited and is worthy, but I find this to be most unfair of all. A government, and practically so it's not present. I accept the requirement that we interrupt this meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u107	Mr. President. Well, it's not that I don't trust it. To guide us through this discussion, a senator and chairman of the budgetary committee, Willum Þór Þórsson. He has directed it very well to a financial committee, and he deserves commendation, even though it is true that he has chosen to ignore all the fine tips that were involved in this fine financial policy. But I feel it's completely unacceptable to the highest level. The secretary of finance leaves his chair blank in this important discussion. This is a basic government policy system. There should be a well - planned class minister here who should be prepared to participate in this discussion. I believe that this was in another way with the then financial minister, the best financial minister in history, as has been mentioned here. He handled it with a great sense of conscience. I know he did a lot of work to attend the discussion here. Maybe at the top. Secretary of finance is not at home. We know that the balance between home and work is not very good here at the council. [[The president calls.]] It is probably, then, that they agree with the demands of those who have recommended that this case will simply be postponed until it is most convenient. Secretary of the budget coming in.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u108	Mr. President. This is the largest case of the government. This is a groundwork for a five - year course. Of course, there is no other direction, and it must be considered a matter of contempt that a minister of finance should not sit in the hall and participate in this discussion. Therefore, I would like to agree with the demand that this discussion be delayed and resumed when a minister has a position to participate in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u109	President. I just want to come up here and agree with what. Councilmen who have come up to make comments on the meeting board. Of course, it's only natural to take the first form of deliberation because if it's approved, this discussion is now totally unusable. I challenge it to the highest. President to take it now. Likewise, if it isn't, I'll agree with a suggestion. A senator and a former U.S. secretary of finance, Oddný Harðardóttir, make at least a meeting break, and figure out this thing out with members of the council because it's not an honor to anyone. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u110	V.E.G. President. First, when a minister has filed a case with the council, whether it was a bill or a Senate decree, and it is recommended in the council, the matter is out of his hands and taken into the hands of the council. When a committee comes to view after an investigation, a minister is not a member of the matter different from any members of the council, it is more prominent and smaller things that bear the matter at the council, so it is said. Then, as for the motion of the government stand, I think there's only a matter of looking into the Senate and finding out what is a paradox and what is a suggestion for a reasoned program. While a suggestion for a logical program is adopted in accordance with certain rules, a reference proposal is made like any other adjustment proposal at the end of a discussion. [[Foreground on:]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u111	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The year's Birgir Ármannsson for this explanation. He also considers it to be the highest. Secretary of finance washed their hands of government financial policies simply because he is a minister. But he's also a senator under the present command. I don't know better than he has any kind of interest in talking to us about this document that he wants us to accept. I think it's normal for us to represent the deduction proposal because there's nothing wrong with taking over a deduction proposal. In fact, the government should welcome her, and she will have time to work things out better. At this council, it is up to us to confirm that this financial policy is a government law on public finances. We're supposed to run it, and we need a house minister to tell us if it's really so that it can pass through a law because we don't believe it. So that we can reach some common conclusion as to whether this policy is above the head of a government law, we must need the highest. Secretary of finance here at the house. That's all there is to it. A minister doesn't.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u112	A respectable president. Listening to what is just as remarkable. Ármannsson In discussions about the President's conference board, Brother Young explains that ministers certainly present a case like this and then take it up for discussion - and what? So why don't we ask that the government, who is putting this up until the age of five, come down here and talk to us? Is that the message? Sounds like it. I think it's a very bad way of speaking, but unfortunately, in the heat of the defense talks being held in discussions about the President's conference board when it comes to the presence of a minister or equivalent. If this course is not made properly, it means that yet another part of the legal code on public finances has become less than it was supposed to be. This council and this government are breaking up this law with unflinching disrespect for the goals they are meant to achieve. It's part of it. I'm sure there's a secretary of finance here. Like what? The reverends have rightly pointed out the highest quality. Secretary of finance in his day is very diligent in speaking up to members of the council who discussed their views as committees. [[The president calls.]] It's not only about following some basic law, it's about being involved in politics. [[The president calls.]] Why is it the highest? The secretary of finance is not part of the politics today? [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u113	The president asks why. Councilmen to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u114	A respectable president. I don't think there's any need to do the highest. The secretary of the budget for this fine evening. It's a monopoly that needs to be dealt with by dechallenge. paritaprevir Björn Leví, Gunnarsson, and this contraband are proposed to the highest degree. The secretary of finance gets this financial policy back and simply gets it better. So there is no need to speak at the highest. Because we're asking him to do it more simply, he doesn't have to come here to talk to the council about it. I think there's a much better way to do this, considering that we're going to bring this back to the government so we can get professional development on this before the case is finally taken care of.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u115	A respectable president. I soon made a count here, and I saw that there are 26 senators and ministers with absent or absent, and I'll refer this to the Ministers who should naturally be here. There may be good reasons for absentness, so I'm not going to say it's serious in this way, but I'm going to direct it to counsellers. I would feel very reasonable in requiring that financial policy for the next five years is well-founded and obviously under government law. If you look at it lightly, just by a light crossing, you will see that it is not. We must ask the Ministers, it can work, so we ask the Ministers about a better report for financial policy that may lead to our missing answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u116	A respectable president. I think it's a role model for the President's conference board. At the end of the discussion, the deliberation proposal will naturally be taken into account, as tradition and regulations indicate. I know, a respectable president. Sometimes I don't know if I'm coming or going when I listen to the positions of government in this room. In answer to that earlier, he complained. A senator from an independent financial committee who managed to break out the context of the committee opinion and said that it should refer to a minister of more and less, and he wanted to motivate us to trust in the independence of the council. So now people can't go on because there is a lack of ministers in the room.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u117	...talk to him...
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u118	All I ask is for us to continue this discussion, thereby respect the independence of the council, and end up with a good discussion of financialism.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u119	Mr. President. It is true regarding a deliberation proposal, it is like an adjustment proposal, and then a discussion about it would need to take place after this second discussion is concluded. On the other hand, it is wrong. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson says that a minister does not have to be in the hall because he has somehow returned the case. No. The principle that we are taught on the Presidency Committee, I'm the vice president there, is this: If you want a minister to be present for a discussion in the case he has requested, you must answer that question. Here everyone is asking for it - natural - in order to have a conversation with the secretary of finance on the matter of financialism that is one of the most important things the government can offer, and it needs to be realized if it is possible to do so. There may be exceptions, some may be foreign or something, but now it does not seem appropriate. The fact that a minister of finance has not personally planned to be at the council to have a word about this, as is customary in this case, his case, financial policy, is very strange. [[The president calls.]] Two things can happen, we continue to talk about the President's conference board and call for a secretary of finance to come or the president to delay this meeting until the secretary of finance arrives. [[The president calls.]] There are two things that can happen. If I were President, I'd follow the principle, and either make sure that the Minister of finance was on my way, and then we could keep talking for a few minutes, or it'd be best just to postpone him for a while. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] But look, I've come way beyond this protocol myself, but - Thank you. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u120	It is still directed by the president. Congress officials say they have a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u121	Mr. President. I can't protect myself from the impression that neither the government nor its supporters see any evidence that this financial policy will be generally accepted. Since the meeting is in the way it is shown, I find that the explanation that has happened to me is very helpful. paritaprevir The bear of the Birgir Ármannsson of Aarver, and partly of that. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, that there is no need to call for the minister because they are no longer involved. I think that it has happened to these distinguished senators to have called for counselers to be present for a discussion at the council. Something's changed in their minds. Senators play the role of Ministers in bringing this up? Can we be sure, then, that in the future they will never call for a minister in such a discussion? [[The president calls.]] Can we count on that, boy? Senators?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u122	Mr. President. I can't get a word out of it because of what to say. paritaprevir Ármannsson, son of an Aargian who deals with some kind of financial shortage in this matter. Similarly, it seems that words can be understood freely. A vice president of the branch office, the Haraldur son of Benediktsson, so that the independence of the Generals is in danger and is threatened by the presence of a minister of finance. I'm going to allow myself to state this, Mr President: What do you think would happen in the North, if we were to discuss something as large as this, without the presence of the Minister of the Tribal? Similarly, I can agree that the former minister of finance is a natural superior and will be remembered for a long time, but I must say that I rather praise the individual for taking the time to sit here and participate in discussions about similar matters. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u123	Therefore, the president is directed to the council to respect the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u124	A respectable president. That's pretty interesting. There has been a clear demand that a minister of finance be present at this discussion, and one member of the council feels that this requirement is somewhat reasonable. I'm glad you're here. But in other members of the council, it can be understood that the word simply does not fit. Simply answer: This is normal. The minister put forth his affairs and did not have to be present. This makes it clear that he will simply not be present for this discussion. That's interesting. Perhaps I would like a further explanation of whether a person would really take the firm stand that a minister of finance will not come and participate in this discussion, now or later.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u125	Mr. President. I have to say, I have to say, I'm amazed at what I'm saying. paritaprevir and the proconsul of the Independence Party, Ármannsson, son of Aargian, when he does not act as a minister of finance to his next five years, to his own financial policy, will be here at the council. He doesn't care what people discuss here, neither more things nor less things. He is completely uninterested in the outcome of this case, which he himself puts before the council. Likewise, I was delighted to hear the active platoon of the left movement, too, recognizable in the absence of a financial minister, for, of course, it is most unusual that a minister should not follow his own case, much less the course of five years.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u126	President. I think it's kind of weird that I have to come up here after everybody's mouth. My colleagues have come up to the highest level. Minister will participate in the discussion, which is just so welcome. Why is that request not just granted or at least an explanation of why it is the highest? A minister cannot attend and participate in the discussion? It's just unbelievable. This is where these arrogances come to be. This is so disrespectful to the council and to our work. Here we are discussing an enormously important piece of paper asking for the highest power. Ministers, come and participate in the discussion. I would have thought this request was probably worth it. I'm just hoping that at some point the discussion will be stopped, and the president will stand up here and explain that he's going to postpone this meeting and we're going to pray to the highest level. Minister to attend and participate in the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u127	A respectable president. I agree with the people who have spoken here. It would be desirable if the highest. The secretary of finance would be at this discussion in order to answer and enter the discussion that the senators are striving to keep on the subject. I've been called in and tried to handle it, obviously. However, I would like to ask if there is any news of yesterday's wish to speed up the budget. V.E.G. The president was going to contact the Ministry of finance about this. But it's a question of whether you shouldn't be a bit reasonable and say as if you were the highest. The secretary of finance is working on the financial agenda, so we may not want to see him at all, perhaps rather, that he is having a hard time with it. Then I suggest that the secretary of finance puts on Facebook to work on the budget, then all of us can take a lunch break and stay in good condition until then.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u128	V.E.G. President. This may be a new government operation, as she spoke of in the Treaty, that the secretary of finance is not present at this discussion on a matter he presents, considering that during the last term a minister of finance was then attended. At that time, I was in the Senate, and I remember it very well. That law says it means five years, unless something terrible happens. There would be nothing terrible if the minister of finance were in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u129	Mr. President. I want to tell you a story. Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, standing still. A senator during the last term - the terms of terms are so short now - came up in a talk chair, at half an hour, and called for a president, but wily. paritaprevir Einar K.. The son of Guðfinnsson was then president of the council, to have a minister in the hall. There could be nothing to continue with the meeting until the minister had entered the hall to discuss the issues he had presented. Einar K. Guðfinnsson of God, who is very fat in this ethic, saw nothing else available at once. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon said: There are examples to this effect. He could, with the knowledge he had, refer to the fact that this was the case, and the president of Congress broke a meeting. That was really cool. These old foxes know how to do this, and they can use examples in their political ethic. But this example is available. [[The president calls.]] The question now is, Is this an example in the case of one or two? Um... now I don't know exactly, but now I know that there's something about 1st. Whether that is true in 2 Timothy 3: 1. ... awrong.? We need to find an example. [[The president calls.]] But there is clearly no respect for the council if the secretary of finance cannot come and participate in the discussion of one of their major issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u130	Mr. President. It's not that long since I sat at the council. I remember seeing such discussions as presented here, where the minister is called all the time. Today, there have been reports of ways to reach the highest level. Minister in here. One might be that we simply invite him to dinner. We could just eat together and then continue the discussion of this good plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u131	Mr. President. I have experienced profound disappointments. I had been looking forward to sharing in lively and lively discussions about these magnificent financial policies at the highest level. Secretary of finance. I guess in view of the absence of the highest. The secretary of finance will be postponed or decommissioned to the council's dissuade. As far as I can see, this is the case with an even further violation of the law, this time the law on public finances.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u132	A respectable president. Because we share stories of the best financial advisers in history, I pause to remind myself of Steingrímur J. Sigfússon as in my day. Three times a financial minister gave up a financial bill. According to the World Bank, 75 times in this discussion, whether in the 1st or 2rd. 25 times every year, he went to the Pontu to discuss this key question with the members of the council. I don't think it's a good idea to cry out in front of a hat. As noted, I have no doubt that ministers are present at a discussion of their issues, especially when they have a heavyweight problem. Whether it's a financial minister or someone else, they owe the Senate the respect of being here and listening to us. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u133	A respectable president. I always find it a bit interesting to listen to what's happened. The members of the Independence Party, on the other hand, speak of the respect of the Generals and of the independence of the Generals as they are probably those most opposed to making some recent attempts to make the General Assembly independent, e.g. ... withan idea that I personally approve of, a minority government. But, no, of course, you're going to truck it through on the rest of it. As always, as things seem to only work in Iceland. Talking about the decision that the Council's independence makes this the highest priority. The minister of finance doesn't see it proper to come here and talk about his case, it's just nonsense, a respectable president. The reason for doing so is the highest reason. The secretary of finance isn't showing up here. On the contrary, considering the independence of the council, this is how it works. Independence party. The government throws things in, and the Council stamps them out. That's how it works. So much about the independence of the Generals, let alone respect. Speaking of respect, don't you think it's a respect for the council to come here and talk about the matter itself? [[The president calls.]] As noted, the highest have been found. Secretary of finance is making an issue with people who have opinions about the matter. [[The president calls.]] Speaking of the honor of the Generals during the course of time. An independent party behaves like this, all the time, with the council, there's some kind of counterargument at best, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u134	The President still reminds us of the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u135	Mr. President. I agree with what has been presented here and especially in discussing the respect of the council. I'm very interested in improving the respect of this institution, it's filled with need, and what we're looking at up here, of course, is in the opposite direction. It is only natural that the minister of the seminary is here and other ministers too. I mention, for example. that in this financial policy we are involved in is expected to increase the intensity of infrastructure maintenance and structure, e.g. Transport, however, the text of the policy is unclear in this respect, both in terms of the scope and in terms of the government, can contribute to these important implementations. That is why it would also be good to have the highest power. The secretary of transportation and rural government would be here, not to mention a prime minister who has fought to improve the respect of the Generals and has appointed a committee of them. [[The president calls.]] It would be curious to know if she agrees that this is an improvement in the respect of this institution by the absence of ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u136	President. I just want to come back up here to reiterate my opinion to the highest degree. The secretary of finance should be here in the hall, and actually I think the government should be in the hall. I wondered: " Do they not trust in discussing these financial policies they present, financial policies to five years of age, a dating document for the government? Are they ashamed of this course, not relying on it to discuss it with the council? I'm just asking. [[Up front.]] Yes, it's a question, is it just fine that more of the council sitting here right now will be allowed to change this course to reflect the needs of the country? This course does not, and it is a major concern, both the content of both the policy and the nonverbal talk of the state of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u137	President. I just wanted to come up and tell you that I think my colleague, you know. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, when he spoke of the Independence Party and the way it works, he met the nail. It seems that the secretary of finance writes financial policy, ill, ignoring reviews, and is not showing up in the Senate Hall because it is obviously of no importance to members of Congress on this matter. V.E.G. Secretary of finance knows that he has more part of the council, and the matter will pass through the council, whether he's having a discussion or not. That's just the way it is, sad but true.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u138	A respectable president. This march of the Ministers and especially the secretary of finance, ignoring the council, and not discussing financial plans for the next five years, undeniably points to the highest esteem. Minister for the council and highest respect. Minister to himself and his job. You will think of a plan that has shown in the matter that ministers are no longer members of Congress. Whether it is advisable to consider more of their proposals, that ministers may not remain members of the council can make ministers more respectful than they do. You ask yourself: " Looks like the highest. The secretary of finance owns himself as a member of Congress? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u139	President wants to state to the highest level. The minister of finance has been made known that there is a demand for his presence here in the hall. But saying so, we'll stop at this meeting until the end of the day. 20th
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u140	A discussion of the 5th session will now be postponed. The president holds hope to the highest. The secretary of finance can dislodge himself from other duties and arrive here in the Assembly Hall shortly. In due course, the discussion of the program will be resumed, which will be delayed for a time. Regarding a discussion that the president listened to regarding votes for proposals to refer to the government, or whether it was for a reasoned program, then there is a political body of Congress as far as it is concerned. All such proposals, whether for a logical program, suggest a reference to a government in a special Senate document or a motion to a government in a committee party, all will be given a vote after the discussion. It is not a matter of settling such matters in the middle of a discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u141	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a proposal for Congress resolution on the decision made by the Joint EEA Committee No. 94/2017 of a change in the state of VII. Annexes, mutual recognition of professional education and skill, and Annex X, general service to the EEA Convention. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by the Ministry of State and the Ólafur of Education and Culture Kristjánsson Gunnarsson. The proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the decision of the joint Commission No. 94/2017, from May 5, 2017, of the conversion of the above mentioned items and of the Convention Directive of the European Parliament and of the 2013/55/ EU from November 20, 2013, of the review of the Directive 2005/36/EC of the recognition of professional education and of the Regulation No. 1024/2012 on cooperation in the management sector through the information system for the internal market. Six months' delay in the EEA Convention was provided to lift controlled warnings to November 5, 2017. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 4. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. The Directive of the European Parliament and Council 2013/55/EU contains a warrant for professionals to accept their jobs in the EEA territory and thereby to work in the power of their education and experience. The main changes in the directive are aimed at ensuring that the procedure will become simpler and more rapid. The directive lists a so-called European professional card. The European professional card is aimed at strengthening the internal market, promoting professional mobility and ensuring more efficient and beneficial recognition of professional education and appropriate. With the European professional card, applicants can apply for recognition of professional education and electronically refer to the European professional profession. In accordance with the directive it is possible to provide limited access to a profession in those situations where there is such a great difference between the requirements for the relevant profession in the local territory and the expected innance that the requirements for this latter are equivalent to the need for the applicant to complete the full course and training in the host to obtain full access to the relevant profession in that state. In this case Member States shall use the information and services centres established in accordance with the requirements of the European Commission's Service Directive to facilitate recognition of professional education and eligibility. The National Competent Authority shall have accessible information including all legally protected professions in the Member State. The directive also includes permission to adopt common qualifications for education or a joint final test for the desired professions, thereby establishing spontaneous recognition for those articles. The directive also includes training, but students in the course of training should have the option to obtain an accepted training course or a probationary period within the legal profession carried out in another EEA country other than in their country. It then requires that the current legislation and legislation be further developed, particularly in order to ensure that current requirements do not include direct or indirect discrimination on the basis of state or habitats, that they are placed on the basis of the important public interests and that the requirements for protection of the work rights are falling to the target and not to exceed the need for achieving these objectives. The implementation of the directive calls for changes in the law of No. 26/2010, the recognition of professional education and suitable work in this country. The Minister of Education and Culture will provide a bill for a legal adjustment in the law of the current legislature. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted. The members of the committee are Chairman Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigurbjörn, President Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Gunnar Sveinsson Sólsson, Logi Einar Einarsson, Stefán Vagn Stefánsson, Smári Mccarthy, and Stefóttir Brynjólfsdóttir Brynlfótsdótir and Britti Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir were absent from the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u142	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a committee study to confirm the determination of the joint EEA committee for a change in II. Annex on technical regulations, standards, testing and certification of the EEA Convention. The committee has discussed the matter and was contacted by Pétur Gunnarsson from the Ministry of State and Lára Helgadóttir and Þórunn Steinsdóttir from the Ministry of Health. The proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the decision of the joint EEA committee from July 7, 2017, for a change in II. Annex to the EEA Convention to enter the Commission's Commission's Commission's Commission's Commission's Commission's Commission's Commission's Commission's Commission's Commission's Commission Directive from 24 June 2014 on the design of the common ID to verify products offered by the public for telematics and technical and electronic requirements and encryption requirements for the testing of its authenticity. On January 7, 2018, a six month delay in the EEA Convention was provided for the recovery of administrative warnings. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 4. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. The Regulation establishes a common ID to confirm that persons offering medicines on the telecommunications have the authority to be identified as such by the competent authorities. The Regulation is aimed at harmonising national legislation in the European Economic Area and maintaining the market of counterfeit drugs. The rules also turn to consumers who are supposed to be able to trust that the websites that carry the identifying marks are legal. The implementation of the Regulation calls for changes in pharmaceuticals, No. 93/1994. Health Ministers are expected to place on the current legislature a bill for a change in the law. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted. Under the committee's opinion, the Chairman of the Committee, Áslaug Anna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Logi Einar Einarsson, Stefán Vagn Stefánsson, Smári Mccarthy, and Stefótir Brynjólfsdóttir Brynlfótsdótir, and Britti Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, were absent from the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u143	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a proposal for Congress resolution on the decision made by the Joint EEA Committee No. 187/2017, change in XIX. Annex to the EEA Convention. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Pétur Gunnarsson from the Ministry of State and Skarphéðinsson's Department of Employment and Development. The proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the decision of the joint Commission No. 187/2017, of September 22, 2017, of the change in XIX. Annexes, consumer protection, of the EEA Convention on May 2, 1992, and of the Convention Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2015/2302 of 25 November 2015 on packaging trips and a synthetic travel proposal and a change in Regulation No. 2006/2004 and Council Directive 2011/83/EC and deletion of Council Directive 90/314/EEC On March 22, 2018, six months' notice was given under the EEA Convention to defuse administrative warnings. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 4. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. The European Parliament and Council Directive 2015/2302 are aimed at strengthening consumer protection by extending the range of existing package-wide legislation so that it can also cover what may be called co-ordinated tourism. Then the directive recommends mutual recognition of insurance systems. The older directive, adopted by law No. 80/1994, over travel, important rights were introduced for consumers who bought a passage, a package tour. On the other hand, consumer protection does not include those who make their own trips and are designed to ensure these rights. In terms of mutual recognition of insurance systems, the directive has the effect that the European consumers can now assume that in other EU countries marketed over borders, citizens are sufficiently secure. This may increase the competition between segregators across borders, which may include moving tourism companies to a place where insurance systems are most acceptable. This is unlikely to be a problem for Icelandic companies. The implementation of Directive 2015/2302 calls for changes in the country. Track No. 80/1994 will be removed and new total laws replaced. Pronounced change will likely also be on travel regulations, No. 73/2005. Travel, industrial, and innovation ministers are expected to present a bill for legislation at the current legislature. In this given, the Committee proposes that the proposal be accepted. Hv. Senators Resa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynjolfsdóttir and Brytís Haraldsdóttir were absent from the case. The people who agreed were what they were. Chairman of the Committee, Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigurbjörndótttir, Logi Trausti Guðmundsson, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Sigríður Maríía Egilsdóttir, Little Mccarthy, and Stef Stefánsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u144	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a proposal for Congress resolution on the decision of the joint EEA no. 107/2017, change of XX. Annex to the EEA Convention. The Foreign Affairs Committee has discussed the matter and has contacted Pétur Gunnarsson from the Ministry of State and Kjartan Ingvarsson from the Ministry of Environment and Resources. The proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the decision of the joint Commission No. 107/2017, especially from June 13, 2017. The data on best available technology or the BAT, as it is called in English, are being fixed under the directive of the European Parliament and the Council for industry with ironless metal. On December 13, 2017, a six month delay in the EEA Convention was provided for the recovery of administrative orders. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 4. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. As for the purpose of the Directive 2010/75/EU for emissions in industry, it includes re-distribution and updates of seven EEA integrated pollution measures in order to increase the clarity of the rules. The order goes beyond the older directives. The target of Directive 2010/75/EU is to prevent and limit pollution from certain activities. The main indicators have to do with the best available technology (BAT), and their value through the development of the so-called data on the best available technology (BAT Consolations ◯ BUTC). It means that the European Commission will agree with Member States and stakeholders, criteria for specific activities. These criteria will be set as a special type of the Commission. In Iceland, the decision happens to be made by three branches. At least one company working on recycling an aluminium and one factory producing silica iron (iron store). In addition, the decision will be made by two factories that have begun to produce the EEA's work permit and produce raw silk, as well as by one additional factory that has been applying for such activities. The Commission's decision (EU) 2016/1032 calls out as no legal adjustment. The mother on which the decision is made, i.e. Directive 2010/75/EU, however, required adjustment. The Environment and Resource Minister presented a bill to legalize the laws on the compromise and pollution of the 146th legislation Council, which led to the introduction of a Directive 2010/75/EU in Icelandic legislation. The law went into effect on July 1, 2017. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted. Hv. Senators Resa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynjolfsdóttir and Brytís Haraldsdóttir were absent from the case. Under the committee's opinion, publications are in addition to my background. Councilmen Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Logi Einar Einarsson, Sigrided María Egilsdóttir, Smári Mccarthy, and Stefán Stefánsson. Mr. President. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u145	Mr. President. I recommend to the Committee of Economic and Business Committee members the Commission's Committee's Committee for Change of bill for Transduction, Central Convention and Interchange Files. The bill suggests that the EU Regulation on so-called OTC derivatives, centrally designed and derivatives will be provided with the legislation on the adjustment resulting from the decision of the joint Commission No. 206/2016. The protocol is intended to increase transparency and reduce the risk of derivatives-based markets, including with the rules for the interaction of intermediate modulators through conduction and central analysis of information through deconjugatory business files. It is worth calling to the attention of the World Congress that on the committee discussion two points were made, on one hand, the frame determined in Article 12. the bill for violation of Article 1. 14th par. The Regulation, that the central developer may not work without the Marketing Authorisation, and the retrospective action involved in the implementation of the bill that all non-sential agreements that were opened on July 1, 2017, shall be undertaken by the decontractor. At that time, the Regulation was part of the EEA's right to decide on the common EEA committee. According to Article 12. the bill will be in violation of 1 mg. 14th par. EU legislation has to do with fines or prisons up to two years. The committee was advised that the Regulation does not require such a heavy law against violations of the article. Rather, it agrees with the regulations given in Article 3. Twenty-two. The Regulation requiring the Member States to ensure that the application of appropriate administrative measures in accordance with national law against those individuals or lawyers responsible for the failure of the Regulation. In a memo to the Committee, the Office of Economic and Economic Affairs states that it is up to the EEA itself to determine the penalty against national law. While it is proper to look at the countries we compare with on a penalty frame and whether violations are punishments, it is equally important to maintain harmony in national legislation on a financial market. According to Article 112. b Song No. 161/2002, on financial companies, on fines or on prisons up to two years in non-employment activities. The Ministry Assessment is that the same applies to central shapes as for e.g. Bank and stock companies. Although the committee does not suggest a change in this provision, it is important that general review of legal rights should be made of financial violations, including violations, such as the practice of a financial market without a clear license. Therefore, the Committee directs to the Ministry that it should have such an investigation done as it is checked who are being framed for similar offenses, including correspondent in the north and elsewhere in Europe The Ministry is asked to keep the Committee more informed about the implementation of this investigation. Then there was a few discussions about retrospective information activities that will affect financial companies during the implementation of the bill. It has been shown that it can be difficult to fulfill obligation again, e.g. in which decontract agreements shall be made according to the Regulation and coded in a certain way that has not been performed in this country until now. The Commission has been informed that the Ministry and the SEC work together to solve the problem in a minimum burdensome way for market members. The committee suggests that this work will be speedy and consultation with appropriate stakeholders. For this reason, the committee does not suggest any changes in this regard. As I told you earlier, they also include the changes in the proposals of the Committee that I refer to in the Committee. They're all technical in terms of harmony. Under this view are the writings of Óli Björn Kárason, president of the Committee and Director of History, Brubbur the Gunnarsson of Níelsson, Bryndís, Mnældstir Haraldsdóttir, Mjörn Gjörn, Harðardóttir G. Hardurdurdótttir, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, Hildardóttir Hjörður, and Silja Gótnar, Gunnarsdóttir of Gótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u146	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a judicial hearing of a change in criminal treatment laws and full punishment laws, of expenses. It's counted from the General and Education Committee. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by the Heiðar of Þorsteinsson by Bryndís Helgadóttir and the People's Þorvaldur of the National Social Ministry of Justice. The bill suggests that reimbursement and decommissionment of charges will be added to criminal treatment laws, but the law fell to error in the extent of the adjustment. In addition, the corresponding application of legal advice in the same law and the law on the ultimate punishment is proposed. In the handling of the case for the commission, it was stated that it is an inquisitor of the defendant, i.e. This involves the obligation of a government fund to cover the expenses that will be paid for by the convicted and to cancel the expenses under certain circumstances. The committee found that the directive is in line with the rules of fair court treatment, i.e. On the one hand, to ensure the payment of the defense so that the defendant can have adequate court defense, and to cancel the charges in certain cases, as per the Supreme Court's case of No. 248/2005. In this case, the Supreme Court concluded, with a reference to the release of the European Court of Human Rights, that an Icelandic law should be explained to those convicted of criminal charges and that it would have to be possible to prove their incapacity to the defenders'fees at such costs. The committee agrees with the importance of reinstatement. The committee proposes that the bill be accepted as unchanged. Andrés Ingi Jónsson was away from the hearing. Páll Magnússon, who was absent from the case, signed in accordance with Article 4. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, an officer on the committee, agrees with this. As a result, Páll Magnússon, president of the United States, Anna Kolbrún of the Árnadóttir, Birgir son of Ármannsson, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, Olga Margrét Cilia, Þóra, Áranna's Árnadóttir, and Willum Þórsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u147	Mr. President. I'd like to be glad that this bill has come all the way here to the 2nd. ... ina council. I'd like to thank the restoration and its members for their efforts, especially for their efforts. I think it means a lot, and I think it fits well into the social discussions and the changes that have been made in the community, with increasing emphasis on everyone's approval. - Isn't that the speech? [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Excuse me. I got it all wrong. I'm sure it's the law we're going to correct. I'm really happy with that, too. But I may not have to thank you specifically for that. I just thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u148	Mr. President. It's always good to have your thanks, even if it's undeserved, but it's good to have it. A senator will be able to repeat his thanks later. I hereby recommend a panorama of universal and educational committees as well as a motion for changing general penalties, No. 19/190, with subsequent changes. The committee has discussed the matter and was contacted by Professor of the University of Iceland's University, Kolbrún Benediktsdóttir from the district district district district district attorney Paul Island's Sigríður of the Þorsteinsson Police Department, Ísfeld Ólafsdóttir og Heiðar, Professor of the Legal Department of the University of Iceland, Þorvaldur Heiðar of the National Rights, Margrét Svala of the Iceland's National Institute of Human Rights, Hrönn Stefánsdóttir Dögg og Rós's Kristinsdóttir from the Association of Women's Association, Mr. There were reviews from these same partners and others. The bill is suggested to 1st. 194. gr. a penal law will be changed to allow approval in the foreground definition of rape. In this way, the emphasis will be on the method of rape. Rather, increasing emphasis will be placed on the sexual freedom and self - determination rights of an individual by specifying rape from the absence or possession of consent. It is suggested that agreements for intercourse or other sexual practices be agreed to be used so that convergence and other sexual practices could be protected without consent. Free will has to be agreed on, and it is specifically referred to as a specific situation where approval is not readily available. The Committee concluded whether the approach proposed in the bill was based on a view. based on lack of consent, rather than a description of rape, is correct. This approach includes more emphasis on the tolerability of fractures, i.e. rather than highlight the ways of the defendants, what violations did or did not do? Similarly, there was a view of the opposite. In the treatment of the case before the Commission it was noted that the bill should not lead to an increase in emphasis on researching the degree of violation beyond what is now. The Commission also gave the view that the bill is not really a major change but that it involves clear policy and changing emphasis on the lawgiver's part, which is an important change. It was then thought that if the bill becomes the law, the number of convictions will not necessarily be increased. In contrast, such definitions of consent give rise to an increased recognition of the importance of sexual freedom and, along with increased education, could lead to notably young people being aware of the importance of approval. Thus, such a definition could include an increase in pre-emptive value and thereby a reduction in fractures. The Commission has a right to the objective of the bill that, under definition of rape, the preservation will be approved and to be consistent with the separation rate of 69. g. The Constitution on the logic of penalties is further defined as that when specific procedures were used, approval is not readily available. The Commission noted that with the bill it is not intended to alter proof requirements, although consent has, in effect, been the underlying definition of rape between the regulations of 194.3.g. legalized by law No. 61/2007. The committee finally points out the importance of further education and information that sexual relations should always be based on the mutual approval of members of the community. In handling the case of the committee it was suggested that if the objective of the bill was to suggest that intercourse or other sexual acts could be punished in case of clear consent to participate in sexual activity, it would be reasonable to deliver an action description of 1. The bill, to use deception, or to exploit the error of the person, below 2 mg. 194. gr. a general penal law. With law No. 61/2007, the change in general penal law, was 199. gr. a general penalties involving such behavior were removed, but it appears that such behavior was intended to fall below 2 mg. 194. gr. Same song. Court of the Supreme Court No. Thus, 620/2009 was refused to have such a violation description at 2 mg. 194. gr. The law, on the other hand, believed that the behavior would involve a violation of shamelessness, as stated at 209. The law. Thus, the laws of deception and error have been considered to be self - imposed, not defined as rape, as a violation of the law for the lower punishment. To respond to the above court's judgment as well as to observe the harmony of the 194th chapter. The law of Law as well as the achievement of the law No. 61/2007, the commission suggests that an act of deception and error will be eliminated in Article 1. the bill, but it adds 2 mg. 194. gr. The law. In addition to the above changes, the Committee suggests minor word changes, including to be consistent with the wording of others in general penalties. Andrés Ingi Jónsson was absent from the case but signed in accordance with Article 4. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, an officer on the committee, agrees with this. Sets the committee to accept the bill with the following modification: ▪ At 1st Gr. a. Table of Contents Words such as: Acceptance is not viewed as an act of violence, threats, or other forms of illegal necessity. b. Adds a new letter, as follows: "There is a word that is spoken of in 1st mgr.◯ at 2 mgr. 194. gr. The law of the law comes in: resort to deception or to exploit a person's error in the situation or in some way. Under these words, President Páll Magnússon, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, and Ingi In Jónsson, as noted earlier, Árnadóttir Kolbrún Árnnad, Birggis Birgir of Ármannsson, Guðmundur Andri Þórsson, Steinnu Árnadóttir, Árjörsson, and Thordur Ævarsdóttir Avvardótir. I want to complete my case by thanking the members of the Committee for particularly pleasant cooperation with this work and all the numerous visitors and clients who helped to make the bill even more possible. That's what I'm saying. I'm gonna step out of a pita and hope the case gets speed and good payback on the 3rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u149	Mr. President. What a joy it is to get up here in the right direction and discuss this important matter and just the opportunity to thank and thank Jehovah for putting it in the right place! As funny as this initial running was before me, the subject of which is by no means humorous and, in fact, very serious. What matters to me is that when it comes to communication between people, we finally send a clear message that approval is all that matters. By sending these messages, we are also sending messages to the victims who experience what they did not say clearly no, they did not fight hard enough, they or they did not get hurt enough, or they suffered enough conflicts to justify calling what they were subjected to sexual immorality, rape, or other forms of rape. I feel that this is an enormous step because, as we all know, there is great self - blame for getting involved in sexual abuse and a strong question from both society, even though it is getting better, but also from the person himself as to what the person could have done to prevent the violence they experienced. This makes me feel that we are putting together the responsibility of ensuring that there are agreements for the activities to be performed. That should apply to all communication, I think. With this, we're at least as lawgivers to say that this is all important. If you did not accept consent, even if you did not say a loud and clever no or fight back, if there was no consent, there is a sexual offense. I think it is a very important message, especially in the light of how victims of sexual abuse often react by even freezing in quite a few cases, about 40% if I recall correctly. If so, you may not expect to accept or reject consent while it is obvious that it is not available. I really appreciate the fact that it's done. I think that's going to matter to us. Perhaps at the end, I would like to review what we heard from many of our guests who have had much to do with these cases, have supported the tolerability of sexual abuse, and have cared for them in one way or another, caring for the needs of those who suffer, that this will make it easier for them to go on charges, to keep it so clearly in the law that there is a need for consent. It will also help them to recover from such violence, to make it clear in the law that approval is needed. I just wanted to say that I'm very happy that the case has come all the way here. I hope we can make it a way through the council because it's very important to me. I'm once again thanking a traveler for presenting the case, as well as for all the members of the General and Education Committee who have worked with me and the other members of the committee with a very good mind, I think.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u150	A respectable president. Once again, I welcome this bill to legalize the change in general penal law regarding sexual violations imposed by the reveries of the reveries here at the council a second time. This is so that it is being maintained, not the material change of the requested 194rd par. a general penal law. It is not a chemical change in which sexual activity without consent is already punishable and has been since the change of general law in 2007, but more is involved in sharpening the law's will on this particular law. The fact that approval must be clear and clear has been in the law, but for some of the reasons, failure to accept has really had to be responsible to prove that the approval was not there. This has been the case with those who have served in this class, which is something special. I only came into this about 1st. This fine thing because in other matters involving violations of public law, the same is not seen. For example, consider breaking houses, breaking houses. In the case of burglary, a householder may assume that no one else enters his house unless there is a special permit for the householder, either that the person was invited to a visit or that the person had a key in the place. If the person has not received an invitation or had a key, it is absolutely clear that a broken house is involved. However, in the case of sexual misconduct, we have decided to let the householder, so to speak, prove that he has not approved of the invasion. This has been the case in the case of sexual misconduct, both of the police, in the case of the prosecution and later in the court, that somehow violators had to show that he had made a man fully aware that an invasion of his or her own life was not acceptable to the offense. It's kind of all turned around in my opinion. In these matters, despite a clear law, it has been decided that approval is an ongoing condition, that the individual's natural condition is that the individual is always in the world anywhere, whether the person knows the person or not, that no matter what the outcome, sexual relations are the only ones who make any choice. Of course, this is not so in the modern law of the law of the 194. g., that is the way it is said, but in the case of both police and prosecutors and courts, it has somehow been so that it simply has to prove that he refused, he did not approve. How does that work for the individual? Many studies have been performed, including For a study conducted by Gísladóttir Agnes, the frequency and characteristics of sexual abuse against women who sought an emergency hospital at the State Hospital in 19983/42007, in a special report that reported the rape - related Nautilus, when a controversial change in the penal law was submitted to the previous one, i.e. last assembly. This study is discussed in the report. It shows that in the circumstances that take place, less than 13% of resistance freezes, 30% attempts somehow to speak the person to or to fight back in words, and less than 30% fight the invasion physically. Today, too, in 47% of cases the number of alcoholic tolerance has been reported to have been alcohol - related sexual violence. Thus, a large number of sexually abused people either freeze completely and cannot, in any way, report that these are not approved or unable to be reported out of ignorance. We'll see what conditions are like, i.e. to turn to the head that the person had to prove that a doer wasn't there, thanks to violation resistance. It is also worth pointing to, as noted in this committee, that the burden of evidence is not being reversed in these matters. Not at all. On the contrary. It is simply that a doer must somehow prove that tolerated sex, or whatever happens, has had both consents. I think this is going to be a great thing to do, though, as mentioned earlier, it is not a revolution. It's not a revolution. No material adjustments are being made. It is changing a certain attitude that the person needs a clear agreement to associate with another person. So I'd like to reiterate that I embrace this bill very much, and I hope so much that it will be passed out here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u151	A respectable president. I want to be happy that this case has come a long way, and I expect it to be approved at this council in view of the extent of its arrival. I would like to discuss just certain misunderstandings or fears in my community. I have mentioned this before in a talk but feel that it is important to keep it in place and not go through with it thoroughly. Councilmen have mentioned the above. Twenty-seventh. The Constitution says, by permission of the President: The law is to be done. On the way to publication and implementation of the law, the law goes on to the law of the land. There's a reason this law is in the constitution. This is because the city has the right to know the laws of the land. For two reasons. On the one hand, the city needs to know what its required behavior is, and second, the city needs a realistic way to read the law and recognize its right to others. There is, however, quite a bit, in my opinion, in general penalties that the common citizen will not understand in accordance with a judicial action. Often mentioned, it is true that what is happening here is not a material change, but it is of little importance because reading the laws they are all offering some misunderstanding. It's best seen by the fear that the evidence is being turned around, that from now on people need to prove that they're innocent of some crime. People are going to be terribly frightened when they get this idea, natural, the burden of proof must not be turned back. But this misunderstanding may be due to our community, regardless of how a judicial action is, the understanding has not been sufficiently high on this route, which is, of course, a judicial action, and is the intention of the bill we address here. I think it's extremely important to keep this up, too, because there are other issues that are discussed in the General and Education Committee, e.g. A case in which digital sexual abuse is formerly referred to as barbarism or vendettas, although it is not an ideal word, is often referred to as judicial action, and they hear voices that the practice is, in fact, forbidden. It is good and blessed, but it must be clear. It is not enough to carry out a judicial decision. The city needs to be able to read the laws, and to understand his rights to others and then, of course, how he should behave himself, he does not have these fundamental boundaries that we think most of us are self - righteous, but, unfortunately, we are not. Away from the wake-up call that I hope this bill will lead to, and I think I know that it does make sense to me that we explain all these laws, such as the rules of public penalties. Otherwise, if there's no misunderstanding about what the law means, there'll certainly be a misunderstanding about what a bill like that means. But I reiterate my concern about this because I've heard these concerns so many times, that the burden of proof is being reversed. It must always be emphasized that it is not being turned around. This lack of understanding comes from a period of 194 C.E. the legal law, as it is written today, is not written in my opinion to say yes and the right to say no, but it doesn't matter what the answer is, of course, to the people of all our sexual freedoms, that we have the right to say yes and the right to say no, but it's our own and nothing else.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u152	A respectable president. About the year, there was a campaign on which they called "Yes." This bill is simply in the spirit of that effort, and I'm delighted. The comments I have on that are very few and brief. There's a very big difference when you ask a violation drive: "Do you say no? and to ask wrongdoers: Did you say yes? I'm gonna let people understand it for themselves. My side doesn't need an explanation. The most interesting thing to do with the bill is a phrase that I don't agree very well with: Silence is consent. But with this, it is simply being said that silence is not the same as approval.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u153	A respectable president. I like to read the Commission's opinion and see that it was taken out of the General and Education Committee of March 8, on the women's international day, because I hope it's a very important fight to get through. I want to thank you too. Steindór Jóldori Valdimarsson for inviting me to be one of the great partners of this good case and for leading the situation through the committee quite well. In general, we received a rather positive report, but some adjustments had to be made. It was done smoothly. This is where we're going to move into a positive and well-designed operation. As we have seen, this is really a change that has little effect on evidence in judicial matters or on conduct within the system. It is a tool to increase people's general sense of justice so that they can identify the situation in sexual immorality. And then what is more subtle is what we do not often think about when we set laws; this is a rule of upbringing toward society. People, especially future generations, are being taught how to communicate. How we can treat one another. This is a clear message that will have a positive effect over time. The number of cases may increase over time, but may be reduced because people will simply be able to communicate better. I'm not going to have many words, but I can mention, because I had the privilege of attending the United Nations Women's Committee for Women in New York last week, that they were going through the halls of young people who came there from various countries and passed between representatives in committees that most people have with a clear message. They were there, I'm afraid to say, a petition to help bring to the world the importance of legalizing consent. It was being fought on a international scale that the world's countries are doing what is being suggested here for Iceland to do. That's where we're going to be one of the first states to make a success of this step. And hopefully the first of many. I know how to do it. Steindór Thank Valdimarsson very much.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u154	A respectable president. I'm not gonna have many words about this. I'm here primarily to say thank you. paritaprevir By means of him, Valdimarsson Valdímdar's son, the case is established on this platform and is delighted to have been able to cooperate with him and with other members of the General Board of Education and Education in a very exclusive manner. It was a careful job that took place. A number of people came before the committee and discussed the matter and sent us reports. They were positive. There were small things that needed to be scratched. I think the results are good. There's a very important message, I think, in the bill I hope to reach the community. It's a simple but powerful message. They're about this simple thing, must be approved. That is what human association is all about. I'd like to use a little bit of text that I think is better than just a lot of what I've seen. It's by poet Elísabet Jökulsdóttir's daughter. Many are familiar with this text. He's like this, with President's permission: There are all kinds of normal men, even my friends, complaining about this meloo wave that's going on, they say you can't be human, and there's something really there, and nothing you can do anymore. To them I would like to say, there may be nothing, a man asks permission for everything; May I show you what I just wrote, May I have the toothpaste, that I may have the milk? May I give you a hug, let me borrow your hat...
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u155	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The divinity of Thorsson Thorson for those words. They certainly are relevant in this discussion. I'm one of the carriers of this great bill. I don't have a seat. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. I have to say, I'm really happy to see this thing going on and to see that. A top-of-the-art Board of Education is assembled in one of the committees suggesting that the bill be adopted by slight changes. I say in my own way that when I was invited off. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson to be on this bill, I viewed it and was certainly in agreement with its content and its main purpose, yet he was pointed out by various sources that there could be some legal complication and the one here that is not legalistic. So I like to read through the reviews that have been received. They look very detailed and well around. As a result, the committee has some proposed changes that meet these factors. I just wanted a chance to come up here and say I'm glad. It is interesting to see that here is a bill submitted by the private members of Parliament and it is established in the process and all the committees agree that this case should be agreed. Many good sources agree with the importance that this is a very symbolic change in the subject of this agreement. Thank you. A committee to discuss this in this way and, of course, to all the managers who have helped.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u156	Mr. President. Like others, I want to thank you. 1st trucker of this bill, as well as the head of the Committee on Public and Education Committee, Jón Valdimarsson, first for putting in this bill, and also for the way he handled it and the tips given by the commission. I have to say, this is a more positive thing I've been going through, since it's recommended - we haven't quite come to agree with it - and until I get it over with. The work was so exemplary. The reviews were started and made the small changes needed to be made in order for the situation to be prepared. It fills me with the tremendous hope that we are taking an important step and that we will have important results when it comes to women's freedoms and sex equality in Iceland, as well as dealing with the social ills of sexual violence. That is why it is so important that we have managed to travel together in bringing this matter to its conclusion. The importance of education and information in sexual relations and the need for approval was highlighted in every review and in the speech of the guests who presented the committee. I think that's what we need to take to the next stage in the future, i.e. The educational material. That is why I really hope that in the next few days we will agree to this matter. I would like to point out that for the council there is also a pact proposal made by Una Hildardóttir, a branch attorney with left greens, who goes out to order a team of professionals who reevaluate sex education in elementary and higher schools. I think it's the next thing we have to do. It's like something's wrong. A senator earlier said that this bill may not necessarily increase the number of cases on the basis of the charges, but this could lead to a reduction in their numbers. I think it will certainly be to reduce them if we continue to promote the education and discussions in our community. I'm not going to postpone the discussion on this matter anymore. Rather, I now declare my joy with it and hope that we will continue in the same course when it comes to these important matters, to work together to a good conclusion for all of us, and to make real social changes in how we deal with sexual violence. And I hope that's what we'll explain.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u157	Mr. President. I cannot help but come up here thanking all the beautiful words that have been made to fall on this beautiful subject and myself. Now, I'd kind of like to come up here to tell you that I'm not completely alone because it's this far. All members of the Committee, members of the Parliament and the clients have placed their hands here. Then I can't bear to mention the case of Þorbjörg Gunnlaugsdóttir, the daughter of Guindar, a former vice - council member, who was a support to me in bringing this bill together and speaking all of it all. I think it's very important that in this bill this clear policy declaration of the legislature's will. It's like they said here by one. A senator, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, is giving some kind of direction. This may be in harmony with what Professor Ragnheiður Bragadóttir said. In her review, very detailed, she speaks of the case in which she says that this does not make much of a conviction and the like, but says, by permission of the president: The legalisation of this definition according to approval is a natural factor in the development of the court, and it seeks to ensure that the law is in harmony with the public's sense of justice. The bill shows the agreement more clearly than the current rules. It is easily understood, and such a law could have an effect on the prevention of offenses. This is very important. Then I'd also like to mention that with this bill approved, Iceland is taking the lead, at least in the North countries, in increasing and more clear violations, what is penalized, what cannot, and what cannot, with regard to rape. We can be very proud of it. I'm at least. pride in being a part of it. I also think it's fine that we remind ourselves that we are not really in the country of fixing legislation on the matter of sexual misconduct. There have been scenes such as digital violence. I think we should continue on the same path and continue to strengthen the law frame and we should be made clear, from the Lawgiver, what we can do, and what we cannot do about it. It's very important that we be on the lead. We've seen it in connection with the #metho revolution that these issues all in a broad sense, equal to the sexes, and sexual violence are not in the order they should be. They're in the worst of trouble, and they've been. We're supposed to fix it. I am convinced that we can all help. Finally, I would like to express my gratitude to all who have come to this case and hope so earnestly that this case will be accepted as first as a law from the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u158	Mr. President. I'd like to begin at the beginning of my speech with catching my breath, but also rejoice that the Minister of finance has come to the hall to hear us discuss this key piece of finance. For one thing, it is quite clear that the financial policy of the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter gets a complete drop credit from almost all the stakeholders that have discussed it. The financial policy is said to be a threat to stability, unrealistic, irresponsible, indiscriminate, vague, unsullied, inexplicable, indiscriminate, conservative, and unfaithful. This can be read from the reviews given to the budget board by the agencies who submitted a review. I specifically brought up the matter to the head of a financial committee that considered the reviews of these stakeholders very difficult, but one notices that more of the legal committees, while believing that these interests for stakeholders of policy have been tried, are not prepared to take any consideration of any of the comments. The sad situation in this situation is that the aims of the policy are to be extended and should not be changed while the government is in place. By their policy, governments commit themselves to conform to it in order to the government of public finance. It also includes a heavy commitment to government tax and spending policies. It must be adhered to by the government, but there are strict conditions for the review of policy. That economicism is then not better than we can see is a major concern, especially in view of the economic instability that has been present. As told by the Industrial Association, it is stated, by permission of the president: No country in OECD has ever gone through a similar swing in the actual rates of pay and prices, and the Icelandic United States over the past 15 years, but the real success of the crown is a measure of the development of regional competitiveness against foreign countries. Thus, no industrialized state has ever offered its companies an equally unstable position in a competitive position at this time. Thus, there has been great instability in this country on that standard. These are the words and evaluations of the industrial Association. Then the National Association of Iceland, by permission of Presidents, says that it makes it feel that the financial policy presented here will support economic and social stability in the coming years because of its limitations and that its policy does not meet the baseline policy of sustainability, efficiency, stability, stability, stability and transparency. But let's at this point go for a little review. For one thing, the French government policy of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter is very similar to the financial policy proposed by the autumn government. In many ways it is the same with the same course. According to the sector of industry, policies are similar to ◯. Thus, it is similar news as when the budget of this government was submitted in December, which is a total lack of influence on government finances. Here again, the fact that left greens sold themselves very cheap to get three ministers' chairs. This is even more tragic in the light of how senators of the left green spoke of the financial policy of the former government. What did they say? Just a year ago, Katrín Jakobsdóttir, the current prime minister, said with the permission of a president: The financial policy is to shape everything we do, and: obviously this is a high political policy presented here. This is what the present prime minister says about the course taken during the last terms. In view of these words, it is important and reason to review the profile of members of Congress left green into the financial policy of the previous government, a policy that, in the opinion of most stakeholders, is similar to the one discussed here. Consider what Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, the present prime minister, said in a discussion about the financial policy of the former government. By permission of the President: This government policy is preaching nothing but a traditional right-wing conservative bitch with the intention of doing as little as possible. And elsewhere, Katrín says: ▪ The right - to - do of this course is conservative and conservative. And in another speech, less than a year ago, the prime minister of Katrín Jakobsdóttir told her daughter that we were in the straitjackets of this direction and that this was, by permission of president, a policy based on continued maintenance, insufficient income, while the responsibility is referred to something different. There's plenty to take. With the permission of a president, the prime minister continued to criticize his former financial policy and said the following: It has been claimed at times that the left and right are out - of - date terms in political debates, but these are key concepts when we discuss dating documents such as the national financial policies presented here. It reflects basically the difference between the left and the right, because it's conservative. This is not an extension of long-term revenues. Those were words of the highest order. The prime minister of a previous financial policy that is similar to what it now carries before us. Most recently, then, the financial policy of the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter is the same as she criticized, saying that the policy was too conservative and that it reflected right - to - right - to - hand attraction and that it would not be considered to take longer. Further recommendations made by the prime minister of the previous course are also made, by permission of the president: ▪ Why am I concerned about these financial rules? Yes, I believe they will bind very the hands of the Commission and the legislature to make decisions about how to inject in the systems we feel we need injections. We can immediately see this suggestion that I pointed to earlier in a short answer that it is very conservative. Here is a highly conservative policy. Again, the direct words of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, the present prime minister. And she goes on to identify her previous course, which is in the same direction that she then puts forth herself and says, by permission of the president: I don't know if I'm gonna get to the memory part, at least not the left movement ◯ green supply, will sign this policy. Then the day came when the left green didn't sign up for this financial policy of the former government, but now, because they're on this side of the hall, they're going to do it. I guess what was a straitjacket a year ago is something else today. What was right - minded political or conservative a few months ago, I guess that's no longer the case. Thus, a number of changes may be made in receiving three privileges of service. We'll see it again. Let us now consider it only a matter of course. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, the current representative of the Left Green on the budget, said about the financial policy of the previous government. By permission of the President: The strategy for fiscal policy for 2017/2022 gives evidence that there is no intention of dealing with the economic expansion by means of specific measures or to support the government's income base. There is no need to put into words that there may be a stifling form of the right policy that was traveling when the last government's financial policy was made and when another version appears. These were the words of a representative of the Left Green on a budget board right now, from last year on. The VG representative of the budget board also said in the first year, on permission of the president: However, while there is much to find in the laws on government finance and in this controversy of economic policy for the coming years, the main concern is that the application of these devices is now being controlled by an unscrupulous right course that is constantly moving further away from the aim of the welfare of society. Such a course would be completely absurd to support. It's ridiculous to support, it's said of a policy similar to the course this class is now asking us to accept. Now it is simply a third edition of this financial policy, and then left greens at once will support it. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that in the first financial policy, the so - called spending policy was a spending policy. The left greens strongly criticized it. Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, Bjarkey Olsen, and some more of them. Parliaments criticized prior financial policy to have a budget, a fixed percentage of government spending may be due to national production. It's not in this direction. But what makes more of the legal committee with the support of an agent of the left green? Most of them directly call for this same rule, the so - called spending rule in their committees that was distributed today. It's amazingly Spanish. Hv. paritaprevir A husband and Oddný of Eddny Harðardóttir made adjustments in a previous government policy that suggested that this law be taken out, that would not be a fee. Every senator in the left green supported the change, the making of not such a charge, but the ambiguous use of government funds, as most economists say, is an option to make, whether it is an uplift or a downturn. But now this is another example of how once left greens are in the government, it all turns upside down. Red has turned blue for some reason. Finally, in this historical review, I'm going to mention the words of another senator left greener than sharp. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé spoke of a world - known starving policy in his talk about finance policy of the former government. He also, by permission of the president, said: And I don't want the community drawn up in this five-year financial policy. This situation becomes clearer, yet this same senator represents a policy that is almost the same that he criticized so severely a year ago. It is remarkable in this view that this same senator also said the following, with the permission of a president: ▪ I have less respect for people who say one thing for elections than the other after. You see, Mr. President. And that's what we're always criticizing over and over again. We're not supposed to say one thing for elections and another after. We're not supposed to. Of course, I realize that people do compromise in politics, and no one gets everything. But there can be now. I have repeatedly asked my left - green friends: "Why was there a fight? I see nothing disappointed in the development of left - green policy when it comes to funding and now to finance policy, and I fear what we will see in the budget. I'm a sponsor for many policies left-green. I want to see them in a much clearer way than I've seen so far. I think that left greens can depend on the support of the United States to achieve exactly what the left green was, and the Conspiracy focused on making an election and promising voters that they would emphasize. You're not supposed to sacrifice everything to get into the government. It seems to me that the left green did it. Let us now consider what the experts, the stakeholders, say about policy. Let us first consider financial advice. What is financial counsel now? Financial advisers are appointed by financial and economic ministers and are independent of their jobs. Its evaluation of financial policy is thus of substantial importance, but it is most recently reported that the financial policy of this government does not result in a high rate in terms of a lower share of the budget. In fact, representatives of the Ministry of finance confirmed the meeting of the budget committee that 80 comments and tips had been made in financial policy. Not all negative, but 80 comments and indications. And remember that, the majority of the legal committees are not prepared to consider any of them. The majority suggest that we remain in agreement with financial policy. Once again, government officials are not exalted to the Commission. Or if it's a case of officials. In a financial committee on the economic waste of policy, it is said to be marked by history and description. There is neither the diagnosis nor the possible solution to the economic recovery products, as stated in the opinion of the financial Council. This does not need to be controlled by words. These critical points are emphasized by the stakeholders. ASI considers it contrary to the law's goals for good, strength, and responsible economic management that the Council repeatedly ignores tips in financial reviews. Why do we not follow those indications? Why did some not take into account financial recommendations? Its main points in the review are even clearly developed. A business agency, a powerful lobster group that I know the secretary of finance will respond to, requires more transparency on the basis of financial policy, and that it is based on a careful evaluation of economic development. However, the most important comment made by financial adviser on policy management involves stability, as is a direct comment on the subject. The management board here interprets baseline stability as a basis for the practical use of manufacturing factors. In terms of memory, stability is threatened by this policy, and a number of stakeholders agree with that assessment. The government's income base is not secured at the same time that certain expenses are made. Under pressure, the maintenance of public funds results in a decrease in the need for a higher interest level and vice versa. In particular, industrial organizations call attention to this point, saying, by permission of the president: ▪ It can't be said that during this time, government economicism and money policy have rhythmd. Overinvolved in public financial affairs has been the burden of economic management over the money policy that has appeared in the higher direction of the bank. As a result of this policy, the Icelandic nation will have to endure a higher growth. We only manage our finances in two ways. It's the government law or the money policy, i.e. The penitentiary. If the government's case goes down the way they do here, then the CIA needs to take care of the budget, do some equipment, that's an increase in interest. That is expensive for an Icelandic company and home. Expenditures that are not fully funded over the economy include the adjustment of the original equation and the relaxation of the material. The same is true of the non-employmental selectivity reduction. In order to maintain the desired level of maintenance, costs would have to be reduced or more tax returns would have to be increased to a greater extent than the amount set up in the policy. In developing permanent expenditures, the collection of income must be ensured in order to promote sustainability. It's not done. This should be in context. We cannot reduce taxes and increase our expenses. There is no expert to see it succeed. But that seems to be the policy of this government. It's a bad economy. And then we have the impossible economy offered by the Independence Party, which is reporting 100 billion dollars here. the same time that he proclaimed the last weekend about 260 billion dollars. surgery in public service. Of course it doesn't make sense. They're just being fooled. In this context it is worth reminding of the financial council's comments from its opinion, which said that it seemed that the government was stepping loose on the fuel supply when they were supposed to be braking and continuing to relax the maintenance phase. Now it appears that there is a re- administration at the same time that uncertainty has increased, as the financial council puts it. Stability is at risk. I know that different people are calling for increased expenses, etc. But we need to finance our expenses. Therefore, we should not be shy about strengthening the state's income bases, especially at this point when we are making an advantage, as the situation is today. A tax reduction in the time of high production potential can be seen as a contribution to economic stability unless it is associated with other factors, as stated in another part of the financial board. This is not being done in policy. It can be estimated that each percentage point in the baseline level of income tax will correspond to 10 to 15 billion in government income. In this regard, financial council says, with the permission of a president: The reduction in taxes under these circumstances leads to increased inflation and is additionally expanding, i.e. if other revenues are not increased or reduced government expenses at the same time. The policy does not list any such actions. I was quoting financial counsel directly. ASI says, with President's permission, I'm referring to the comments of stakeholders, so people don't think these are my words: The main aim of the policy is to increase expenses by reducing the share of the government at the same time as reducing the revenue of previous government plans. ... However, no plans seem to be made to ensure permanent support of the government's income base to cover increased expenses. Therefore, the government intends to reduce the maintenance of public finances and their ability to pay permanent expenses. If the economy slows down, the income will not be enough to cover the current expenses, and there will be subsurgetion or tax recovery across the economy. I'm talking. Special attention to the following points is given by the permission of the president: Achieving costs, which also include maintaining the maintenance phase in the testing situation, requires further revenues or cuts from other expenditures or combinations of both. The fact that governments do not do either means that they are concerned with the responsibility for the management of money, and it is likely that these will delay the current growth loss process to a different extent. We in my 1st section of the budget board take our heart to these words of financial advisers. We see such an evil economy showing up in this policy, an economic administration that doesn't work out. The reduction in taxes, the increase in expenses - is not going to work. 100 billion bucks. infrastructure, 260 billion k. surgery - this doesn't work. Everyone who wants to see it is a good lock on it. It goes on with financial counsel. In view of the financial Council, the development of financial policy calls for political emphasis to be more targeted than it is here. So it's an unremarkable document. In the past, financial advisers have suggested that the necessary structures are lacking in order to implement the laws on public financial matters are going smoothly in the policy. The financial counsel then criticizes the lack of stratospheric analysis and the more efficient use of a number. Also, financial advice makes serious comments that the plan does not take into account the economic rhythm correction. Again, the government's career on finance policy can put it in a straitjacket. Economicism is not merely a manifestation form of government policy, it also needs to be realistic. Realism, however, is not one basic law on public finances. Budget Council and, indeed, a great number of clients point out that soft landings in the Icelandic economy are exceptions rather than a rule, so financial advice is desirable that in policy analysis would be made if circumstances were not expected in the Economics. Of course we know it'll slow down here and it may start to slow down. There's something about the sky. Everything that goes up comes back down. That is why we need to be prepared when the downtrodden comes. The right time is now to prepare for the down cycle, for it comes in one way or another, as history shows. Another source of business, through the permission of a president, says: The economic forecast on which financial policy is based is very optimistic and assumes for an unprecedented economy. It is hard to build the foundation of public funds on such a bright stage and more responsible it would be to have lived beneath it. This is an irresponsible course. It is reflected in those words. She's too optimistic. A representative of the financial organisations met the committee and called the financial policy a certain dream. That might say everything that needs to be said. Of course, we should be realistic and trustworthy. Industrial organizations go so far as to say that both financial and economic calculations are unrealistic and unrealistic. Thus, the government's financial policy is widely criticized, everywhere, for being an unrealistic and disloyal document, and it is most reprehensible to offer such an event to members of the United States. It should be noted that financial advisers have special words about the need forinvestment, but when such investments are put aside, it is likely to end up in the production process, with the standard of living and sustainability of the infrastructure. In this regard, by permission of the President's Association, the EEA says that the emphasis on sustainability and responsibilities for the next generation at the same time and the debt collection in our infrastructure is as great as it really is. A growing need for maintenance will then be the next generation's debt. Investment of investments is high if the cards are handled properly and costs are served with caution. In that light, it is sobering to consider not using any systematic priorities in providing funds for, for example. Transport The industrial organization is speaking to us. Also, financial policy does not reveal how to increase production in this country, which should be the chief subject of the government. Iceland's production has been a long time, decades, way too low, as everyone here knows. Mr. President. In recent years, government institutions have been weakened, reducing the maintenance of financial matters and significantly reducing the scope for needed welfare benefits. Many urgent measures to improve health systems, education systems, transportation, and social security are urgent. Since automatic fluctuation is not to be used in the economy, the maintenance of financial policy is to use the welfare system as the main economy. It is carried out by means of unfunded intensive welfare improvements and infrastructure, as well as the weakening of child- and growth reforms. Let's think about this. Half of the interest paid last time the Conspiracy was in the government is out of that system. One-quarter is lost from the child-replacement system. Now we see that we are defending only 4 billion on the growth reform system. To put that in context, there are 26 Icelandic bankers who pay a billion dollars. They have one-quarter of what the Icelandic government is about to spend on the entire growth system. You can see how crazy this is, both for pay development in the banking system, and especially for the lack of interest in these government groups to add to child reforms and interest improvements. Let's remember, and keep it up that the management parties all pushed the no-button when the proposals of the management stand were brought to their end in a vote. There was no senator, such as. Left green ready to raise your child's improvements and raisements. The obvious fact is that as the overall improvement of activity is reduced, there will be an increase in the welfare system or taxes, on the contrary, in the procrastination process. We're supposed to strengthen the government's income base on the height of the economy. It may be quite a while to raise taxes to subtraction. It is so often about timing and good and reasonable management. But when the downturn comes, that's the only solution we have to cut down on the welfare system and raise taxes: It's an unacceptable vision. It is a policy that does not meet baseline laws on public finances on sustainability, security, stability and stability. Finally, the 1st smaller points under the emphasis of ASI, which cling well to the Union's policies that trust economic stability and social well - being must be used in a twofold way by the government. On one hand, the government's money lines up on the income side. However, there will be some major improvements, including in the field of health and aging, housing and social security and support of children's families by means of targeted, financial measures. Economic stability is important, but social stability is also important. These two must be together. It's not to be seen in this policy of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u159	President wants less of it. A senator and a whole body of council members at the Synod of Congress that here we refer to the minister with the address. Ministers and senators. Senators.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u160	A respectable president. This committee opinion now has peculiar senators, which I have seen for a long time, and it will not be better if it is read here by means of proponents. First, critical. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson of this financial policy for conservativeity. Then he gives a witness. A senator at our conference of councils left green at our last financial policy, where we criticize too conservative policy and then he comes back to criticize us for relaxing the maintenance phase right now. [[Up front.]] Dear boy. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson, can't you make up your mind? [[Up front.]] Oh, baby. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einarsson...
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u161	Let's make some noise in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u162	...is there a chance that I may be allowed to give this speech here in peace? [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u163	The president requested a sound in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u164	It has become rather difficult to see a certain member of the council that his new tactics in government resistance seem primarily to be about to go forward trying to give a speech from this pontu. I just want to know why. A senator I'm having a word with. The talks we had about the last financial policy - I recognize them, I thought a few of them - were primarily dealing with the legal spending roof that created the great policy that I called starving here, and thank you very much. A senator is eager to quote that excellent word. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u165	President wants less of it. At the end of time, a senator directs to the council members to give a speaker a sound, especially when there are many objections, this is a short period of time. Senators would like to make good use of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u166	Madam President. Yes, incoherent? As we look at maintenance, it is not enough just to look at the cost side. The income side must also be looked at. The left greens have called for more expenses, but at the same time, they have stated that the process is reduced. It's a lack of restraint. That is irresponsible. I'd like to redirect a question. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttirsson Proppé to support the reduction of income tax as this has been proclaimed? On the contrary to the advantage swing, and across the way, his goal is to increase the equation. And why is this policy, which, in the opinion of the majority of stakeholders, is suddenly the policy that he can sign in a few months after changing sides, so to speak?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u167	A respectable president. I'm sorry to hear that. A senator does not trust to answer the questions I ask him. Rather, he needs to use the little time he has here to turn the problem around and direct questions to me. This may not be surprising. No why. A senator has spoken as much about the left green since this government began its business. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson I thank him for his attention. She's beautiful, we're flattered. We know you care about us. I made it my pleasure to count, this opinion is 2,333 words, 796 of them are quoted in the debate of our senators left green on a completely different financial agenda. And then the values of the phrases are like, "Well, that's what it is. - I have to admit, I don't understand it as a Senate document. We criticized earlier financial policies for this legal fee. It was an additional and had nothing to do with public financial laws. Hv. Since a senator was not then in a church hall, it is a kindly and obligated to inform him about it. What's changed now is that we don't have it legal anymore. The financial conditions of the law alone are strict enough. Now it's a backtracer as a swinger. [[The president calls.]] In case of a moment. A senator can't tell the difference between this and I can't help him at the time I have here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u168	Madam President. It shows that the parts have turned upside down. I've always thought of myself as a right jar, but I'm suddenly talking more like a left-hand green man than a left-green senator. It is in my opinion that the senators of the left green have lost their way. I quote your own words in which you were very clear and critical of your previous course, which is similar to what you are offering now. With regard to the charge roof: Yes, the charge roof was withdrawn from its policy. But what do the left green make up a budget? They're calling for the fee rule again. It is in a committee study that covers more of the legal committee. You're calling for the charge roof back in the Committee opinion that Bjarkey writes on. It's a peculiar political bitch I don't understand. You fought the charge roof, evidently got out of the policy, and now you're calling for it back to the Commission's commission. So, Mrs. President, what kind of tour is this outfit?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u169	The president reminds us of the rules to address members of Congress and Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u170	A respectable president. It was interesting at least to hear this passage, and I must use this opportunity to remind you that since the publication of financial policy, we've left dozens or at least tens of them. ... ononeothertttwentymen's contracts on an excellent set. The labour market partners have considered their contracts and have extended them, not the activated revision, because there was no reason for this in themselves. In addition to this, we have received a contribution from the Federal Bank that did not increase in growth despite all these doom - day predictions of what would follow the financial policy. I just want to call out that instead of what. A senator is reading up from old discussions about other financial policies, but the person involved here is more aware of the taxes he calls after rising on the land and any expenses he thinks should have been financed in this program. I can't see in this committee anything but a list of other agents. [[The president calls.]] I think he might be better aware of his case of the changes in the income and remuneration he wants to see happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u171	Madam President. In terms of collective agreements, I would like to first thank the labour market employees for making this decision, not the highest. Secretary of finance for the peace that was achieved there. Of course, peace in a workforce is very important. I agree with that. There was only mention of the Sentencing Bank. There was one review I didn't mention on my review. The news of this financial policy is exactly a warning from the lack of adherence to policy. About income routes. The Union's lawsuit made it very clear where we want to see the income to finance hospitals, child support, interest improvements. We want to raise the resource costs. We'd like to look at a modified capital tax. We want to put on a income-related resource tax and we want to make more money from foreign tourists. It is not reasonable to say that we are making rich when it comes to ideas about strengthening the financial foundation of the State. That is exactly what almost any stakeholder is calling for: Strengthen the state's income base. Stop believing in this nonsense that no matter what the situation may be, taxes should always be lowered. Because it's the wrong way and wrong economics. We in society, the nation, have to get wasted on this. Bad economy today means we're going to get wasted on this in the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u172	A respectable president. It may be added that from the beginning of the financial policy, economic forecasts have been dropped in terms of the situation in which we are in the economy. But the senator mentions resource expenditure. Now the figures are telling us that instead of the 10% that the resource budget has been extracting from the fishing industry for the past decade, we are probably close to 201⁄225% at the moment. That's why I'm calling for what I'm doing. A senator explains how much he would want to increase the payment of the fishing road. How many billions or billions of dollars are we discussing there in the fiscal tax? It's good to see you, too. A senator talking about? Is it a 30% capital tax or 40% fiscal tax announced by the United States? I think it's odd that when the tax is available today, they don't trust to add a number of these big words about the lack of income. The same goes for tourists. Where's it going, anyway? A senator taxing the tourists and how much?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u173	Madam President. I present myself as a right hook. Now I'm not in the role of being left green, now I may have become more right than the highest. Minister Bjarni Benediktsson. I want the market to decide. I want the market to set the amount of resources. The Independence Party National Meeting recently concluded... he concluded that freedom of competition should be the order of the world. [[Up front.]] But when it comes to fishing and agriculture, no, there must be no competition. Why can't we have the market or the arrangement in the fishing field so that resources simply go to an auction? [[Up front.]] Then it's just the market itself that decides the price. Well, then I don't have to decide, or I don't have to decide. Minister. Why does he mistrust markets when it comes to special interests, when it comes to the major industry, when it comes to the core of this class, which is well - known to belong to its deepest class? Let's let the markets figure out what to do. With the financing tax. While 5% of the Icelanders have as much as the other 95%, there is certainly room to raise capital taxes and put a wealth tax on. [[Up front.]] [[For example, consider: What is the cost?]] Just read older speeches.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u174	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I must have the opportunity to make comments with this talk and to stick to the discussion. The budget is there. And because I've said it before, it was very helpful reviews. Hv. A senator referred to some comments, including the comments of the Association of Industrialism, which I referred to in my speech and found very good. Hv. In his speech, a senator referred to the Society's Association of Industrials as saying that no country within OECD had gone through such a swing as Iceland, in fact, the crown's real interest rates on prices. You're absolutely correct, and it's a good review that we have a strong ordeal here. But we're talking 15 years back. It's hardly a policy to get laid, five years into the future with a positive outcome and a plan to reduce debt.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u175	Madam President. I think it's a little strange that people keep saying that reviews are useful, they're careful, and there's a lot in them, etc., and then they decide that a more part of the budget is going to ignore all the tips in these useful and careful comments. Why is that? I've asked the chairman of a budget committee before, but I didn't get any answers. If these were such helpful reviews, why didn't we follow them? For the walk, there's been a difference. A senator did not understand it. Strong gangs are not necessarily a problem. A poor score is not necessarily a problem, yes, for some people, it depends on where you're in the economy. The problem is the swing. The swing is a problem. One minute you're walking too strong, one minute too weak. That is what the Industrial Association points to, and we in the United States have long noted that it is the crown's gang, that is so much of the fact that our standard of living is not better than it is. It's not a raise in pay, as some have. Congress officials have pointed out and warned that we cannot raise our salary, that we need to maintain our balance in this regard. Instead, let us take the matter of how a dollar affects the public in this country. But there seems to be talk that a few members of the Parliament, especially members of the Independence Party, are afraid to go on.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u176	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. So we'll stick to this review, and it also shows that a real - life swing has helped to adjust the economy to large farms. But, of course, it was convenient. A senator does not review this aspect of his story. I'd like a later answer to the review of the Association of Professionals, because of that. A senator noted that there would be no objection to taxes. Five important factors to keep in mind are the reviews of the Association of Economics, which include the need to keep in mind when the policy of public finance is established. that in Iceland they collect some of the highest taxes among developed countries and that we should look forward to not establishing Iceland as a high tax state. I want to ask you why. A senator who right-hands if he doesn't want to cut down insurance bills in this business environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u177	Madam President. First thing about the gangs. It's a misunderstanding to think that there's a huge economy in the swing of the crown. Walking rocks are no magic solution to a problem facing the Icelandic economy. There's always someone who pays the bill for gangfalls, it's the public. That's a story Icelandic home and business know pretty well. Walking rocks are not a free magic solution, far from it. Therefore, we should stop viewing it as an option that the export branches can be lowered and the exports will be saved. But in the meantime, inflation goes up, and insured borrows as well. About the IRS. We want the North American welfare and systems here. It costs money. As a politician, I am not afraid to say that if we are going to place more money in hospitals and schools, we need to raise our taxes. Some taxes can be reimbursed, such as the insurance bill, I'm not making a full-scale increase in all taxes. I think the insurance bill is just the tax that comes to a decrease, perhaps considering that it prefers SMEs. A step could be taken in this regard. Such exports, we're totally open to it. However, it should be noted that the percentages of government expenditures in Iceland are the lowest of all North countries, so it is not proper to call Iceland high tax states when we compare ourselves with the North countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u178	A respectable president. I have one question for why. A senator with regard to taxes. He is concerned that there are no taxes now, but when certain taxes are mentioned, there are no suggestions in the United States. But then I ask why. A senator: When can taxes be reduced? Didn't do that to the United States when she took over and went to the government himself. When she was poor, she increased taxes and changed the tax system 112 times. There was also a resolution in structure that can be clearly seen, e.g. On the road today. We have great tax returns, but we must never reduce taxes. Do not deceive by saying that this is not the right time, it seems that the United States' policy is never to be lowered by any tax.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u179	Madam President. We're supposed to lower taxes, including... to stimulate the economy, at that point in the economy, that's such a good rule. To talk about when the Conspiracy was in government and how we hated our tax bitch, wait, what were the circumstances then? I'm just gonna think about it for why. Senator. At that time, the 400 billion state's tail after one piece is globally big and the next year, followed by 218 billion. I'm going to make this right, that's what I'm going to do. That's the first year of 218 billion, and about 200 billion. About 400 billion tails in two years. Of course, this angle had to be financed, cleaning up the mismanagement that had taken place during the collapse. As for the Conspiracies suggestions, we went over this in the budget, just look it up, we named some tax institutions, so there are certainly some suggestions or ideas at least. Of better revenues than this government's worth. I'd like to ask you if I have a problem. A senator against me, how's it going? A senator funding 260 billion dollars. her party was preaching last weekend? 260 billion. surgery. That's more than what we spend on the health system all, 10 percent of the land production level is 260 billion. Stand by your own words.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u180	A respectable president. Now you could say that. A senator would be somewhat at odds with himself in his speech. He comes up here and says to lower taxes when the economy needs to be encouraged. When do we need to stimulate the economy? When would the economy have had to be stimulated? Yeah, I'm asking. He tried to justify these 112 tax increases when the economy was most needed to be promoted. I think the answer is simple, the Consequences will never reduce taxes, or they will be the result of paying taxes on people or businesses, but they want us to be a high tax state and be proud of it, want to increase more and more money on people and companies.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u181	Madam President. In the government established by the Conspiracy, major economic collapses were being cleaned up. At that time, it was a so - called mixed way, which the World Bank has particularly praised Iceland for having gone. There was a mixed way of cutting and taxing, it wasn't chosen one way. That is exactly what has been done internationally. The Union government decided to increase taxes rather than shut down hospitals or limit access to higher schools and universities, as the independent party did when setting the 25 - year rule. People see in it how the politicians show up. We had to make a decision on how we were going to finance a government fund, yet we kept the minimal means of transportation and education going. I think that most people who are reasonable see that it did quite well. We in this room and in this chair need to be able to answer how we are going to finance an election. Finally, I remind you that there was one political party that promised the most, and that was the Independence Party. It was on your website in the process of election: The Independence Party promises 100 billion on infrastructure. [[The president calls.]] How are you going to finance it? No answers have been made except for some talk about increasing cakes and such.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u182	Madam President. I'm sweet and at least I'm fine. the obligation to apologize for personal appearances. Of course, since I was in school, I have been struggling with a bad habit. I'll try to watch out for that in the future. But I'd also like to remind Mrs. President that she's supposed to be dealing equally with everyone in this room. If you're sitting here at the highest. The secretary of finance, who constantly talks while others are talking, is well - known to Madam President. It's also the minister's. Madam President is the president of the entire council, not of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u183	Madam President. I like what you're doing. Einarsson The President's conference board makes a comment. It was very prominent here at the end of the day. The president had a handsome rebuke. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson for calling in acted like she didn't hear at the highest. The Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs and the Chairman of the Independence Party when he began to shout up into the air. Here, we members of Congress must insist that a single value for everyone, and I make this serious comment, Madam President, to the conference board.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u184	The President thanks for the tip and insists that here, of course, we should reassign the figures and give them what they want. Conventioners who stand in the speaker's stand made a good sound to present their case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u185	A respectable president. This will be considered in the Committee on a proposal to consecrate economic policy for 2018/22022 from the 2nd smaller parts of the budget board. On January 23 of this issue, a financial committee arranged for the government's policy to be covered. There were 28 reports and 13 reviews from various sources. The committee was also handed over the opinion of a financial conference on finance policy, but legally it is the role of a financial body to determine whether financial policy meets the baseline laws on public finance. The budget conference was scheduled for 11 meetings. There were visitors who had different periods of time. A total of some ten hours were taken by visitors. There was not much time left in the discussion of financial policy within the Committee. But only on financial policy. In December of the year, it was reported that the budget for financial policy is faulty. They expect stability in political and economic environments and elections at regular intervals, preferably during springtime. Thus, a relatively shorter schedule and some less attention span could be expected to be put together in the case of normal preparation. However, the government shall shape financial policies presented at the General Assembly as soon as possible, but there will be room until the next budget is donated. In December of the previous year, both budgetary and financial policies needed to be revised in very short periods of time. Both the budget and financial policies bear this clear evidence. In addition, there is insufficient experience with the implementation and implementation of government funds, although three financial policies have been proposed as many years. Under the laws on government finance, economic policy is designed to be a targeted role, to put government policies on the scope, development and development of possessions, the debt and the long - term debt of public and public bodies, to no less than five years of age. It should also be followed by a report on the financial agenda that explains how the baseline laws on public finances will be followed, both in terms of the development of paying, tax policy and other government revenues. Money policy has certain conditions. It's listed in Level 7. the law on public finances, and it stipulates that financial policy aims should conform to conditions for the overall balance of a five - year period as well as the setting of a lower limit for each year. The upper limit is also set up to 30% of the gross domestic product on the total debt off the pension debt and several other factors. The last condition is then an obligation of debt, how to reduce debt if they are above debt. These conditions set up a legal framework not only for economicism but also for financial and financial matters. In addition, there are also baseline values. The basic value of a law on public finances is the basis for which governments should support financial policy. I'll reiterate it. Therefore, it is important to be clear about what they have baseline when considering financial policy. The five values in the public financial law are defined according to the following definition. First of all: Self - control, which involves public commitments, is more manageable to the short and long term, and does not place unreasonable burdens on future generations. Second, caution, which aims at balanced balance between earnings and paying a price and failure to make decisions or circumstances that can have unexpected and negative consequences. Third, the stability involved in promoting public finances contributes to economic balance. Fourth: A key to avoiding unexpected or unexpected changes from current policies and programmes for the development of public funds. Fifth, and most important, data that include the setting of clear and measurable targets for long - term public financial development according to baseline values. Regular comparisons of target and effectiveness should be made with clear scales. According to the Treaty on Public Financial Policy, financial policies according to the baseline values listed above are to be confirmed, but in the recommendations offered by the Council on Economic Policy, it is said that the Council confirms that financial policy is consistent with the baselines and conditions laid on the government laws. It was a pretty direct quote. I dropped a paragraph with my list on it. But this text is part of the proposal, and if the Council confirms the proposal, this confirmation will fulfill itself. Therefore, it must be the job of the Generals to analyze the financial policy from baseline law on public finance as it is the role of the government to support the priorities of the policy and the financial body then to make a professional assessment of whether financial policies meet the criteria set by the Baseline and the support of the government for it. If members of Congress agree to the Parliament's declaration of financial policy, they also confirm that this is their convictions and that their policy is baseline and meets all the conditions outlined in the laws on public finances, in particular in Article 6. and 7th pars. The law where baseline values and the criteria for total balance, total debt and debt ratio are found. The budget policy is adopted by the General for five years. While it is the role of the government to promote financial policy and to support the conclusion that the policy established is in progress, it is Generalis to review the issues and take a measure of quality control. The question of whether financialism is the primary focus and support of evidence such as this must be the main question that the Senate needs to answer. I'd like to agree with the opinion of the financial Council of the Committee, but only the reviews received by the committee. In the financial council, there are three nobles and three officers. For example, when it came to financing the financial policy of the years 2018,2022, one of the nobles had left the council. There was no difference or anything like that, it was out of necessity, made in perfect harmony. In view of the financial Council, it is stated that all stewards, both nobles and security men, worked equally on the council's opinions. In the past, all stewards have come to work evenly and must consider increasing the number of main members of the council in order to reflect the work effort required to achieve the highest esteem that financial advice has won. It's strange that the guards are doing the nobility job. It would be natural for nobles to simply increase. As in this case, if someone had to resign, he would be there. This should be kept in mind that the laws on government finance require that financial counsel have only two weeks in order to give the impression that financial or financial policies are submitted. This time, financial policy was put forward on December 14 and gave credit to financial counsel on December 29. A consideration of the dates shows that there is an accomplishment. The main tips of the financial Council are to assess the effectiveness of policy-making on the economy. Otherwise, financialism has no national impact. It is based on the national ideals that are proposed, its policy being targeted, but if there is no impact on financial policy, policy has no bearing on national policy. Then it's only zero. It follows the national forecast. Alternatively, the current policy framework can put the government in a particular straitjacket of its own policy, and it would be more convenient to set goals in a particular range rather than just one fixed number. A financial body is concerned that national interest models are very uniform in Iceland. As a result, national forecastings of different peoples are very similar, leading to a more uniform discussion, as well as the possibility that all will make the same mistakes. Even though a few discussions were made, the financial Council's repeated statement made that the economy was adjusted. The Department of Economics said that such a presentation is complex and dependent on various warnings, that the economy correction would never be accurate until the end of time, e.g. when it was certain what the economy would have been like. However, this should not prevent the release of the economic rhythm corrected yield. Such a practice requires only a disciplined discussion based on the basis of such productions. The financial Council emphasized the need for use of ecodynamic-corrected yields in light of baseline stability, but because the Ministry had stated that there was an analysis of the economic rhythm-corrected element, it might also be reasoned that the baseline transparency was not met unless they published it. And the Ministry has that information, but it doesn't give it to the council. Because of previous experience and because there is a lack of visual analysis that would increase the credibility of economic policy and support the claims of smooth landing. In the past, financial advisers have made comments over the lack of analysis of the production effect of investments. It is impossible to predict whether an addition to investments will lead to excessive demand and will depend entirely on whether the investment will lead to increased production. A financial body feels that consultation with rural society is a key factor in setting priorities where an important part of the development of rural society is being carried out. A review of the financial Council draws attention to the proclamation that income and expenses of the government are to be made at the rate of the growth of GDP. This means that if you maintain a maintenance level in a situation where you have a high priority, you will require further government revenue, a cut-off, or a combination of both. In other words: If there's an increase in expenses for infrastructure while there's an increase in income and charge, then there's bound to be an increase in the name of the GDP on one of the public projects. In the opinion of financial advisers, if policy is the increase promised in financial policy, then it must mean that the responsibility is rolled over to the management of money if there is not an increase in revenue or in other projects. I've got an example for it. Here's me with two crowns. One is an old Armada from 1973, and the other is the current 1991 currency. In 1991, when the current amount of dollars was made, I would have needed 25 thousand of these. Now the 1991 dollar is still in effect, but I would need 70 thousand small floats to be as valid as current dollars. It is 70 meters of such small crowns, nearly the height of a Hallg Tower. Very interesting to think about. Very interesting and interesting to find them and think only about how money policy and money have been in Iceland in recent decades, not just in the last 15 years, as was said in the account of the Industrial Association. The big question is: Is financialism really based? In view of the financial Council, the role of the baseline bodies in the civil law on public finances is discussed. The nature of each one of them needs to be discussed. Then it is noted that there was a lack of formal firmness in the discussion of the baselines and that there are sometimes misinformations about them. The first step is to interpret and draw conclusions instead of explaining baseline values. An example is that of the government's interpretation of stability. According to one opinion, governments define the baseline stability of the production factors based on economic status, but stability under official financial law is essentially not about that. Stability is a key factor in the economic balance of public finances. Thus public finances must be considered to interact with the production capacity on the other hand, with demand and supply factors on the other hand. Both must be considered. Looking at financial policy reports, there are some problems with regard to baseline policy makers. For example, it is said to meet baseline values for firmness to promote financial policy. The management board is obliged to submit financial policy, and therefore, the procedure, to submit policy, may not be considered to meet any baseline value. It will always depend on the content of financial policy, on the policy taken by the government, on whether baseline levels are met or not. The content must be explained with baseline values to show that these values are met. For example, overall recovery is not strongly correlated with a 03/4 10% of GDP. It would violate the fact that it would be committed to promoting financial policy, if it included it. So it cannot be merely meeting baseline levels firmly by making policy contributions and the policy on such overall recovery, i.e. the fact that financial policy is presented is the only evidence that financial policy meets the baseline standard for firmness. There is nowhere else to try to explain that economicism meets the value of firmness. Stability is a common word in financial policy and is used 19 times. However, there is no explanation for the stability of financial policy. The word stability is used only as a goal, i.e. The purpose of economic policy is stability, with reference to past years' stability, that it is an important goal to maintain economic stability. It can be debated that we have had economic stability in recent decades. I refer to the example of the crowns earlier. Selfishness is not as popular as stability. As an example of how we deal with the sustainable development of financial policy, the following words from financial policy can be quoted by the President's permission: The economic stability should be established by economic management, which supports the money policy and contributes to sustainable, varied employment and general well-being. It's turning the target of the baselines upside down. It's supposed to set policy and then explain why policy is sustainable, not just saying that policy should be sustainable. It doesn't say exactly what the course is. There are many ways that sustainability in a variety of activities, such as the diversity of jobs. How Would You Answer? What's the policy? Yes, the short-term benefits of using natural quality are to be stopped. There's one thing we can call it. That sounds very logical, but it doesn't tell us what quality of life is being used in that way, if anyone, or whether it works on natural quality or not. It's a rather useless policy if there's nothing to stop. If there is something that needs to be stopped, it would be very good to know what it is. The most effective policy on sustainability is the aim of reducing the debt and structure of a national fund. The official situation, however, is that if a debt is to be dropped by law on government funds, it has to be brought to nothing. According to the loan agreement, to keep markets open and so on, a certain debt exchange has to be maintained. So that would not be a sign of a baseline sustainableity being met by acceptable criteria. It must be explained why the decrease in debt leads to stability. Some may feel that it is obvious and others may not, but it is the government's duty to explain it. The structure of a national fund that will be funded by the regular interest of a partner in the land may well be a sustainable operation, but there is no explanation of how it will achieve its objectives on sustainability. No explanation again. Caution is as common in financial policy as it is. It's just said that policy is cautious because the state's place is more solid than ever, and the goal is to strengthen the infrastructure and reduce debt. The definition of financial security is, however, that decisions need to be well thought-up and supported by a comprehensive risk analysis and a long-term and short-term impact assessment. It could be said that presenting financial policy with as little notice as it was about the value of baseline caution based on a well - thought - out and pooled risk analysis. If the evidence is that presenting financial policy is firm, it must have to happen without going against other baselines at the same time, as careful. Last baseline, transparency, is the most unpopular baseline in financial policy, and is used only three times, once in a list of baseline values to be met, once as a quote of public financial laws, that this needs to be done at one of the other, and finally says that it is required that the account be set in a certain way and that it is transparent. It is not even an effort to explain how financialism meets the transparency criteria. In addition, translucency is defined only in a very narrow fashion, that the policy is set out in accordance with an international accounting standard, and that the aim of the policy is easy to understand and simple to evaluate the progress and implementation of the policy by regular comparison with the clear criteria. It refers to an order of living, debt, and debt that is set down as minimal and then no more history. For example, when answering the question about the value of financialism, it may be possible to say that the goals that led to the basic policy may have been thought of at baseline. However, it is not even an attempt to explain how the policy meets the baseline value. The argument, however, is the key factor in the development of financial policy. It should be possible to read why a national fund guarantees sustainableity, why it is safe to pay off debt, why it is committed to making policy. Someone might feel the answer to one of these clearly, that he does not have to guess. But the answer to the big question is clear and clear. Money policy is not based. The claim in the synonym that by permission of the President, the Council concluded that this financial policy is consistent with the baselines and conditions set in 2 mg. Section 6. and 7th pars. The law on government finance is therefore not true, even if the General would vote for this proposal. It is in the sense that we have proposed a paradox, namely that the government can provide this report on how economic policy meets the baseline values so that the Council can take sides with this argument. That argument is totally lacking. It is best described by saying: Our policy is firm because we gave it to you. Which is completely ridiculous. The purpose of financial policy has been discussed above, the discussion of the Committee and the reviews and opinions received. I'll be back in the second talk for sure because I have a bit of material left. A question has also been answered at the General Assembly, i.e. Is the financial policy based on basics? I mean, it should just be the same with this opinion, but any other thing would be good to go over. A financial body criticized the implementation of financial policy and recommended that policy be placed on a certain level for each aspect of the policy, not just 1.4% of total survival for 2018, but perhaps on a scale of 1.33/41.5%. To be sure, the number shown in policy has to be normal. However, it can also be assumed that the aims set out must be both the minimum and the maximum that governments intend to achieve, i.e. that overall recovery will not be 1.6% in 2018 because the target is 1.4%. The same could be said of the debt, the target of the A State Fund for 2019 is 25%. This means that our debt rate in 2019 will not be 23%. It'll be 25%. There are no boundaries on these numbers. There's no number out there. This must mean in financial policy that governments are going to reach a 25% debt rate in 2019 instead of 23. Not 26, not 19, 25. That's it. The reason is that such anomalies must have an impact on the economy and the future economy. The decision to make such changes must conflict with the baseline value of firmness and caution. The reason that economic policies need to be sound, to say the least. Whether such a decision to make such changes from a current financial policy is, in fact, a review of financial policy on Article 10. it's a government law. If so, the financial adviser's review of such a proposal would need, i.e. If governments are going to subsidize debt beyond what is set up in financial policy, they are turning away from financial policy. And nothing can be removed or changed unless something amazing comes up, and financial advice needs to be considered. That is why it should be considered to set a number, not just one number. The financial policy shows that governments intend to take on increased maintenance and construction of infrastructure. Special attention will also be given to promoting the health and education systems of the country. At the same time, a tax decline from the lower income tax level and a reduction of the insurance bill is expected. In addition, public income is expected to increase to a large extent in terms of gross domestic product production, resulting in a similar proportion of GDP to 2018 throughout the period. The last item in the overview is a decrease in debt, resulting in less interest costs. However, if income is to remain stable despite tax declines, it is to be expected that a rise in production will be expected to meet the increase in income. The benefits made by the government are unclear on these issues and on how much interest costs go down. This is logical support that should appear in the financial policy, at least some guess. Yet, there is a need to increase contributions to the long - term commitments of a pension that would somehow do so. It was, for example. Talks about an increase of 2 billion a year to long - term bonds. However, the total recovery of the total government is being reduced at the same time, with about 3 billion U.S. by 0.1%. The results of this example, a decrease in income due to tax decline, a higher income due to production growth, higher income increase more than economic growth; this must be the way, the lower interest costs and finally the lower yield, the amount to be used for maintenance and development of infrastructure and health and education systems. There is no analysis to indicate what that amount can be, either optimism or pessimism. Section 2 will address the aim of setting up increased force in the maintenance and structure of the infrastructure as well as the promotion of health and education systems. There have been some suggestions, e.g. ... weexpensivedsof 2018, in that direction. The text of financial policy, however, is unclear in terms of the extent that the public can place in these important projects. It also becomes a concern for many reporters and financial advisers about the lack of conceptual anomalies and scenarios. In fact, financial policies report that the Ministry of Economics has made a special deviation based on a more conservative profile than the economic projector since November 2017. It expected a smaller service export and that employment investment would be added, as well as higher rates of pay and unemployment. According to this estimate, the rate of growth in the percentage lower back in 2018 would be economic, and the effect would be negative and continued throughout the period of gross income gains. The Ministry's interpretation was similar to that of the Court Bank's deviations from the same time. Interestingly, there is no further comment on the impact of this abnormal forecast on financial policy; in fact, it is simply said that it was made by an aberration without a more precise basis, an outcome, and a future effect. It would be reasonable to show the impact of predictions and blunders on financial policy in order to assess its tolerance to economic change. Additional information on the risk factors laid out in this projection is needed. It is not sufficient to look to systemic risks only. Social risks are just as important. Social tolerance limits for tourism include e.g. a high risk factor. The Icelandic article will be reviewed and the fact that the local population's tolerability to tourists will be diminished. Stress on nature, which has developed to the limit of endurance, is seen in some areas. In addition, illegal activities within the tourism industry need to be looked forward to increasing levels. In particular, the Ministry looks at the concept of growth in tourism compared with international development. It's fine as far as it goes. However, due to the high rates of pay paid, many tourism companies in this country have not been seen to have been seen to notice that there is light support. In euros, pay costs have increased by up to 50%. The majority rightly point out that the vast number of airports offered to Iceland is at the hands of two airlines, thus increasing the risk of travel. Since this is a major risk factor, it is necessary to evaluate the risk factor in the interpretation of the abnormality. It cannot be seen from the Ministry. For the sake of financial policy, there is no direct influence and reference that there is no particular prediction of success in the Economics concept. Many chroniclers expressed concern about the success of the real estate. Thus, a major factor in the financial policy has to be seen in the fact that there is no historical drawing of potential stage images of the arctic gangs of the Crown. We live in a small economy where mood swings have great influence, and we must be able to prepare for these swings. I will review more details in this committee later than under the heading I wrote, Birgir Þórarinsson and Ólafur Ísleifsson. The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson was a meeting of the Committee as an officer of the hearing and is in agreement with the opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u186	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a good and informative speech. It is extremely important that when we are in this place in the economy, we bring in good soil so that when we get down from the top of the economy, we walk on the rest rather than on service to those who need the State's service. The government's independent party financial policy, forwards, and left greens is not much different from the financial policy of an independent party, the restoration and the future. However, the financial policy we address here is less responsible, since income - stock routes are left behind and followed by the rest more than the previous government was going to do with its financial policy. A financial body points out that there is a need for government financial policy and the Federal financial policy of the Federal Bank to bring together to ensure stability in the economy. In the course of the previous government, the importance of this has been emphasized more than in the policy we now address. I'm asking why. A senator, when comparing the financial policies of these two governments, sees it as a significant difference. If he reads together the criticisms of a financial body last year and then the criticisms that financial councils present in financial policy, whether there is a significant difference between the two cops.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u187	A respectable president. Funds for 2018 made it clear that it was very important to strengthen the income supplies. We based on these three income stakes, which would be very large, and in fact, very falling when the economy hit a swing. That's exactly what we're doing now. If we look at national interests early 2017, 6% of the interest rate was predicted for 2017. He fell down to 3.8%. This was predicted to be 3.1% of interest to 2018. It is a national forecast that goes down to 2.9, so we've gone from 6% interest to 2.9%. We're in a bit of a down cycle, I'd think. Maybe that means a small tax reduction would be convenient for a down cycle operation, I don't know. We didn't get any expert opinion about it. As far as the body of this financial policy is last, I think it would be numerically, in terms of the survival, etc., no matter what government would be in power, the numbers would be very similar. These are large numbers in proportion to GDP that it might be 1.1 for one government and 1.2 for the next government. I think those numbers will always be very similar. The course itself. But what is not done, either in this financial policy or at last, is that the objective, to achieve the figures set out, the means of living, etc., is not supported. It's the opinion of a financial body both times. In this way they are exactly the same, they are not logical.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u188	Mr. President. Hv. A senator spoke of a baseline in his speech. I was glad to hear that. A senator realizes that the baseline values are to be equal in financial order, that baseline values should not be evaluated any less than the financial rule. I was glad to hear that. However, the law code marked "No. " 3 For financial policy - I have not been on a budget and do not know how the discussion has been conducted, but it seems far from the fact that this law is transparent. I can't figure out what it means to see that the development of the public activity throughout the period will be in a way that contributes to economic stability. Didn't they talk about this on the Committee? Well, maybe. A senator explained to me what the greater part and the government are going to do to make sure that this will be an economic stability?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u189	A respectable president. Like I said, visitors came in about During the ten - hour period and the financial policy, little or nothing was discussed outside a guest's home. So, no, it wasn't discussed. However, it is stated in some committee colors and actually the financial policy itself that an increase in public investments is expected to be 5.2% per year. This is a relative increase in GDP. The centenarian may be sufficient to achieve this, but it is said that the government's investment will keep the economy at an average of 5.2% a year. I don't know what's out there, whether 5.2% is holding on to the economy or whether it's an increase because it's also said in policy that it should be added to industrial projects at the same time. There must be an increase beyond the economic growth, and the growth of the entire economy will increase to the interior, and everything else will be in a state of resolution. That's what I see don't fit. [[The president calls.]] I still don't understand, it hasn't been explained.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u190	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir For extensive reviews and good things, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear Hv. A senator got a good deal of talk about baselines and how they were treated in financial policy. Has a what? A senator's opinion of this, or he can help me to understand the bottom line. The minister of finance and his Ministry take such little account of the way things are done with their baselines. Especially in view of the fact that when the last financial policy was submitted, comments on a very similar trend were also not complete. But we're starting a new course and a new course and a new course, and I'm hoping we'll learn a little bit about this. Has a what? One senator explained why we have not learned the difference between these two financial policies in this regard? Is this something about politics or how it is? The indications have been very clear. They are clearly not taken into account, neither from the last heading to this nor from the treatment. The legal committee that handles the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u191	A respectable president. No, I don't know why they don't try to support policy from baseline. I don't know why they don't even try it. I don't know why the highest part either. The Secretary of Economics and Economics isn't here. But I've guessed before that it's so good to have just an empty check. If they do not explain what they will do, they can do anything. That's when the Senate's surveillance and especially its surveillance role will be extremely difficult. We can't go and say, "But you guys were going to do this and this thing that you didn't. Because when we're being approached with this sort of financial policy that isn't logical, not a policy that's explained how to meet the baseline, we can't follow up and say: this and this happened, you're using the methods you said you were going to do, but it didn't happen, it didn't screw up somehow, it didn't come back to us with an explanation that there was an unforeseen situation, and you were going to work with the council on things. The measures we made will not come to resolve the situations that we faced. It can always happen. There may be an abnormal situation that was not expected in aberrant forecasting or scrawl analysis, which may not happen. This structural analysis should reduce the likelihood of such a situation to come up. But we don't have one. Well, we have only one report, but we can't even see it. Something's not quite right about that. I'd like to see an attempt to back up financial policy. That's why I want to bring her back to the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u192	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I'd just like to review some of the key financial tips that are said to include, by permission of a president: However, soft landing of the economy is an exception rather than a rule in the Icelandic economy. Systemic use of stratospheric analysis (apparently) - like cognitions A senator named here - ◯ Figures increase policy credibility and facilitates its review in the light of baseline values. Then again, with the permission of the president, he says: ▪ Governments are proclaiming the continuation of budget increase, which is not comparable in recent decades. The increase in costs, which also includes maintaining the maintenance phase in the run-in conditions, requires further revenues or cuts from other expenditures or combinations. If neither government do so, it really means that they are concerned about the responsibility of money management, otherwise unchanged. That's a very clear tip. I kept asking myself, " How is this going to go to the highest level? ' Secretary of finance and his ministry and what. A legal committee may somehow pass those warning words. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u193	President. This soft landing often came up, and none, not one client, predicted a smooth landing. Nobody knows how to get soft landing in the economy. You see, no one has done that before. Never. That would be very strange. What other sources of information were saying was that no one has predicted a downturn. It's not gonna happen. People don't predict downturns. How, then, can people expect that and plan for soft land if they are not even predicting minus? As for the expansion, this is exactly the example of the money, how this ends with the money issues, and the example of the Navy and the current crown shows exactly how we've always wondered about this problem, that poor economy actually ends here, which is the size of the Hallg Monster Church, if they are stacked on top of each other. So this is not just a problem over the 15 years referred to by the Industrial Association, i.e. The gang swings problem. [[The president calls.]] These are also problems with the future because of this indication. It's always a matter of money. [[The president calls.]] So you can't just say, "No, this is a future policy. " [[The president calls.]] This won't be a problem then. [[The president calls.]] Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u194	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's conduct and a fine talk, both in form and in material. When I talk about the form, I talked about why. A senator here at the beginning of the course to follow. I just want to stay with it. True, financial tips came, but it is proper to be able to establish that policy meets all the conditions of Article 7. ... abouttheexpectation,commitanceanddepending rule. The financial adviser also pointed out that it was desirable to follow analysis. The subject was largely discussed at that time. Senator. A majority of the shares were included in that indication. This was criticized here in the last course too. Policy modeling is essentially part of the process. We will soon receive a national budget coverage, and in the implementation of financial policies, these baselines are to be followed at 6 p.m. taking into account the conditions set out in Article 7. I wondered, " What is my understanding? ' A senator states that the strategy was accompanied by confirmation; we accept it in the greater part, and we have experts'statement of reformation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u195	A respectable president. I am kind and obliged to try to explain this. I'll read it as a foundation case, where ◯It's a very serious tip in a stock language, it's just that. In the Law, however, the word is used for the term "shall " (U.S.A.). I don't necessarily see that a financial adviser puts it on a decisive basis. I've just never seen it in such writing, that it's a violation of the official financial law that says that the report is being followed by a paper. In fact, that's what I have to say when I compare the law at the moment with the President's permission: In financial policy, it should be confirmed that the policy is according to those baselines -- and that it follows its report on the material. When I consider the financial board, because the report is not in the policy format - I think we can easily agree that it doesn't require much reading skills to paper through financial policy and to see that this report is not available - so it's a foundation case for my opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u196	V.E.G. President. I don't think I'm here to fancy an understanding of the words could be a good idea. We discussed on financial recommendations to improve the development of a more effective report on how policy and financial plans will follow baseline, as the law on official financial matters says. I agree with what you're saying. A senator says that we get to see the more relevant evidence by the way the direction meets the baseline value. However, certain understanding can be provided that policy measures are followed, e.g. baseline self-sufficiency, which assumes that debt and interest burden are manageable at any given time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u197	A respectable president. I was asked for a definition, so I got it, there's no hairpieces in it. Government has a duty. Once a government has a obligation, it is the Senate to monitor that it meets these obligations. I'd like to see some logic. I can see that it can be reasoned that it meets the value of stability in reducing debt. It's just not explained, it's released. I took an example earlier. When we're down to this 30% share, and we're working at this debt-to-character target that the Ministry was talking about the need to have access to the market, if we're going to reduce debt and cut down access to markets, we'd be working against sustainability. I'd like to see your logic support, but it's not to be found. [[The president calls.]] That's my point.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u198	A respectable president. Before I give my speech, I am curious about whether the minister of finance is still in the house or if he has left.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u199	The president can tell that he is still in a house, for about 30 seconds ago he was here in the side room.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u200	Then I trust that he is somewhere listening with great inspiration to my indentation. It's easy to get lost in a complex technical discussion about financial policy and I think it's extremely important when we're discussing this basic policy of government not forgetting why this is done, why it's so important, why it's so important that it's so important that it's a good thing when the financial policy of a new government is developed and put forward and discussed in the council. It is that all of this contribution, the law on government finance, is the product of our learning career, this costly lesson from the collapse, of the part of the state's budget in the collapse that occurred in 2008, and how Congress, the political parties cross all over politics, united in the necessary improvements. We want the government's financial support to the economy in order to increase stability, lower interest levels, contribute to continued success, and prevent repeating the events that took place here in the fall of 2008. I remember precisely that I was in Finland in the fall of 2008 shortly after the collapse of a presentation at the Finnish money bank, which covered the key economics of Find in the leading of their own financial crisis, and thought to myself as I sat and listened to this review what would have been fine for many here, perhaps five to ten years earlier, since there was a great deal of fanfare there. But now we don't have that excuse. Now it's all very familiar sizes. We've been through this before, but still, we're clean and clear to repeat the same economic error we made. We're discussing technical issues such as start-of-the-art financial finance, baseline financial policy, and why it's so important, terms like self-sustaining, caution, stability, fixation, transparency. Of course, it is simple to get involved in these terms, becoming deeply involved in them. But what is really talking about? It is to say, the government's got to help us with the economy, we have to have some stability in them, there's gotta be somebody attached to the government of the government of the budget in order to protect us from repeated economic control alone. What is best presented in this context and has been repeated in this regard today, and above all, we can say as a more repeated theme in most well - beings if not all the reports on the policy are trustworthy, the economic forecasts being carried out, and the impact of financial policy itself on this economic environment. There is no question about how this government's financial policy will affect economic development. Perhaps even more important are the other aspects of the economy that challenge, labour market, money policy, and, above all, the long - term benefits of the financial wealth. What are we talking about with long - term benefits? Is it just a debt payment? No, it really is that long - term income depends on the expenses being set. It is repeated that in order to make a real careful assessment of the impact of this economic policy, it is lacking all contact with the government's political policy, what it means, what it has thought in its spending policy. Maybe that's what I'm staying at and worrying about most of all. For example, during the first decade of this century, economic failures were that, in an enormous interest, the expenses of the state's budget were growing as never before as they were reducing taxes. When the economy was well developed in 2007 and there was a change of government, instead of being careful at that point, it was a direct blow to the finish. The government of the United States and the Independence Party made up for what? I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, but I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. When you look at the declarations of this government, which have not been made except in one budget for the current year, and we're going to see a financial plan come forth soon, it seems that its policy is to beat the record of 2007, 2008, in an expansion. To quote from a 1974 song text, if I recall a proper and nice financial minister used for himself in another context of Yeou ain't sceneing yett to be. It seems to be the theme of the budget policy of this government. Consider 2007, from 2008. You may simply look at this with a sense of amazement and ask, " What exactly is the course? ' Last week, the highest was spoken. Prime Minister for impending tax increases, at the same time as the highest rate. Secretary of finance spoke of an impending tax down. In the end of the election, the Independence Party spoke of 100 billion injections in investments and other expenses. At their national meeting, the Independence Party speaks of the importance of cutting government expenditures down to 35% of national production, reaching 10 percentage points of cutbacks from today's 260 billion, as mentioned here. But it is quite clear that it is not the policy of this government, on the contrary, shall be raised even more significantly in the state budget. That's exactly what it's all about. It is quite clear that at current economic growth there is a possibility that this expansion will be possible. But as soon as the shoe is only scratched, even if it is only a little bit, we know from experience that the wealth of the state's budget is very narrow. The first thing that usually pays off is the private consumption, which is what is the most enriching factor in government funds and income tax, which is often or even closer to disappearing, though it is only a slight adjustment in economic growth, a so - called soft landing, which we have never experienced in the Icelandic economy. It is clear, and there is no matter what financial reviews we will consider, everywhere it is warned of the same thing. We're at the height of the economy. We're slowing down. We are not at the time when it is necessary to stimulate the economy. It is still more economic, but it is repeatedly being said to us: In these circumstances, we need to be careful about the government, not repeat the same mistakes as before. As you look at what has already happened in the past 25 years, tax pay per Iceland has increased from 1991 to 2016 or 2017 on the Summit and we are still increasing. All of this is under the strength of the Independence Party, which has been in the government for over 20 years or so in this quarter of the century. The fate of fate may have been determined that it took left control to clean up the payoffs on the right hand of the two leading directors nearly 20 years earlier. In a sense, you may wonder: " Is that really what needs next time? Is this what the Independence Party depends on, that some may come and clean up after him? Because it is quite clear that the Independence Party is not going to take any responsibility this time rather than the previous years. The dose should still be increased. I think it's totally possible to say when we look at the basic laws on government finance that this is not a sustainable policy for government policy. It is clear that the income of a government budget for the long term will not be enough for these expenses unless there is a significant increase in tax rates. However, it will be up to this government to let others do what the left government did here in 2009 -2013 need to increase taxes evenly and cut expenses considerably at the same time. The course also fails to resist the value of caution. It's quite clear that we're aggressor and we can't see where they're going. The government was able to increase the government budget to another dozen billion already planned if I recall correctly and announce at the same time the major budgets of the state's budget for 2018 and even a rapid and rapid press charge, a rapid increase in Kingdom spending can be said, in an increase in the annual budget of 2018, that it may not even have to be enough, but it is proclaimed that it will probably be necessary to save some handsome in terms of money in this year's budget to pay the government's interest. This isn't careful. This isn't a sustainable state thing. This means no stability. On the contrary, stability is being undermined and the responsibility for the economy is once again to one side of the economy, work market, and money policy. We know that the situation at work is very dangerous. Although the contracts have been extended this year to complete the collective agreements with the largest part of the public staff in the long run, we know from union leaders that the collective contracts will be very difficult to deal with. And the high-level declarations and promises of the government both rich are willing to cover collective agreements and the rich will want to expand their budgets very expensive, I predict when it comes to re-creating agreements at next year's conventions. You see, they sometimes have to keep their expectations down, not fantasizing them. The government has certainly endeavored to spit on expectations there. What will we see if we examine the comments of others, such as a financial body? It still points out that policy is not logical enough; it is not clearly explained how it affects key economics, what links it has to the government's political policy. In short, how will the economic policy being set aside for the next five years be affected on the economy and the economy during this period? We may not fully see this until the very above financial programs, which hopefully appear before the specified date, April 1, at the latest, only a few days late as mentioned earlier, there is no need to follow the laws precisely, okay, if it is only out of line, as at any other time. But this may be the essence when you look at the stage, looking at the reviews that have been given on this financial policy. You can see that the government is approaching the government's budget and financial administration with a measure of ease, and this is made clear in Ministers' statements. Secretary of the budget, the highest. Prime Minister, the major members of Congress, that we have not learned anything. That really is the essence of a matter. We're repeating the exact same mistakes we made just over a decade ago. Despite all of this work, all this discussion, job policy with the labour market partners, with main stakeholders, with Secret Bank, set up financial advisers and various institutions, a special legal code on public finances to rely on the framework, in order to prevent these mistakes from repeating themselves, we are still repeating them for support. The exact same things we did here over a decade ago. Of course, when we look at warnings from sources such as Business Council, Industrial Association, Business Association, and Others, we see that the economy has become as swollen today as it was over a decade ago. We've seen such expansion in the economy before. In the past, we have seen this tremendous boost, whether on the scale of prices or on pay. This trend has always ended in the same way. She's always ended up with a somewhat harsh landing, a somewhat better correction of the reality because the export branches have not lived under it. Surely we can stand here today and rejoice that there is great power of riches and good for us. The public will benefit from this position. It's a pleasure, of course. The public has never missed this good time to pay off debt, in order to strengthen their position so that their homes are now quite stable in their lives, in contrast with what was ten years ago. Granted, there are many delightful economic abnormalities now compared to over a decade ago, but evolution is all the same as we are laying the same load on our exports as we did over a decade ago, and we see very familiar consequences. There has been no growth; there has been no expansion in the exports of the nation other than traveling services in the past three or four years. All the emphasis we put together on the development of the wands, the structure of the technology and knowledge companies after the last collapse, the importance of developing a system of economics based on knowledge, the export of knowledge, the McKinsey report, all the debates under which it was conducted, all the debates at the scene of consultations--all of which was the importance of trusting the support of the exports, trusting their operating environment, trusting the management environment of the sceptres. However, when speaking to the representatives of the Industrial Association today, they make it very clear: Nothing is happening there. Nothing is happening because these articles are still under attack. We cannot build exports on the basis of knowledge and technology in the unstable coin, gang and economy we've created these articles in the past decade. That's what we're supposed to have learned. But we keep repeating the same things. Thus, in some part of the world, repeating the same things over and over but expecting any other conclusion would be the formal definition of insanity. I'm just hoping we're not there, but it's beginning to sound crazy to have to repeat talks like that over and over again. I think it's time we learned from our mistakes. I think it's time for this government to take its place seriously. You see, politics is not just about raising expenses. The compromise created in this government on massive expenditures, along with a tax reduction plan, although there is certainly a hairy and vagueness, is a tarnished cocktail, as has been previously said in this hall. This is a very dangerous suggestion, with likely very familiar consequences. I guess it will be the next government to clean up after this drunken situation. I really hope that this government sees that she sees, that she rethinks it on her terms, that the Independence Party doesn't try this time to beat its previous Iceland record in an expansion, and that we're just going to reevaluate this policy. I think it would just be the most successful thing, as here is actually a proposal for the council, to send this financial policy back to the government. She can't handle it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u201	Mr. President. In many ways, I agree with the proselytization. paritaprevir Þorsteinn, son of Víglundsson. I share his concerns about stability. I share his concerns because this policy is conservative, both income-wise and cost-exploited. I also share that view. A senator like me realizes that policy doesn't match the baseline self-sustaining, precautionary, firmness, transparency and stability. Hv. A senator mentioned that we may be repeating the economic failures of the previous years. I agree with that too. He specifically stated that it might take a left control to clean up the situation after these economic failures. All right, that may be our lot. I wanted to ask you what. A senator, in view of his long hours working for a workforce, how he feels this policy affects the labour market that may be upset at the end of the year, particularly in view of the Supreme Court. A financial minister was boasting that there was peace in the job market. In my opinion, it's only temporary peace. It would be interesting to have an opinion. A senator is affected by the workforce.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u202	President. Thank you. A senator resists. In short, I am deeply concerned about the effect both this policy and, of course, that the government representatives have on the situation in a workforce in the coming autumn. Here, very simply, it is called for a feast. It's being announced to a large outlet, and it seems to me that the labor company's response is quite ready to settle on that desk and to have something to say about what they will be angry about. I think this is a very dangerous policy. I think it's very dangerous in real life when a government puts himself in the middle of a pack, so much promises of stability in a labour market that it's as if the government was going to lead the next cycle. It is the job of the labour market party to negotiate the purchases and benefits. We already have that position here, and in reality we've been experiencing a worse trend all the streets from the national viewpoint that there is always an ever - increasing demand for the State. [[The president calls.]] It seems to me that this government has done little more than raise the expectations of very large and handsome visitors to the next bargains. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u203	Mr. President. Thank you so much for your clear and clear answers. I think a Senate should listen to this warning. Hv. A senator is very familiar with the workforce, and it is relevant to him in this regard. I'd like to later answer my questions to focus on the currency. We see that in the review of the industry's Association for Economic Policy, the fluctuations in the actual crescent of the Crown have been extremely large. It affects the company and the public in the country. I think we're gonna do what. A senator is a fellow believer as to the fact that Icelandic company and Icelandic home are a dragbit. Again, I would like to call on the senator's opinion of how he thinks the policy is affecting the crown, on its swings, and perhaps least at its interest level, because we see in the reviews that the stakeholders point out that the slacking off in the financial affairs, such as the highest level. Secretary of finance is doing it, and there's more money policy on it. This may require a higher rate of growth and growth, in fact, only the price of money. So, really, we're making money in Iceland more expensive by accepting this policy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u204	President. You're right about what you're doing. A member of the council that, while ye may speak with great care in these matters, he has made very clear, in both his comments on the last financial bill and in his reviews as well as in the financial legal committee, that this budget of the budget is simply leading to a higher level of interest and a higher level of success. The government is not helping the economy. On the contrary, they are once again fueling economic growth at the same time when we are dealing with a very difficult situation in the economy. This means that interest increases; walking gets stronger. V.E.G. The secretary of finance earlier this evening stated that the last decision did not increase in growth. True, but the zebra also had a fallout process since then, pointing out that the cooling of the economy was under way, but has stopped that growth process, likely because of an irresponsible government policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u205	A respectable president. Hv. The senator reviewed a certain story, e.g. Before the collapse and how the economic policy was then and in what it led us and how we have wandered back and forth in these recent economic states. The financial policy puts emphasis on maintaining stability, that is, in any way, the financial policy. I'd like to ask you what. A senator because he went on to explain this story: Have we ever been in stability? As I see it, the Hagroom is now predicting stability at the end of the season, with the interest rate about zero, it's not going down, she's not going up, she's not going back and forth. It is heading toward a walking slope, not a clover, or something like that. I'm asking why. Senator: Have we ever experienced economic stability in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u206	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. We're in no stability right now. I think it's perfectly clear. We may be able to figure out what was next in the fixed policy of the '90's, where we had an honorable stability in front of us and then lost control of the money and work market as we did so often before. In the end, that money policy exploded in our face. The fact is, of course, that we are present in all Western communities when it comes to economic growth, economic growth abnormalities, not how much we grow, and we are exposed to inflation. We tend to boast about how flexible we are and how fast we grow. If we were to grow so fast in the long run, we would be expected to be one of the richest nations in the world. But we're rich every ten years, and we're poor every ten years. That's the problem, of course. That's the instability. Yes, we're coming out of a crisis, but we're struck back just as hard because we never learn from past experiences. I blame a unstable, tiny currency, preferably.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u207	A respectable president. It's a little interesting to say. How long does it take to be stable or hibernating for a period of stability? Is two years enough, three years, or is that five years? Interesting recommendation that this is related to the baseline values we're supposed to meet. Stability is one of the baseline values. In fact, we need to understand what it means. I ask: Do we have a time limit, a specific definition that we can adopt, and agree that we are in some stability period? Other than that. As noted, the financial and economic secretary of state granted a pay raise according to the pay sheet. In today's dress interview, it would be only natural for the workers to say: "We also want to raise according to the pay sheet, does that work?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u208	President. How long do we need stability in order to have real stability? I don't think that's clearly not measured for two years or four years or that's why it's ten years. I think we measure stability for decades because, of course, we see these repeated fluctuations in us that often take ten years to pass. Now we're hanging on the top of one of those swings. If we look back in time, we will see that, if anything is, these swings are increasing without necessarily making us something better. Of course, stability is relative in this context, but it can be noted that even a broken clock is right twice a day, but this does not mean that it involves stability. I think that when we compare ourselves with our neighbors, we should look to our cousin Irish, who rose up from it about four decades ago, being one of Europe's poorest people, in becoming one of Europe's richest people on the scale of a man in a fixed environment, first in a British pound, then in euro. [[The president calls.]] This has been a constant rise. This is what we can learn from it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u209	A respectable president. What I missed hearing here was the suggestions for raising taxes. A senator seems to have become a spokesman because he strongly protests that over the years there is a plan to lower taxes. Yet, that is so. At one point, a senator was the executive director of the Association of Businesses, and then he spoke a lot of things about the need for tax reductions, e.g. At the time he was an executive, the message was: All too much taxes in Iceland are in the way of economic benefits. A short time earlier, the work community had concluded that here in Iceland a European record had been set on tax increases. But already it's so bad. There's a senator down here in this hall. He's going down against his taxes. As far as I can tell, he's calling for a tax raise. I would like to hear more about these tax increases. A senator also announces and also on the cuts that he clearly considers to be lacking in this program as well as the policy under discussion because he clearly opposes the increase in national expenditures as they are shown in the budget policy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u210	President. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance for this particular answer because he puts words into my mouth in these matters. I'm just criticizing the expansion because it undermines the space to the tax doctors I think I and the highest. Secretary of finance agree fully that the longer term needs to be addressed. It is certainly true that the situation of government has differing emphasis on this. We spoke very clearly before the election. We did not speak for these huge spending increases here. On the contrary, we spoke that there would be a need to be conservative in the financial affairs at this point, that all should be stressed to pay off debt because, with the subsidies of the debt, it would be possible to create room for money over the long term, both for tax downs and for the necessary investments needed to take place. You can't do everything at once. The very first, and last, of all, must be used to reduce this enormous debt. We are still paying about 2.5% of the growth of land production. [[The president calls.]] This can be greatly reduced and can be used to reduce taxes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u211	A respectable president. I appreciate that. As a result, it is stated here in our discussion that the government is speaking completely and south. Some people speak for the taxes I hear. A senator is doing this; others are working very hard against taxes. Hv. A senator is opposed to the increase in expenses we are making here to place more money in the medical system. We're going to raise the money for road construction in Iceland. We'll put more money on the line. A senator once planned social security, e.g. to complete agreements on changes to the social security system for disability. That's the way you keep counting. The education system will also receive increased financial resources and resources. All of this is financed well by good means, probably some of the best possible supplies in OECD for the next five years, while we reduce debt as we have already paid in the years since 2013 600 billion of our debt. [[The president calls.]] The growing burden is heading for what she was in her early years, but I just don't know that in the image here, there is some insatisfaction in her maps. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u212	President. The advantage of being in a position of government, especially when it is a government stand, is that we do not have to agree on all things. There are different priorities and policies. However, it is the government that has the task of harmonizing three categories of policy, and it is just the same government that speaks out and south, both in pay and in taxes. Prime Minister talks for tax promotions, secretary of finance talks for tax losses, but performs the rise of taxes. In fact, all speak in one voice for the expansion. This is what I've been stressing: In order to be an excuse to lower taxes and to show restraint in the financial affairs, that the government's budget is going to need to reduce this expansion. The government needs to hold back a little, perhaps focusing more on paying off debt than on adding extra expenses, or simply accepting that course will not work. She will simply have to accept the fact that if she wants to increase her expenses, she needs to increase her taxes. [[The president calls.]] In the context of the rest of the State Fund business between 2006 and 2007, I think about 4% of national productions each year. He disappeared in one year.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u213	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's speech is excellent, a practical speech can be said. That's why. A senator for economic management and possible mistakes that have been made here and there through the years, that we always have a trap and not a soft landing, etc. And it cannot be joined. But when it comes to it, I'm in a bit of a jam. A senator talks about the sustainable concept. It is also true of maintaining investments. Investment is urgent, that knows why. Senator, he was dealing with it in the last government. According to the Industrial Association, there are 372 billion and 80 billion people on the highway system. Now it's got the highest. Governments decide to set priorities for the education and health systems as they were on the table at the latest. Governments. [[The president calls.]] Wants to play. A senator cuts down there? Or how will he do this?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u214	President. Thank you. A senator resists. That's right, as a matter of fact. A senator points out that we have a problem because there is no debate that the internal investor is urgent. In fact, it's supposed to be careful with numbers, for there are also enormous sums of money in infrastructure, in airports, electronic energy systems, etc., that will not be financed from the state fund, of course you need to be careful. But we do know that the built - in structure in the health system and that our country's road system is vascular. How sad it is to know that the divorce of government budgets over a decade ago was such that there was no room for infrastructure right at the moment when the economy had needed it, when the government fund had received the most money. When there were the best circumstances in life, we could not afford it. Of course, that is also what we need to be careful not to get in the same situation again. When the economy gets cold, we can't afford the infrastructure either. That is why we need to distribute it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u215	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I'm glad to hear that. A senator sees the urgent task in an investment that we must take if we are to meet the baseline values such as sustainability and build up the infrastructure. This is evident in the comments on this course, because of what it is. A senator came here on economic development, that at the end of 2016, we took the top advantage and replaced 4.9% of the predicted economic growth by the past year, it is only 3.6%. In this course, there is certainly a slightly lower share in the amount of money and the high priority of the important factors in transport, education, and health. [[The president calls.]] You see, these policies are similar to those of today's restructuring goals.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-20-41.u216	Mr. President. You're right about what you're doing. A senator says there is much to consider in this regard. When we discuss sustainable financial matters, we need to consider, as I mentioned, that it's not just about the decrease in debt. That we're able to do something at the height of the economy, you'd think it would be possible to pay off the debt. It's also about the generations, that we don't walk, in our reimbursement in the state outlets, to the future generations of this country, but it's quite clear that we are, with the tax revenues we're making, under these spendings, these services that we're paying for a long future, not to wonder about the responsibility that we've got the quality set up, if so it might be said, that it's inevitable for us, when we're slowing down on the economy, wondering more tax burden on the future generation. This requires constant care. That's where I think we need to take a special look at the sustainable concept.
