ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u1	Borist has a letter from the financial and economic secretary asking for every appointment to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. 624, the cost of New Land Hospital ohf., from Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u2	Consider: Prime Minister, health minister, travel, industrial and innovation ministers, environmental and resource ministers and social and equal minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u3	Mr. President. In 2015, the Left Green Peace of Whales, i.e. The left movement ▪ The green supply has been the policy of opposing whales. So first, I would like to ask the prime minister if something has changed in the course of the party. Is left green still against whales? Second, to stop the new fishing of the big bangs that will begin in June, including: Fishing for up to 209 long - range, the second - largest living species on earth today? Will the left green use its influence within the government to stop the fish? Third, support left green reassessment of Iceland's policies when it comes to whales and will be used for such a review? I'd like to attract the highest attention. Prime Minister, since there is a council proposal for that subject at the council. Will the left green use within the government to follow their own whaling course, or will they simply sit by and let their fishing begin in June?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u4	Mr. President. Like what? A senator knows who served as a sea emissary and agricultural minister is the fish for some of the five - year period published by 2013 to 2018. So this is the last year of this license. Hv. A senator asks what course they'll take about whaling, and then I expect her to be asking about it when this period ends because the greeting is released to five years, and it's a special decision to enter it and to turn back to the previous decision, which I'm not sure of. However, there is absolutely no doubt that since the fall of 2018, a new decision must be made regarding the continuation of the whales, whether it will be released with new goodbyes or not. I believe it is very important that before such a new decision is made, such as well. A senator refers to his inquiry, assessment of the environmental impact of whale fishing, social impacts and economics, i.e. There is a real evaluation based on the ideologies of sustainable development, and see if it is normal to continue hunting with or without Icelanders. It's our left green policy, we've believed that this fishing is not sustainable, but we realized that the planned fishing for the summer is the last year's fishing in a five-year period set out in 2013 by Regulation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u5	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Answer, in part. But I reiterate my question: Is left green still opposed to whale hunting? Although this five - year period is certainly nearing its end this year, I want to reiterate the question: Will the left - left green put it ahead of you and try to stop the whales that are currently starting in June, including: to be joined by the council, and to reevaluate and reevaluate the whale hunting policy of the Icelanders? It is a government under the leadership of the left movement a ◯ green supply. Whale fishing is on its way back, despite the fact that it is within the five - year period. Is left green still against whales? Will they pursue a different course immediately this summer? I hear it, and I'm especially glad that they're going to at least support the reassessment and review of Iceland's whale hunting policy. So I ask for a clear answer from the highest. Prime Minister. Is left green ready to follow their own course when they're in government?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u6	A respectable president. I have the conviction as a politician that it is important that governments be in charge at any time. This means that when a regulation is given up to five years, it is followed despite a government switch. This shouldn't come anyway. A senator is surprised because she knows that if there's something I've spoken for as a politician, then it's that we're not in constant decapitation with new governments, but we're building our decisions and working out policies on which we can base our decisions on. Yes, the left green is on its course. Then I want to discuss it here. A senator quoted from 2015. At our national meeting, a resolution was adopted to expand whales'grasslands as well as the protection of animal life in the land. The grass area was grown at a time. A member of the Parliament as a marine dignitary and agricultural minister. That decision has not been withdrawn, but we support it. Once again: we do not maintain our contour of every government. However, there is a question, and the answer cannot be clearer, that before a new decision is made, the evaluation I mentioned here must be performed which is based on sustainability.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u7	Mr. President. By permission of the president, the government covenant stated: In the election, with increased support for committees and members of Congress, all of us will be strengthened by the European Commission and the European Parliament. The reason for reviewing these fine words is the latest news on the Board's web, as presented, via President's permission: To suggest Prime Minister Katrín Jakobsdóttir has been determined to perform an independent assessment of specific matters in the country of child protection, which have been discussed in the Ministry of Health and the World Health Committee of the Generals. The website also shows that this assessment will take into account the available data on the case and the local government case, i.e. The Child Welfare Services involved in the case, the Children's Protection Agency and the Ministry of Health. For one thing, I'd like to say no to the highest. The prime minister is likely to know that the initiative to consider this very subject is unique to a welfare committee. That's what the announcement says. That's why I have to ask why the highest. In view of these fine words in the government covenant, a minister will order this evaluation without consultation with a health committee. A report on the Management Board's web also shows that the assessment is completed at the beginning of June. The basic concept of the welfare committee is far from a prime level, but it may be expected that it could end considerably sooner than that, by the Ministry's memoirs and the communication between the Ministry's personnel and the secretary's personnel to provide memos. It's under the roof. Would she not be interrupting a welfare committee by doing this? I'm going to the top. The prime minister of this procedure is to step into the activities of the General Assembly when he performs his duty as a follow - up and postpones them until summer vacation?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u8	Mr. President. In case of a moment. A senator considers my request to the highest degree. The Minister of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, who has requested to me that regardless of the assessment, the case of child protection committees, the Children's Health Services and the Ministry of Health for any case has somehow prevented the work of the Parliament. A senator misunderstood something. However, it is my duty as prime minister to use the sources that the Ministers have in the Council of Government in order to bring to independent experts, as I have now done, to provide such evaluations. We are not interfering with the council in this way. In that sense, however, members of the Council are not committees of inquiry. Of course, they can pick up issues and schedule things, as has been done here, as shown in this announcement. In fact, it does not refer to initiative thinking. Rather, it is discussed with the World Health Committee. However, since the data presented here are only available to some members of the health committee but, of course, not the ones listed here, I would have considered desirable for this sensitive category of cases that we all tried to care for him, it is crucial that members of Congress would rejoice that foreign experts had been moved to review these cases, the administration of these parties listed in the press release, and that it would be stressed that it happened quickly. Hv. A senator here talks about vacations. This is a time that is as short as possible for us to consider possible for these experts to complete this review. I would've thought that. Councilmen would rejoice that this means of execution, using the resources we have to ensure that all these issues are above doubt. We owe it to this suit.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u9	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The minister gives the answer and is pleased to hear that it is with me in getting to the table in this matter. It is true that there are only members of the welfare committee who have access to the data of this case. However, it has been observed in the case of members of the committee that there are information that is very relevant to the public in view of the fact that a controversial investigation turns to a person who has been designated for Iceland to play a very respectable role in the United Nations Children's Committee. In this light, I also want to ask: Does this independent assessment include confirmation of the highest level? ▪ Prefect that the initial investigation of the Ministry of Health could not be expected to be exactly independent? Is that so? Very much. ▪ Prefects that confidentiality will already be removed from the evidence of the matter, which does not contain sensitive personal information or with which it is removed? Stands at the top. Based on current information, does the prime minister still Bragi Iceland's Child - Court Committee of the United Nations? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u10	Mr. President. The objective of the independent review is to obtain independent specialists who come outside to review all the data of this case and to see if the child protection committees, Children's Institutes and Health Ministry treatments can be considered acceptable and overcome any doubt. That's the point. Right away. A senator asks me if the fact that I make such a assessment is that I feel that something is wrong is, of course, wrong and surprising to conclude. The reason for my starting this assessment is that I find it important, and especially in such a delicate matter as this, to be just above doubt. I can't, from the news I've read, put any independent judgment on it, and I don't have access to these thousands of pages of data or anything that's available. I can't decide whether or not everything was right. Of course not! [[The president calls.]] Therefore, we will allow this assessment to take place. In turn, it has been observed that the government's decision is regarding the offer as a matter of course. The result of this assessment can be influenced by a senator. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u11	Mr. President. When this peculiar government was formed more than 150 days ago, some thought it was an accident that socialist was now in the position of prime minister. However, after yesterday's labor struggles, there is evidence that a government is particularly interested in the interests of workers. For the next five years, the socialist government has decided not to add a cent to child support or interest support. Then an tax policy is offered that gives a million dollars to the man three times more tax reduction than the one given to the midwife on the bases. Mr. President. On the other hand, there was one thing after yesterday's debate, the house - to - house situation. If the power groups had listened to a ten - hour talk by Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir 20 years ago, there would now be 12,000 more apartments on the social market. Having a roof over your head is a measure of human rights, but it has rarely been as difficult for young people as it is today. You see, rent costs are killing ordinary people on your usual salary. Hence, it is sad that in the five - year financial program of the government, half the money for the building of tens of thousands of dollars has been decided and that of the 34 sectors of government spending, the largest reduction in the topic field called housing support is even the largest. Mr. President. That's why I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: How is it that they, and especially young people, offer this poor five - year vision when it comes to housing? Why does this government want to directly reduce their contributions to the building of a tenfold for the next five years when the need is screaming for an increase in the budget?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u12	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for setting up important matters on the program, even though I must now correct some of the reasons he made in his inquiry. Hv. A senator speaks of a tax policy that insurmounts inequities. I'll let myself have less time. The senator says that the initial tax system changes of this government's first budget were an increase of 10% in capital income taxes, about 2 percentage points, sharp. A senator should now know that such a tax increase is primarily related to most of the financial value in the community. Hv. A senator should know this well, so he should be careful that in the case of inequities and equations in society, the inequities are expressed only in the distribution of property, not in income distribution. However, we have discussed income distribution, and we have every reason to discuss it in this regard. Then I'd like to get to it. A senator referred to, i.e. taxation changes. Yes, a tax reduction in the financial program is required. It also proclaims consultations with the labor movement, the national collective staff on how to achieve a tax reduction so that it can benefit best from the income and lower intermediate groups and, in particular, the interaction will be considered. A senator also mentions the improvements systems, i.e. child damages and housing support. This consultation is about to begin and hopefully it will be over in the fall for the next budget donation. This was stated in the government declaration in connection with our collective agreements. Yesterday, we celebrated the labor struggle date, and there were demands. I'd like to say that I view the labor movement as one of our partners in politics for the social benefits that have to be done. I don't want to see them as opposers, but we should follow exactly what we've established in the first few months of this government. The last meeting of the government with the labour market was Friday. They've been monthly since my government began. [[The president calls.]] That's where we're already seeing the results of action. But what I think is the most important thing to do is to start considering how the Generalate can get more into those long-term policies as well as those of the labour market.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u13	Mr. President. How poor these answers are at the top of the world! Prime Minister when it comes to housing. It returns, as shown in the financial agenda, clear in this regard. She preaches a conversation, but why doesn't it announce, in her five - year vision, additional contributions for building a rented house? The financial program is specifically announced that she will be given increased housing for the Ministry. Why does the Bible not guarantee the increase in money to a rented apartment for young people? This five - year plan is the vision of this government, and it's hard to believe that we'll hear over and over again that there's going to be a discussion and conversation, etc. already in policy, a variety of aspects of the government's priorities are presented. Why is it not just the independent policy of the government to increase contributions to the building of tenants? Why do we need to build a normal part of the welfare system as a change in collective agreements? Why should ordinary people always pay their own pay raise by building the welfare system and infrastructure that is paid by the tax of this same person? Mr. President. [[The president calls.]] It is clear that the labor movement does not share the pioneer spirit in the prime minister. Clearly, the government hasn't heard the shouts of war in Ingolf's Square. This government is one of disappointments, whether in terms of interest, child benefits, housing, midwives, whales, etc. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And now the Minister of Justice and Department of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u14	Mr. President. I'm really sorry if you did. A senator is so disappointed, and I recommend that he do something about it. I can tell him there's a huge improvement in financial plans. It doesn't mean to come up here and say, "It's just a disappointment. Of course, financial programs do not answer all questions. There is tremendous physical structure ahead of us in health, transportation, and education, but not all questions are answered. Hv. A senator can be very quiet about it, but I just want to say that I have a lot of faith in how well we do things. What has resulted from this conversation between the government and the labour market members? A senator demeans? It came, e.g. Actions. They were no change in collective agreements. They were made in a declaration about a spring contract of collective agreements. They were not dependent on how that payment would be made, for they increased unemployment rates here yesterday to 90% of their day - to - day security, resulting in the pay of responsible funds being paid up here yesterday, and thus taking the normal changes that had not been made for a long time. They made us decide to have a conversation with the entire pay system on how we are going to change the income tax system in order to benefit from less income and less intermediate groups. [[The president calls.]] I think that's what we're talking about. A senator does not have to be particularly disappointed in this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u15	Mr. President. The United Nations Childhood Committee is a very important committee that has to appoint the most qualified people in this area from various countries. The committee has even. monitoring the implementation and implementation of the paediatric covenant, interpreting the terms of the covenant, and applying the duties of the covenant to Member States. The committee is appointed 18 agents from the same number of countries. On the website of the Committee, members of the Committee are experts who have high moral and excellent cooperation skills. A nominee is appointed for four years. Iceland is now reaching out for a member of the Committee, as well as a candidate for the Northlands. A representative of the Iceland Government is the Director of Child Welfare, a man with a long career in this field. However, cases are such that the individual has been under investigation in the Ministry of Health for possible violations of work. The former minister of the seminary who knows the facts has said that the fault is very serious. Recently, the issue has been very prominent in the media. V.E.G. A social minister has finally acknowledged that the director of the Children's Protection Agency went outside his job role in a specific matter. The results of a study of the alleged violations of the director have not been published. V.E.G. The Minister of Social Affairs has not informed the council of this important aspect of the matter, as well as the one thing he has decided is that going outside his field of service to such an important issue is not a violation of the work. This issue is about whether the president of the government has abused his authority and whether the minister of the jury has decided to perform his duty to the Children's Institute for Children's Health. It is about whether the government has approved a hearing without complete enlightenment on its seriousness. Mr. President. The United Nations Child Rights Committee is one of the most important committees on the United Nations. The work of the Committee and its members must be complete and reliable. The discussion that has taken place here is coming at a speed of light at the United Nations scene. [[The president calls.]] It has to do with our reputation as a nation if the offer is done. So I want to ask the highest. Prime Minister whether the government is one of the top directors of the Children's Protection Agency as a candidate for Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u16	It is so true that Child Welfare Services have complained to the Ministry of Health on the matter of communication with the Children's Health Organization. The Ministry reviewed that matter in a certain way, and I understand that the recommendations that were subsequently made are part of the confidential information presented here before members of the welfare committee and not other members of the Parliament. The same is true, for an article was made on the side of the council. Department of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, that these communications had been in gray areas. This was shown both at the Hall of Congress and in line for the welfare committee at the time. It enlightened the highest. Ministers also on the government when he proposed this offer to the United Nations Child - Court Committee. We're in a hurry. I believe it is my duty as prime minister to grant the highest request. Department of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities to provide an independent assessment of all the issues of this case from the introduction of these Children's Health Services complaint to the Ministry of Health and the management of Child Services, Children's Health, the Ministry of Health. This assessment will be performed, as was true in the previous question. paritaprevir As noted there and also by Sunna Ævarsdóttir, the results of this assessment can influence the offer as much as possible. A senator mentioned this and asked specifically. [[Up front.]] That's what the government is all about because this is a question of why. Central Party chairman. I think it's very important, as I said before, that in this delicate case, there is a good thing to do. This is not to be noted at the Council, but it is very important that the European Commission act on this matter and allow this assessment to be carried out. [[The president calls.]] We'll review those results when they're available.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u17	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The answer is made by the prime minister. I'd like to ask the highest, too. Prime Minister whether a state of peace within the government and whether it is supreme. Prime Minister is content with the administrations of a social minister in this case. V.E.G. The prime minister also mentioned that she had requested a special assessment, and I welcome it, of course, but this study does not focus on information related to the General Assembly. And then I'll ask if it's not right for the General to investigate specifically the alleged violations of Social Affairs in the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u18	Mr. President. I appreciate your concern. A senator to the government and can say that in general it is just very comfortable. He can sleep quietly over the position within her. But with regard to that matter as a matter of course. A senator asks about - he asks me if I'm happy with the office transfers at the highest level. Minister of Social Affairs. I have every confidence in the highest. Minister of Social Affairs. I don't think there's anything out there that suggests he's done anything wrong in this case. However, he himself has requested that regardless of the review be done - from the beginning of the case to the end of the matter - so that we can make as fully an explanation of the matter as possible. Why is this important? I'm gonna let me tell you one more time. It is the role of the government and the Generals to ensure that the system around us of the most vulnerable citizens, children, is in place of trust. If there is reason to go down to get all the facts, it is our duty to do so. [[The president calls.]] And it will be.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u19	A respectable president. The reason I came up here is the bill that I proposed to relieve taxes on the drug supply and fuel grant to the worst and to live in deep poverty. In the case of the Economic and Business Committee, an insurance agency sent in a letter so condemned that I don't think I've ever read a letter like this before or since. This letter is sent on March 28, 2018, to the Committee. They're trying to convince the committee that if these improvements were to be tax free, they'd have the opposite effect on these people. We're talking about benefits not only that are taxed but also that when they are considered to be income, they reduce the financial support of rural society, housing, special housing support, child support, interest rates, and real estate bills. This ends with some who get this going in a minus. People are being fooled. We're just asking that people be stopped being fooled, that they get these tax reforms and inadequacies so that they will be sufficient for those who live in very poverty and have high cost of medicine, for example. in wheelchairs. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: Is it reasonable that the insurance agency - these are its clients - try to use deception to prevent them from getting these tax and demeaning benefits? And I also ask, Will he study this matter and deal with it? This is not a proper treatment of a government agency, such as the government insurance agency, which I am afraid to call today the State's demolition agency.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u20	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry, he is a great fighter for those less fortunate in the community. We have spoken from here more than once about the issues involved. I'm not questioning that bill as a matter of fact. A senator would bring in good and to the benefit of this group. I have to admit that I have not studied the comments on this subject. I don't know exactly what this account is. But I can tell you very briefly and clearly that I will continue to study it. I hope we can then have a wording on this matter again. But as long as I haven't studied the review, I think it's better to say less than more.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u21	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister for the answers, and I sincerely hope that he will learn about this, and I sincerely hope that this matter will get into the council, and we can handle it properly so that those who live in desperate poverty do not have to suffer the need to be used to make such firm use of them and to cut their benefits far beyond what is normal. Then I'd like to ask the minister, because we had a word exchange on April 9. of the take of half a pension, and then the Minister said word for word, by permission of the President: I'd like to say here that on the way is a matter, if it's not arrived at the council, it's on the way, to make changes, and to prevent the cracks that are there. A senator came in. I'll ask the minister, where is this case? It's May 2nd. Is it on the way? Is it stuck somewhere? Where is it in the system?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u22	A respectable president. Regarding this request, I'd like to say that when she arrived at the time, I believed that a meeting in the Ministry of Health had been conducted. He had already been announced, and thereafter he was to be prepared in an urgent assembly case. Unfortunately, the meeting was delayed, and I wasn't aware that he had been postponed at the time, so he actually asked for the inquiry where I answered it. I'd like to say yes to the council. However, I would like to say that I have stressed that this case is fast. There have been dealings with all the main stakeholders involved in trying to get it as quickly as possible so that it can be accepted into the council. In the middle of the last week, I pressed after this, but I don't know exactly what the situation is right now. I will, following this inquiry, press this case again within the Ministry because it is important that you do so. There are factors, and there are only differences in the way this is to be done. [[The president calls.]] I know there's been a discussion in the Ministry in good collaboration with the main stakeholders, as far as I know.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u23	V.E.G. President. In the past five years, the person standing here in direct inquiry to the five secretary of the Independence Party involved in Airbb function in Iceland has reported that this is probably the largest black economy in Iceland. There's probably more tax fraud than in any other part of the system. The answers I have so far received from the above - mentioned advisers have described apathy, indifference, and lack of ambition. Now I'd like to direct my words to a travel, industrial, and innovation minister and ask her what she intends to do to bring them into line. As I said before, I've pointed out that this is a black economy. That's not enough. I've pointed out that this is a big tax fraud. That's not enough. It was this fall that this operation is, at the court of the police, one of the main sites of human halls and prostitution in Iceland. Nor does it seem that it is not enough to try to get close to these activities. And now, just a few days ago, it turns out that Iceland's Haggis has been comparing the amount of money they earn from this operation. Last year, 20 billion dollars [U.S.] came in, and 10% of the activity is registered. The economist argues that the funds of this system will not remain in Iceland, they will be collected abroad, and they will never come to Iceland. Now I'm asking the highest. Minister: Do you, chief? Minister, use your force that it will finally be handled seriously by the police, who have permission, e.g. as here in the capital area, so that this business can be established?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u24	Mr. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for the inquiry. This is a subject that we regularly discuss, and many feel that it is not working well enough to clean up. I have read a number of assessments and figures on the scope of this operation. I have never, however, been told how and whether the operation on the Airbnb should be registered and not recorded. In these numbers, of course, where there are very large amounts of money, there is some way to work together those who are renting out homes and not registering 90 days, those who are likely to register but rent well over 90 days, and therefore should be inside a standard employment system and, for example, those who run, for example. hostels around the country return everything, but they're registered to the Airbnb. What I wouldn't want to see is that we're going to talk about Airbnb in general as illegal and evil activity. We have a hostel that may have her own small home but that can't reach all the numbers they do without being registered on the Airb; selling lots of beds through Airb, but still returning taxes and duties. But I'm going to be absolutely clear about the need for us to step in when it comes to the checkpoint. We've been responding to this rule of action, and there's an ongoing review, just as it is everywhere else, I think, in the world, and especially in big cities. I just say, there are times when there are doubles and tritels. I am absolutely clear about the fact that, of course, we must have a competitive environment that is fair. You can't tell people that they should be willing to pay extra taxes and family and cost but then watch too many people don't. I'm very clear about where I'm on my team there. I'm just saying, "Airbnb's here to stay." [[The president calls.]] That's what counts. I have a meeting after a weekend with the county and the tax as we are reviewing exactly how the project is and what we can do to make things better.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u25	V.E.G. President. It's right next to the highest. Minister, we've been discussing this regularly because nothing's going to happen. That's why we keep talking about it. Different operations, the Minister says. That's right. Therefore, it must be recorded as well because the non-President business is to pay higher real estate costs, etc. One minister says that he does not want to mark this activity as a special illegal activity. Then I pointed out that last time I knew there were 312 licences registered by approximately 3,500 tenants renting out. Those who are not enrolled are breaking the law because these activities are to be recorded. It's not that you're unforeseeable that you're here talking about lawbreakers. In case of surveillance, the highest would say. Minister. I'm glad to hear it. I know, I'm convinced that after talking to the Management Board of Tourism in this country, it's a big deal that they're also doing it because those not enrolled are competitive; they're not paying duties and expenses like the rest of this business that are honest. [[The president calls.]] It's no big deal for the highest. Ministers to join with the police, the tourism organization, the county and enter this case once. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u26	Mr. President. It is true that, of course, we would like to see much more registration than we are now. I still mention that the logging is increasing. If I understood why. He just mentioned the registration, since people record 90 days. I'll mention back those who are employed and only have business licenses for this, but I'll register in the Airbnb website to reach a much larger target group. The key element is to monitor the extent of each individual, i.e. for the number of days. I say then, there must be two ways to do it, one through Airbnb and the other by field surveillance. It must be both of them, but it's not that simple. It is not ambitious to try to cope with changes in reality. No one needs to doubt that I am a spokesman for fair competition, since people must sit at the same table. I realize it's not when it's like this. [[The president calls.]] But I also say, I have not found the city or land that has solved all the challenges facing the Airbnb. And neither have we.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u27	Mr. President. When I'm at the highest. In 2009, the president was in charge of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania, which included the Watch Tower Society's Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania. One of the blessed members of the Senate's surveillance role was to be strengthened by a change in the terms of a surveillance role, during which the truth - related minister was established, including that he should inform about all the evidence that could lead to giving a clearer and sharp picture of the relevant matter at the same time. In these last days, events have made me think deeply about the exact privilege of serving as minister of truth. That's why I'm firm at the highest. President to support the Council's Commission and Control Committee in precise review of the section of the matter that has been very involved in child protection and child protection, and to see if they are at the highest level. Social Affairs ministers have fulfilled their legal obligation to the General Assembly, i.e. filled and presented all the data related to the case that has been very discussed. It is important that we show that we are really following the change. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The president was on the verge of strengthening the Senate's surveillance role. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u28	Mr. President. I have to come up here and say something. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, and the cheer for the highest power. The President to support the administrative and monitoring committee in his work to review these matters. I'd like to recall that the Council is running a surveillance operation with the executives. This is made clear in contemporaneous creations. In addition to the information-oriented Minister, there is good reason to doubt that it has been fulfilled at a meeting of the welfare committee and here at this council hall all around this issue, as reported in the media. To use my last seconds, I'm going to review to the U.S. Congress what information duties the Minister is, by permission of the President. For 50th. Says a contemporanity: In the matter of Congress, with special discussion, in response to council inquiry, and in reports, whether of personal initiative or by the request of the members of Congress, as well as in case the initiative of the regular committees of the council, the secretary should submit the information available to him and have a significant significance for the interpretation of the matter. It's just a little clear, right? President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u29	A respectable president. I've come up here to join with what. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. I think there is good reason why the Commission and the Commission are given a clear message from the council to see if the Supreme Court is in charge. Department of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has compromised or violated the Congress and as a result, they have not carried out their information and initiative duties. I think it is very important that it be done and that the committee has unambiguous support from the president in order to conduct such a study. It is very important that we destroy any uncertainty about that matter. I'd also like to use this opportunity as long as I'm here to agree that the head of the welfare committee has handled this matter perfectly. I think we should thank you for taking up the case and try to shed some light on it. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u30	Mr. President. A man has so often stood here in this public assembly talking about the duty of observation to the Commission and that the information duties of the Commission, Ministers, have not been met, are being violated against it. The secretary does not provide the necessary data so that the General can make an informed decision in this regard. We're at the point where it's no longer working. Then there's a question about what to do. One thing we can do is direct it to a president, like a dog. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir has made these laws conditioned, he is responsible for the implementation of Congress laws, which say that we should be informed by members of Congress so that we can take an informed stand on matters. It is the president of the council that is responsible for this. If this doesn't get better, we'll need senators to get together to take up a few points, take up a memo and make some notes, and then send them to the Committee to the Presidency. Then the presiding committee must take this into account. [[Up front.]] At the same time, the matter has to be taken up, as Þorgerður K. Gunnarsdóttir says, by the Board of Directors and Controls, will begin the initiative case, only three to see if a minister is breaking the law. [[The president calls.]] That's good.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u31	Mr. President. I agree with what. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir and the other members of Congress who have just pointed out that the role of the management and monitoring committee is to monitor the highest level. Councilmen and executives. I think it is only natural for the council to investigate a committee and to consider what has happened lately, the highest level of communication. Department of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities to the welfare committee. I think it's obvious that there's also a need to see if any good government has been used in all of this. I'm not entirely convinced that what you think is the highest. The prime minister is about to initiate this matter, so the administrative committee and monitoring committee would be the committee to consider this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u32	A respectable president. All I want to do was get involved in this discussion here and say: When this case originally came up and came up here at the council, I had already requested to see the welfare committee in order to review the whole case. That meeting was then announced February 28th. At that meeting, a good discussion was held. At that meeting, I also spoke about these matters as children's protection issues, which were the most delicate of cases, but it would be no problem to consider the whole matter, holding to that special confidentiality in order to get into it. I encouraged the committee to do this and to consider the matter from every side. Next, I heard from the welfare committee a month later when a detailed request was received. This had become the case, and all the data related to this matter were sent to a welfare committee. So, in my opinion, I have been able to cooperate with the welfare committee in this matter, hoping to stay with it, whether in this case or in other matters that are in progress.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u33	A respectable president. I'd like to review my speech on the activities of the council last week because it has something to do with this matter here, at least. Minister of Social Affairs, the Guðmundur of the Ingi of Kristinsson earlier at the meeting of 9th of April. and ask why. Then a senator will be about half a pension. It stated that the meeting that the minister is likely to refer to was at 2 p.m. 14, one and a half hours before asking. A senator was brought up. It was earlier noted in the reply of the minister that the meeting had been after the question period. I think it's something important that in response to an original query at any point. The senator is told that the matter to be handled is about to come to the council, if not, when it began one and a half hours before the answer was given. [[The president calls.]] Clearly, it is not true that the case was the right thing to do, if not already, to the council. I just want to remind you that this is part of the overall context we need to talk about the information ministers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u34	Mr. President. It has been observed that certain members of Parliament are unsure that a minister has handled correctly and published all that was required of him. V.E.G. A minister has so come here to speak to other viewpoints, so it's the irreverent that there are differing opinions on this matter. I would like to draw attention to the fact that here is the metaphor of the Independence Party, the forwarding party, and the left greener, which is a government team, and also about the procreation of the Council. A great deal was made up of it at a press conference when this government set out to place special emphasis on promoting the General Assembly. It would be the first time in history that the government had declared it. Then I think it's just as good for men to be able to live up to it now and investigate this matter so that they can figure it out.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u35	A respectable president. All I want to do is come up here and be glad we're talking about the right committee in this case, a management committee and a surveillance committee, which, of course, is to be in control. That's why I'm asking the highest. The president whether it's true, as soon as this case is checked - and I'm glad it's checked because I believe this case is a good thing because good information comes up - that the welfare committee, to some members of the welfare committee, have become involved in confidential information from government, that we are at once brought up with information on very serious confidential matters. It is not the role of a welfare committee but the role of a welfare committee in implementing child protection and that is what we took out of the meeting with the minister of February 28, and continued to follow up. It's our job. That's how I believe it is. That's why I'm glad that there's been a talk about a management and surveillance committee and I thought that this committee just had its administration and that it didn't need the president's help. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u36	President. I also welcome it if it is. The management board will take over this matter. I would like to make it clear that it would have been very simple for the highest. The minister, when he was meeting the Department of Health, and we asked to know what information or data was involved in this formal resolution, announced on the Ministry's Web and revealed, to say: "We find that Bragi went out of his field and we made recommendations to him. There is no confidentiality to rule over it, that was the results, and it's been shown in the news, so I'm not breaking any confidence here. This is really what we had to do when we asked for that information. And they didn't come, and therefore I support the administration and monitoring committee taking up this case because it is very important to trust that a minister will provide the important information that we were considering on the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u37	Mr. President. It has to be said, as it is, that this is a very interesting discussion that will take place during the council. I have to agree, of course, that it is the responsibility of the administration and monitoring committee to have the initiative to investigate individual ministers' decisions and their procedures. In matters of confidentiality, as a matter of course. The members of the welfare committee have now received, I believe that it is appropriate to state from the Senate hearing that there is no particular reason for concern. This information is accessed by members of the board and monitoring committees. This is not about this particular case in Hafnarfjörður or what was going on or whether there was some sort of association there or anything else. It has nothing to do with it. Here we are dealing with the office of the director of the public agency and the communication of the director with the minister and how the minister handled it. That's what this is all about, not what a certain family in Iceland has had to endure.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u38	A respectable president. This case involving Child Welfare and Bragi is a bad case. I say for my part that I want to agree with what the last speaker said, these data are in a special room with a welfare committee, I haven't studied them, I'm living in Hafnarfjörður, and I don't like going into a child protection case that I don't think I should have anything to do with myself. I think it would have been fair not to leave over 1,000 pages with confidential data for us but to take out only the data we could see. It was to be done immediately. It's all blown up, it's become ridiculous, and I don't understand this kind of work. Why were not the data to be obtained at once?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u39	A respectable president. There is no question that much of our work is based on trust and trust. Many of the issues we discuss need to be handled in an appropriate way, indiscriminately. In case of a moment. The members of Congress have found it necessary for a board of directors to look into this matter and its enterprise somewhat further, I agree with it. Árnason Will, of course, the correct course. I also believe that there is good reason to believe that along the way there is a confidentiality that has occurred, for example. by publishing this information in the media and e - mails between members of Congress who find their way into the media. I declare that I am prepared to make sure that whoever president chooses to be assigned to my mailbox and to look at all the deliveries I have sent out, and I challenge other members of Congress to do the same. It is totally unacceptable that we have the distrust that is forming within the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u40	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying something for a reason. 9th. The Southern District of the Árnason, Vilhjálmur, is that it is completely normal according to the Congress that the welfare committee will discuss this matter. According to Section 26. and 49th pars. Constitutional law is not wrong with that. However, there is no concern either that a board of administration and monitoring committee deals with the secretary's dealings with the council when it is found that the minister has not provided adequate information in this pontata, or at least not at the level where he has expressed himself on the matter, in the opinion of those who observe and, in my opinion, certainly. Regarding the data in the so - called secret room, there are also data, reports on them here, in the media, and anything that is not confidential. They're supposed to be lit. I intend in advance to reject any attempt to hide such things as results or something that does not concern personal matters as well as anything, to try to prevent them from happening. They should come out. [[Up front.]] There is a key to this matter, regarding the fact that we can discuss this category of credibility and trust, that it will be published. [[The president calls.]] I specifically warn that people will shake hands with someone who offers data like, for example. The results will not be displayed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u41	Mr. President. I agree with what. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir and others, I'm glad that there is a reason for this matter to be taken to some extent by a management and surveillance committee, but perhaps better if it had been before. Here it has been said that there is reason to doubt that a minister has given the council all the information and the information involved and that the council needs to have. I hereby state that I have no reason to doubt that all the evidence involved in these matters and that we need to have, are in the secret room in the committee field, and those members of the council who are to have access to these data have had complete access to them during the past few days.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u42	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Prime Minister for speaking with me about this important matter. It's no secret, or if it is, Iceland's worst secret is that our banking system is expensive. It's small, and it's inseparable. It's isolated. They live only in part by international competition. How important it is, then, that we strive with all our means to make our financial system more competitive! I must admit, however, that I always have a measure of concern when governments are going to draw out the scope or function of an entire sector, whether it's a financial sector or someone else. The trend has been that such work takes so long that the reality has become quite different and new when governments finally finish their policy career. We are well aware of this in policy work around tourism. A government-based policy industry is still being carried out at the same time as this article has grown from being one of our smallest exports to being our major sectors. Of course, there is much to do in the international environment when it comes to the financial system. We have been and are still in the middle of a joint rule, when it comes to the excellent system, and significant changes have been made in the order of the financial system to prevent events of the process that took place in 2007◯2009. I think it's perfectly safe for us to rely on that work and focus on doing a good job for the induction. It is of interest when we look at the objective of the White Book in this issue, to provide us with an efficient and economic system, that ultimately, it is the most important thing for individuals and businesses that there is a competitive or comparable interest level for our neighbors. This may be the major factor in the cost of our coins and the large difference in interest of our neighboring countries, but also other secondary factors, such as ours. Influx seas we live in because of independent currency, which indiscriminately increase capital costs here, both banks and individuals and businesses, but also the fact that a dollar may have proved to be one of the main barriers to foreign rivals into the Icelandic fiscal market. In addition to this position, we have put a great deal of money into the financial system. We have one of the highest self - worth banks known in international comparison, which, of course, leads to an increase in interest rates. What matters also is that the budget simply searches in a different direction. We'll see, for example. that much of our mortgage has been covered by pension funds, and businesses are increasingly looking for a direct billing or past our banking system. In fact, we narrow with these specialist requirements that we compete with the banking system, which is important for the assurance of national ultimatum. We are even digging up the quality of banks with a variety of specific and specific requirements. Other factors might be mentioned, and that is, of course, the most important possession of the state of the financial system where the state fund is due, I hold close to 70% of the formal banking system, which is an entirely unique case on a international scale. You always fear when it comes to the need to go in general policies before anything is changed, that it is simply putting off the important issue of the matter, that you are buying time because there is no solid agreement to reduce the holding of financial funds. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. First, Prime Minister: What plans does the government have for the factors that are causing households and companies the most additional cost in banking services, i.e. The cost of the Icelandic crown, both in terms of interest in the foreign countries, influx seas, and the access block that has proved to be for foreign competition? Second, in view of the joint European act that is being introduced, does prime minister consider it suitable for the competitiveness of Icelandic financial companies to set special rules for them? Or should we allow it to introduce the joint order of the EEA market? [[The president calls.]] Third, international financial markets are rapidly developing. [[The president calls.]] Is it likely that the previously mentioned White Book will eventually have much to say about the future development of the financial system? We have seen, along with all these changes, that many other financial functions have simply been raised as we squeeze into the banks with various requirements. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Fourth and final: When can we expect that the initial steps will be taken in selling property items from banks? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u43	President wants to remind you. A senator to respect speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u44	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for recording this case. Although I am not directly exposed as prime minister, this, of course, is a macropolitical matter that embraces the entire government and the council. I would like to begin by saying that the group appointed to be a White Paper on a vision of the future financial system led by Lárus Blöndalur, who is also the chairman of the state's Bank Hospital. It consists of experts; District Attorney Guðjón Rúnarsson, Director Ögmundsdóttir Ogmundsdótttir emissary, Kristrún Tinna Gunnarsdótttótttir, and Sylvía Kristín Krisf's Ólafsdóttir, engineer. They have even. has discussions with the political parties in order to gather into the sea, and to hear the emphasis of different categories. The thought behind this project, when we can, in the political field, take up a discussion that is based on more policy activities than we have ever seen. The reason we wanted to go this way is because we had quite a conversation here at the last assembly, including the same. Within the Economic and Business Committee, on the financial system and where we wanted to go with it. It was my clear conviction that we would have to take a stand in some way as to how far we wanted to go about it. A member of the Parliament rightly mentions the official rules for the Icelandic financial market. Where do we think the European principle, which we are part of by being part of, is adequate and where do we want to go further? The work of this team will last, but it will probably not be returned until the end of September. This is what the experts have informed the Ministry of finance. Sends have been extensive requests to make themselves feel at work, including, at work. has been sent requests to the Federal Bank, the Food Board, the Banks, the Contestant, etc. No doubt we will hear such views as those of others. A senator mentioned, which is the fact that much more people are involved in financial activity than just traditional banks. What we've been doing, this joint rule of action, is to create financial companies. But then we have financial functions in other companies, which are beyond the control of the principle. I didn't mean it. I didn't mean it. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy last week on virtual sheep. Now entering the council a bill that will deal specifically with the use of virtual funds in rapid banks. We've already got the first ATM working on a virtual sheep. I take that as an example because it is true. One senator says, evolution is fast, and it is only natural that it raises questions about how to keep up with this trend by policy development. I'd like to say, however, that we obviously need to take our stand on certain things that are not part of the joint European principle. Hv. A senator refers to an automaton, which many believe is one of the biggest strengths of banks in order to cope with economic fluctuations, that is the high financial sum we have in Icelandic banks. I'd like to mention the separation of business and investment banking. In the time of the last government, as a matter of course. A senator was now serving as a minister, working on the pros and cons. There, the European Union has not achieved a solidarity in its order to set one rule on the matter. I think it is very important for the Icelandic government to take sides in this regard. Do we want to separate? Do we want complete separation? Or do we want fences within the financial system that somehow separate this, which I think is a way that we could get together around here at the Generals scene? I'd like to mention possession. How practical and open is the possession of financial companies? I have personally suggested that we take over the holding of funds in low taxes. It's part of running a healthy, normal financial system. Then I also need to answer that question, and the council will tell me what we say about those who are involved in financial activities and who are not under the rule of a financial enterprise. How will we prevent them from possession of low taxes? These are the questions that the people who do the White Book work are dealing with, and I think it's very important that we get here for a discussion. Why are we doing this? Some might say that it's just a talk and a conversation, and it doesn't matter. This, however, is of great importance, for we need to answer how we are going to build a solid and competitive financial system here. Of course, since the fall in 2008, there have been significant changes. We have here introduced a European principle that has radically changed the character of the financial system. But we need to take a stand on what is not involved in the European principle. Then there's another matter that I thought was wrong. A senator specifics. It's the money policy. Then I just want less of it. A senator assumes that his own government set in motion work on a review of money policy. And in the spirit of being faithful to what I have said about not being a regular nod when new governments arrive, that committee will complete its work and return the results. I understand they'll be understood by the May/June month anniversary. Then we will have the opportunity to discuss the suggestions there will be presented on a review of the framework of money policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u45	Madam President. What kind of banks are banks for people and ordinary companies? In what direction will technology move the banking system, and how much will the government have to say? The European Union's new directive for changes in the banking system that will soon be implemented in this country has been compared to changes made in the telecommunications market 20 years ago. Governments must ensure that consumers are benefited by changes and services. Speaking to economist Johns Kays at a meeting of the United States, held in April 2016, and his book Our People's Money, published in 2015, is truly relevant to us in the discussion of the future financial system in Iceland. Now that the State has most of the financial system in its arms, it is the opportunity to change it so that it serves the community, not the most of itself. John Kay, in his book, says that banks around the world are primarily dealing with one another. Instead of making sound investments, they are laying down, betting, and taking risks that will happen in the public if things go wrong, as the example shows. I agree with John Kay, who wants the banks to handle payment services, to keep people's finances in place from cradle to grave, to save, to save, and to minimize risk. We're supposed to focus on the structure of the system, on the activities and needs of our customers and to separate investment banking and business banking activities so that loans will not be used in risky investments. I suggest that we look to John Kayr and what he suggests about the banking system, which takes into account consumer protection, and that there can be a spontaneous service to the public when it comes to tailoring ourselves to a banking system suitable for Icelandic society.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u46	Madam President. I appreciate this discussion. I think it's good for us to try to figure out what the financial system is developing or should be developing. I believe, however, that none of us in this hall are fully aware of what the financial system will be like after 10, 15 that I do not talk about 25 years. I think it's gonna be completely different from what we live in today's world. I have a dream, however, that the system will become more practical and, in fact, independent of border. That we individually do business with parties regardless of borders and even regardless of currency, as we can actually do on a small scale today. I believe that new financial technology will lead us to new paths for the benefit of individuals and businesses. How interesting it will be to see how that vision will be taken in the white book! But in modern times. It should not be surprising that at best, I have a lot of doubts as to whether the state is in the business of financial companies. I think one of the biggest projects in the next three, four years is just getting rid of all the property of the state of Icelandic financial companies. The government should not be taking any financial risks. It does not make sense for the government to get involved in financial affairs, as is done today. At the same time, we're going to try to make it known to our partners in the EEA that it is normal and right for us to have the authority to restrict financial resources, build fences so that no one else can take anything but a certain item, 101.75%, etc. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But we can't do this today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u47	A respectable president. Consider how this work came about. This is because we live with a government that does not share a common view of anything, perhaps the financial system at all. None of the classes making up that government could produce a vision or a policy in the affairs of the financial system before the last election. It will then be followed by a plan of government that instead of trying to get together on a common policy, which they assumed would be impossible, getting good people out of town to make notes about the financial system. These points of speech are to come to my attention by the end of September. Then the government will begin to discuss matters from them, but it has no idea what to do with the financial system so far. Of course, this is a completely unacceptable situation, a respectable president, especially in view of the fact that the financial system has been the largest subject in Iceland for at least a decade and actually a considerable longer. You would have thought that at that time and in all that debate over the future of the financial system, political parties and politicians could have developed some view of how they wanted things to develop. But this government does not exist in such a vision. Hv. paritaprevir In fact, Óli Björn Kárason came here and said that he had a dream about the financial system, and he described a certain course, his vision of evolution. He can be sure that there is a certain view and direction. But how does that vision work in harmony with the highest standard of view? Prime Minister? I don't think it's possible to achieve a lot of consistentity there in policy. The situation is this: The biggest political issue is inexpensive. Meanwhile, others take over, while it's foreign hedge funds that lay the lines on the development of the Icelandic financial system.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u48	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson, this conversation. A white book is entitled. Is it wise to discuss it now? Yes, that's very wise. V.E.G. The challenges we face were handled by the prime minister of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. Also reflected in the discussion the vast possession that we have here on the banking system following the sequence of events that have occurred since collapse. Is it called for trust? Yeah. Is there an increased transparency? Yeah. Are we always looking for stability in this market as well as in others? Yeah. Is it reasonable, then, to take along what really matters to the future? We're adding to the rule. It's a difference between balance between collapse and order then and now. Hv. A senator and a litigator brought in our own financial requirements and the demands we have placed in financial institutions, which we sometimes speak too large to fall, and the responsibility of the State there. It's all important. We have to look to the market in some way and combine the vast holdings here on the financial system. It is a policy, and it is in a government contract. In order for such a book as this to be offered the desired result and discussion that will be based on it and that we will prosper in order to improve effectiveness at the time we reduce the risk, it is important to have a comparison of less economic and neighboring countries, as we have seen. [[The president calls.]] Only then can we make major decisions about what we need to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u49	Madam President. Despite the marvelous rise of the past few years, the financial system is still being read in many ways after the insane conversion to the rule of the crash, which created the basis for the collapse. There's still a number of missing financial regulations that are stable and that economic transparency, including government, is good, and public policy is better on both money and interest policy. The public in Iceland is obviously better than a decade ago, but this does not mean that circumstances are good. The EU has to complete a series of post-requisitions. There is no increasing and constant supply of safe savings. There is a lack of better loan control on banks, and there is no need for motivation for cooperation between European funds, especially in the form of a foreign financial enterprise setting up a business here and a higher and better competition for financial markets. Abduction of insurance on loans to individuals is a step that many have called on to which such insurance is promoted, removed from individual interests, very seriously under the uncertainty of driving money levels in the interest of loan institutions at the expense of the public. That's something we have to deal with, no matter what else. In fact, financial stability has been a great subject for the past few years, but there are no formal standards for financial stability, nor are there any measurements of stability that mark the situation. Finally, there is no discussion of the financial system in Iceland perfect without referring to the fact that Iceland's money policy is self-sustaining, unstable and unrealistic. The performance of the free flow of capital and independent money policy are excellent goals, but only two of these can be maintained at the same time. Both the public and the companies in the country need an open economy and a predictable team, so we have to change from the policy of having a high-growing economy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u50	Madam President. I'd love to have a white book, and it's only good to say. I would like to use this opportunity to say that no white book on financial systems can become significant, can become worth the paper, which has failed to deal with the price insurance that has been buried and has shown its destructive power to the homes of citizens and businesses. Madam President. There's more than a place to count them all on this occasion. All risks due to prices are put on the weaker parties of a loan agreement, but the strong party does not carry such risks. There's no chance in borrowing, Madam President, against this risk. No, Madam President, the vast responsibilities of borrowing are put on and the invisibility of payment is so close to borrowing funds during the loan period. Indirect taxes find their way into payments and payments and raise them if at all possible. The lack of protection in borrowing is complete, as the examples show. These are individuals and homes and local employment companies, small and mediumsized. Presumptuous loans are determined - determined, Madam President - without any connections or comparisons with the outside world, where commitments of this kind to individuals and small companies cannot be found. We have reason to forbid loans in foreign currency when appropriate. The crown doesn't have anything in common with it, except its name. She's like any other foreign coin. No calculus has been given on how to calculate the value of loan from public sources. Monitoring this part of the market appears to be an image of damage. The White Book must contain a significant contribution to the insurance policy, even though it was only a consideration of how Iceland could be killed in a group of Western countries, our neighboring countries in financial matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u51	Madam President. Each country's financial system is a fundamental premise that society can function. It is an essential part of the cardiovascular system in the community. That requires trust, and trust is needed. The need to be prepared to care for the needs of the country, as well as the ability to handle international relations with other financial systems. This requires that they submit to all the same principles as the European financial system. There's no need for Icelandic solutions. A talk about a financial system that is healthy and competitive cannot be cut off from a conversation about currency. We are not going to be successful in terms of the financial system and the economic situation in Iceland until a real currency is adopted instead of the crown. New creation companies and other SMEs depend on Icelandic financial companies. Of course, the same applies to the majority of the people in the country. These companies do not have the same opportunity to finance themselves by means of ways that are larger companies. They must have high interest costs and limited service. The structure of the financial system must take into account and aim for our innovation companies to thrive here on land, but it does not have to flee in order to grow normally or to give up otherwise. Swinging in currency and high interest rates is the obstacle we have to replace. It should be the primary objective of a financial and financial review.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u52	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for bringing up the subject. A white book is certainly of great importance in this regard, for it enables us to control the assignment we are talking about. In contrast with other politicians, I do not speak to some magic solution when looking for ways to manage my financial system. They don't exist. V.E.G. In his speech earlier, the prime minister attributed to more than the traditional bank functions of which more members of the body have been introduced. It also helps to form a phenomenon that in the past seems to make a big difference for the homes and individuals in the country, such as the little loan companies, just to name one example. Where should they fit into this pattern? Where is the ever - increasing banking trade done in recent years? The word goes on to the bank; the business takes place at home. Where is the holding of financial assets to be, and does that not have to be clear? All of this is of utmost importance to us, and it is not that we need to be careful about this matter. Even so, only about ten years ago, we went through a bank crash and burned ourselves as hard as one nation can on one financial system.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u53	Madam President. One of the most important interests for the nation outside a stable currency is international competition for the consumers of financial markets. I don't think that's far enough for us to be in business with Facebook banks or Google banks and there's a vision that I'm not afraid of. Icelandic consumers deserve the best loan options, but they are far from today's. I don't care what a bank like that is. On the other hand, when it comes to selling state property in banks, especially by the independent party at the tablekeeper, the steps are spooked. A possible sale should be fully transparent. But I remember when I heard an internal person in the financial system shortly after the collapse saying that the person who owns a bank will own Iceland. I don't want any one or two clans to have Iceland. We got plenty of it before the crash. Madam President. I'd also like to make up the credit card at financial companies. When was it really decided that the highest paid staff of the community would be people in financial companies, people who are naturally employed in the service for their customers? In some cases, finance managers and even state banks have become the richest people in the country, richer than clients in the same financial companies. To see it, a magazine's income is all it takes to look at it. Banks should be more conservative service companies for consumers and companies where clients are in the pre-established rather than the overkilled salary paid by the executives of these same financial companies.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u54	V.E.G. President. I think I'll be spending too much time with the rest. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, we're turning into one and the same man, and I can sort of agree with everything he said earlier. They ask: Is a white book justified? Of course, she has just as much right as what else, but the question is, Does it have any meaning? Are these changes so fast and so quick on their own as to how this changes will develop and how it's going to be? What really matters to us is whether we have a competitive financial system. Is it practical and efficient? When we make a rule and consider what rules we should have, we can ask ourselves, " Am I going too far? ' Do we go to such an extent that it cannot become practical, efficient, and competitive? Are we so burned up by the collapse that we're going too far in the book? I'm a little worried about that. What matters most to us is that it can serve us with practicalness and efficiency. I also worry about the future that I know many people have in this fine house, that the state is a major success in a financial market for the future. I'm with older men at the council, in my age, not in experience, and I remember exactly what it was like when the state owned all the big banks. In fact, they were all defective, the services were poor, and the system was inaccessible and harmful. We need to strike every sort of blocker, but we must also think that the system is serving us as it is supposed to be done. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u55	V.E.G. President. I thank you for this discussion and will only be staying at the position of the State's ownership of financial institutions that have been discussed in the discussion. That's the biggest thing in Europe. I think it's very important that we stick to our policy of looking for ways to reduce possession. That's why my squad has spoken, and it's at the same time the highest. Government. It's said that the state's funds will be attributed to at least One systematicly important financial agency that I think is very important. Therefore, it is important to obtain a summary of the above - quoted white book. to be discussed and reasonable because in the years that come, financial and business banks will make much more changes than we have discussed here in view of the next section of the European normal work of payment services. It's inevitable. The number of participants on the market will increase. The competition will harden. If there are borders on the ministry and there will be great innovations and innovations, they will eventually fall to some extent. Since the market opens, it is vital that we make good decisions in the light of transparency, trust in this market, and effectiveness. That's why I'm glad this White Book is coming and this discussion here, which is part of the process we're about to enter, this dramatic change in financial market. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u56	A respectable president. I traced my first talk to the White Book for work. In the present situation, this is particularly sad, i.e. The current policy failure because there is now a unique opportunity, was at least Although there is a gradual decline, there has been a unique opportunity to reorganize the Icelandic financial system so that it will begin to work for the public and the economy in the country. Then there is a committee that is not to be handled and should not even discuss the various basics of the financial system, although it is already clear in this discussion that there is hardly a great deal of agreement between the two points, at least at least one point before the government. From the different position of the directors today. Meanwhile, things continue to develop without any policy or show from the government. The national bank, the state bank, is about to start building on giant headquarters on the most expensive property in the country before it is discussed in the development of that bank. The latest news in the News newspaper reported that the government was going to yield prenup to the stocks of Arion's bank, the prenuptial rights that were not even familiar with here for a long time, but now it seems that the government is going to yield for this prenup. All of this is part of the same thing, part of a trend in which governments and other governments work out the lines of the development of the Icelandic financial system, gradually losing out on the big opportunity we had to establish a healthy financial system in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u57	A respectable president. I would like to get a white book with some sort of summary of the points that are relevant in the Icelandic discussion of our economy and its progress. That is excellent in itself. On the other hand, like some who have spoken before, I think that the center of the discussion really doesn't require a white book to talk more about it. Like what? paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy mentioned earlier is sometimes referred to as the triangle impossible, which is called a variety of names, but there are three things, an independent financial policy that the government has decided to have, a free flow of capital that authorities are planning and probably in the financial world here as elsewhere and in the third place, a constant walk. We can only get two of those three things. If we decide to have independent money policy, as the authorities have decided, and if we're going to have a free flow of capital, that means an unstable gang with the bodies 100%. That's how it's gonna be. It can be mixed up somehow. You can have a free flow or a bit of independent money policy or anything, but the deeper truth remains, and we need to react. Some believe that we should enter the European Union and adopt the euro. There's one way. It would help with some of these things, which meant sacrifice for independent money policy. It is a discussion that we know and do not need a white book in itself to discuss. Let us assume that the future is like this: We're going to have here an Icelandic crown of independent money policy and a free flow of funds. Then there is the underlying question on the stability of the crown: How can the Icelandic public live with a long - term unstable gang? In my opinion, there's only one way to do that, and I'm not sure it's working, I hope it does, but it's that there's some kind of special Icelandic sport that Finna has hockey and Germans have beer. [[The president calls.]] If we don't get there, I think we have to face up to the fact that independent money policy will always make Iceland unstable.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u58	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the advert, please. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson, for speaking up this urgent matter. The government's Treaty invites the development of White Books on the financial system in the country that will be submitted to the General Assembly before policy decisions will be made about the financial system. It also states in the Treaty that the government's will is that trust in financial matters will be strengthened. What, then, does this white book contain? We run in this small country way too big and too expensive a banking system. First, the White Book has to show how the insurance will be handled, how it will be canceled after nearly 40 years of walking with the nation on its back, and building fences to the destruction of the insurance policy on the homes of the country. Second, I believe that it involves how investment banking and business banking will become separate and ventured over by investment banks. Third, I think this white book should show how and when the state intends to sell its ownership in the banks, how much and where. To responsible parties, not to some piece of paper. Fourth, I believe that the White Book should show how to monitor the bank function. That there will be sufficient monitoring to prevent risks from creating a system risk so that the financial system, the national economy, the whole public, and even the national sovereignty will not be compromised.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u59	Madam President. Thank you for your time. I don't object to White Book work like this, I think in long-term dating it's good always to watch how evolution can turn out and what you might need to do. But there are two things that I fear most in this attempt to put matters off. On the one hand, the major factor is the cost of our coin. I share a dream with you. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son that we're ever going to have access to a global financial system, not just some of them. That will not be the case, however, until we have an international currency that we do not have today. It is simply the biggest obstacle to international rivalry into a domestic financial market. It's a two-way market, we can say that there are two countries in the country when it comes to this, those people who have access to foreign capitals in all other markets, and are about to be a pretty bossy investment on national markets and so on companies and companies who have to live at the high level of domestic interest. If we are to continue living in that arrangement, there will be a great increase in social misunderstandings. Then there is the second factor that is an independent problem. 70% of the government's ownership of the financial system is competitive. It has the same negative effect on the market that one owner has 70% of it, even though the owner is the State. We see many evidences that competition could be a little more vivid and more powerful in this market than it really is. All of us agree on the importance of the fact that prior to the sale of the property of the State, there is a need to ensure distribution of property. It does not take a white book to make that decision. Already, it is possible to begin as widely distributed as possible and begin releasing the State's ownership part in a transparent and careful manner so that we learn from past mistakes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u60	Madam President. I appreciate the debate. Congress officials who have totally lived up to my expectations, and so far it went. I have to say here at the end because of what. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, an advisor, mentioned that selling money companies has to ensure distribution: This is just one of the things I think it is very important to be examined specifically at work. We've had a lot of people in this room talking about this. According to the results we got at work by the time we got here. The Economic and Business Committee at the last Parliament has little way of ensuring distribution of holdings by the European Regulation. We will need to understand how we will do so if we want to have a distribution of property and to examine the rule that we have already made. Hv. paritaprevir The coverr of Davíð Gunnlaugsson's account made it possible for me to see the case where he claims that the government has made some new decision to abstain from premarital rights. I don't know. A senator has a fixed meeting that he himself concluded that at a time when a special replacement contract was made that the Council of Buy had the right to consult an independent investment bank for advice on adjusting the options of the options, the bank would be registered on the market. That deal as a matter of course. A senator shared in doing the highest work. The prime minister of his day is still valid, and I feel that less is involved. A senator at his office was a great history in these matters. After that, I notice that many people are asleep. Congress officials are, in fact, financial policies, not financial markets. Sure, they're connected. I indicated earlier that the committee of reexamination of money policy would come back in May or June, and we would have the opportunity to discuss it. When we talk about a real currency here, like we don't have a real currency, I must object to it. However, as in this hall, we know that our options have been analyzed. The 2012 Secular Bank concluded that on the one hand it was $1,000 with certain national eco-weapons and the euro that infiltrates the European Union and is therefore much bigger in political matters. [[The president calls.]] The committee now assigned was then specifically assigned to review a route that is also to be broken in the Secret Bank report, currency advice, but I think we should discuss that none of these routes will prove to be a magical solution. Although some currency is real and others are not, I think we should be aware that there are advantages and problems with all currency. They reflect the economy they serve as their tool. However, I would rejoice if we had a serious talk about these matters at a council and perhaps a special discussion about money policy as such, not the financial system. [[The president calls.]] I think we're going to discuss it when the White House Committee returns its work. Excuse me, Madam President, that I should pass the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u61	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for questioning and answering my inquiries. We'll discuss ocean resources, crops and protection. There's a lot of calcium pickets in the ocean. Some float into the sea, and others are shallow and red. There are so many red seams involved here. Their work has been in the hands of the Icelandic paracarist society, ehf. ... onTrueddall since 2007. It's a dessert product. Organic witnessed production. It's a very important place to work at Bilddal. 75% belongs to Celtic Sea Minerals in Iceland, that's an Irish company, and the rest is in Icelandic. The calculus law in Eagleaut is estimated to be some 20 million m3. The top is a living layer about 10 to 15 inches thick. Below, there are dead flaps in the wrong laws, up to 8◯10 m. The task is that reduptems, these paralytics, are a very slow - growing species. They are sometimes likened to oak trees. It is important to think carefully about the environmental impacts and to restrict them in this country as far as possible out of reason. We are now being checked in more places than in Eagle Shield. I mention the Gulf, the deep ice, and even the glacier. Containers form both vital and delicate ecosystems. When the material is processed, it is simply scooped up from the bottom of a ship, crushed, and cleaned. It has been found abroad that there is a very poor recovery in these algae after work has been done. In fact, there are no countermoves available. The conference on protecting sea space in the Northeastern Atlantic, OSPAR, is concerned with the development of paracentesis. It is in most lands where it is no longer permitted. OSPAR considers this species in danger, and it is correct. It has been banned by the Indians, but the Norwegians may allow some of such material. Now there are three questions to the highest level. Environment and resource minister. Actually, they're lying with you, but I'm just gonna slide over them. These include reevaluation of the extent and progression of PG and proposed extensions of this processing, the counter-improvement procedures. And finally: Does Ministers believe that calcium melancholy is in line with national planning policies for the years 2015•226, saying that marine and coastal areas are based on an overall vision of the marine environment and that ecosystems and sustainable resource use should be maintained? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u62	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the inquiry and putting this matter on the council program, which I believe is urgent. There is already a study and development of paralytics in Arnarf taking place, but at least at least one person is also expected to do so. In the deep ice and the Gulf. There is legislation on the evaluation of environmental effects required before authorisation. Privacy in Isafjörg is now under advisement of the Organization and needs to be sought. to a number of institutions and organisations prior to the implementation of a possible work permit. There has been no study in the Ministry to reevaluate paralytic studies in the whole of Iceland based on evaluation of the protection needs of the panel in the OSPAR Convention. A calculus study should be conducted with the same signs as fishing and other uses of marine resources, ensuring the protection of the species and the environment and the sustainable use of the resource. Calculating areas are defined as areas that are generally considered to be deteriorating or at risk, as reported in the 2010 OSPAR report on habitats on a disaster list. In certain measures to protect the habitat in the OSPAR region done in 2013, the OSPAR region of Iceland does not need special protection, although calcium microchip studies have not been extensively used so far. Therefore, the proposal to protect the habitat applies only to OSPAR areas III, Ireland and western Britain. In that area, there is a long history. Therefore, there is no direct recommendation on the OSPAR agreement to take particular care of the protection of paralytics in Iceland, but the situation in Britain provides a basis for better research on the history and status of the cases there, precisely because there is now a planned paralytic development in new regions of Iceland, as a prole has rightly indicated. I don't know how the anti-paralate mines have been used in Eagle Care, which is the only place here's work is being done. An assessment of planned paramalectomy in Isafjörg provides a discussion of counterweight measures. During calculus work, there are a number of factors that the materials can interfere with. In the process, habitats are destroyed at the site of development, deep pits are formed at the bottom of the ocean, but also rocks supplied with the material can affect the environment in the vicinity of the target area. It is noted that the negative effects of the subject can be reduced by counter measures, however, the effects of such counter-improvement are not well known here on the country; their success is uncertain as assessed by the Marine Research Agency. The minister has not determined whether or not the current and proposed paralytic study is in line with national planning and has not been conducted in the Ministry or its institutions. However, there is a significant point, i.e. that we need to examine the use of the oceans on a broad scale rather than just individual projects or forms of life. Modern marine and coastal waters are now more diverse than were decades ago, and it can be said that proposed marine and coastal legislation will be an important tool for implementing these areas in terms of the many products being developed in the area. I don't trust myself here and now to tell you that an ever-growing paralate study is in harmony with national policy and its regulations. I feel, however, that there is reason to respond. A candidate requesting information on the status of the cases on species and habitats that are considered to be a protection requirement according to the OSPAR agreement, particularly the areas of the paracompetary. Iceland wants and should be a prominent part of a work aimed at the protection and sustainable use of the ocean, and it is important to participate in international agreements on the materials, especially the OSPAR agreement on both the pollution and the protection of biological diversity.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u63	V.E.G. President. Thank you for taking up this case and for taking up the case, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, and as a minister for an answer. It is important that these species are monitored for environmental impacts and fishing tolerance. I would point out that a bill was adopted at the council two years ago on the marine crops as a result of a project that has been done in the Brefuebjörður. This is exactly what those who own 80% of the trucked valley society are interested in involved. The work has been done to provide environmental protection and protection, as well as sustainable innovation. I'm glad we have a discussion on this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u64	Madam President. We're here to discuss an interesting subject. Thank you. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson for recording it. It deals with the use of the sea and this form of algae, red filaments. Slows down, slows down, slows down, slows down, slows down, slows down, slows down, slows down, slows down. A senator presents a wide range of risks in the processing process, looking to sustainable uses. I want to thank you, too, the highest. Environment and resource minister for his input here. But I'd like to ask a few questions on the other side. I understand that these seams are very special and very rich when it comes to nutrients and minerals. In the process of feeding, interesting developments have taken place. What is the situation in this regard? Just the other side: Displacement, innovation, that's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u65	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for answers and a couple of shots. Councilmen for their indentation. But this ecosystem is said to be fragile, i.e. They're redtons, and they're red, and they're the things that suck up. I'm not sure that the effects of the mines at Eagleland were very carefully investigated. There is now one task. The challenge measures mentioned are made in Ireland on a very small scale and a visual assessment of their effect. Actually, there is very little or no knowledge of counter measures when the school business is on a major scale. We have not discussed any of the dust that comes with it, nor do we have a lot of information about Bilddal. But the main issue is this: Sustainable uses in this case may have a big question mark. Study operation -- let's take a purr school somewhere. Well, it's not reversible. I have a feeling that this business is basically a student business. It is simply taking on materials that are actually being renewed only in a very long time, if over a new head. That's why this is the limit of tolerability question, i.e. whether we allow this work in Iceland to meet certain challenges. Then it's just like any other study project, and it has to be subject to a lack of sustainability, but tolerated, because it's going to wear off. My last words, though, are: There is a limited amount of calculus that can go up to the country. It's just a planned increase that I'm most concerned about. Other than that, I think we have to take care of these matters far better than we have so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u66	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. Congress members for having a part in this important discussion and agree that we are here to discuss matters that have brought little attention so far, so the situation is truly positive. paritaprevir It's been recorded by Ari Trausti Guðmundsson. I just want to mention that in the background report of OSPAR, and also in the review of the National Institute for Extrination in Isafjörður, the study of paralytics in the Iceland's seas is few and not known how largely the proportion of paralytic areas around Western and Iceland have been disturbed. I agree with what. A senator says we don't know very much about these matters. Nor is it known whether more than one community structure of life thrives in the paracaric areas, but a recent study shows that here we have more than one type of parachipic population. Palpitation is known to be slow, and destruction is considered irreversible. There are no special rules or laws on protection or use of calcium poor areas in Iceland and there have generally been no specific rules on habitats or ecosystems in the seas around Iceland. The only habitats in the ocean in Iceland that have been protected are coral areas and forks. It is desirable for me to improve the research on the spread of paralytics in Iceland, to evaluate the extent to which the paralytic areas have been disturbed, and then to examine the need for protection and use in this vulnerable habitat. I'm going to take up that case with a marine dignitary and agricultural minister. About questions now. paritaprevir Miss Willum Þór, son of Þórsson, on the matter of product development, must be recognized by the minister that he does not have a rhythmic answer to that question, unfortunately. Otherwise, I'd like to thank the senators for this fine discussion. I hope we see these matters develop in a positive way in the future, for the benefit of all.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u67	A respectable president. Some time ago, a case in which a student of unemployment benefits had taken a course and was made to reimburse the unemployment benefits that the person received by a decision from the health committee. I'd like to ask a minister just about the interpretation and the underlying criteria, i.e. what is the underlying evidence that the unemployment insurance laws apply only at university and not at other school levels, e.g. in high school. What is the position of a minister on this limit? The law says, by permission of the president: ▪ Acquaint study, practical or literary in the established educational institution of the public educational system in Iceland, at least six months. In addition, there is a university education, and there is another study that makes preparation requirements comparable to university education. There are no studies for individual students. In this case, the subject was in just one course. I wondered why it would be necessary to be just a single university course rather than a college education when people might be trying to gain more knowledge and a better background in order to be more acceptable in the workplace. Does the minister's thinking alter these rules so that they do not attend university studies? I find it interesting in the decision-making committee of welfare matters, which, with the permission of a president, says of the principle, that they only apply to university studies but the student's studies were not at the university, to be held at the university. As a player in reading the law, I find it strange when I see that it applies only to university studies, but I also find it clear to me that a single course is not to be studied. No matter what school level it is, that sentence stands alone and in its place. As for the law in general and the interpretation of the health committee on this and the point that a single course is not considered for study, I ask, in effect, how can you justify this decision-making committee?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u68	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. I do not know the exact decision that the senator makes or has read. One of the main roles of unemployment insurance is to ensure that individuals who have previously been active in a labour market but lose their job support during the time it takes to find a new job. The general rule, then, is that a person who studies at the same time does not count as secure under unemployment insurance laws, which involves continuous study, practical, or booky, within the general educational system of at least six months. The reason for this possibility is that the person is not considered to be in an active job search at the same time he is studying. Nevertheless, it has been considered important to accept study as part of a labour market operation in certain cases. In the 2015 Labour Regulation for studies and courses approved as labour market resources, you can find more information on what studies and studies are considered a workforce strategy based on labour market procedures as long as those who have lost their jobs are working for job purposes. There are therefore several ways of studying as part of a workforce, but generally, as a result, the study is working and there is an increased chance that the individual will be active again in the labour market. It is important, especially to maintain the effectiveness of those who lose their job while looking for a job. In the spring of 2008, when unemployment increased rapidly in this country, especially among young people, the laws cited in the inquiry came into play. If it was important for jobseekers to take one and more courses within the university without being part of an organized study, they would lead to loss of improvement. There was always a requirement for a low level of study, so the study did not qualify for the loan fund of Icelandic students. At the same time, 20 units required that the study be prepared directly to the jobseeker for the job counsellor. To consider these issues in context, there was a similar time when a challenge called a study is a work - working way in cooperation with the government and the company of the labour market. There they paid large sums of money from a unemployment insurance fund to pay the young people's way into high school. Those who remained loyal received temporary unemployment benefits while in high school. This effort, along with other projects that were attacked at that time, was based on clearance, according to Article 62. The law. These projects are all completed in view of improved employment status and today they are generally not allowed to pursue a loanable university degree or study that leads to a student's test at the same time as a new form of unemployment insurance. However, it remains permitted to pursue a small degree of university education without affecting the individual's right to unemployment insurance. The same applies to high school, but in the study and course of learning to deal with established labour market resources, it is assumed that studies conducted in evening and/or telecommunications courses are permitted to be only one third or less of a full study but can result in student's test at the same time as unemployment improvements are paid. Thus, it is not a question of what kind of study is being conducted but whether it is considered a workforce, for it is not expected that full - time students will be paid on unemployment at the same time. I hope to some extent that this will answer questions or questions. A senator, but to say that there has been no direct position to make changes in this regard. Perhaps this request will give us a basis for this examination.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u69	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The request by which Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, begins the talk with the highest authority. Minister, there's a reason to look into it. If you look at paragraphs 2 and 3. 52. g. law on unemployment insurance from 2006 makes you see the core of it is that it is the study of a total of 10 to 20 study units, called ECTS, which is therefore not considered to be loanable by the Icelandic loan fund. So the discussion here and possible changes should apply to and pursue the quality of education. I don't know this case for what it is. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson mentioned. Finally, I would like to say that the hard work program is a working way to provide an example of a highly positive project.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u70	A respectable president. I quote an article in Science from April 11, 2018 that a man has been reimbursed 3 60,000 dollars. where he accepted unemployment along with a long study in one class of high school. It was in the case of a minister earlier that if I understood him correctly, telecommunications were excluded. It's all very strange to me. If a social ruling committee learns that this sole telecommunication has made it necessary for him to repay his unemployment benefits for that period, the minister must examine that decision further and perhaps get an explanation for it. Overall, it must be positive to have a clear re-education laws linked with the law on unemployment insurance. I think it's helpful for everyone. It is mentioned in the case of the decision that the very purpose was to increase knowledge in English in order to obtain potential additional jobs. I think everyone is aware that there is a need for a closer look at the structure of education in this country. We need to develop a proper education program in general, from the end of maternity school to the end of a doctor's school. Without question, there is something to explain more about that part of a person who is reaching out for a new education outside his job.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u71	A respectable president. There may not be much more to say. I think it's just a good thing. In case of a moment. A senator will send a website to this decision, and this report will be of particular interest to me and provide information. Senator. I thank him for the inquiry he brought here, and I hope we can share the information in this light if I get it from the beginning. A senator in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u72	A respectable president. Traffic safety is a matter of well - being and, therefore, one of the most important cases in government history. Guilts and punishment are one of the protective links in the traffic chain. There are many factors that need to be considered that in order for this way to accomplish its purpose and to be carried out in the most reasonable way. That's what we're going to talk about today. Only if the police are able to comply with the changes will there be great protection. It has often been observed by traffic security programs that show police performance is the most important factor involved in traffic safety. It has been said that four out of five traffic accidents due to speeding and drunk driving can be prevented by the police'active surveillance. It's my belief that the money of fines is not the primary muscle or what the police will do when they do their little initiative check. Of course, the level of fines may offend people according to economic status. Will they just drive fast or forget their driver's license? Then there's a question in the technical age whether it's necessary to fine people for not bringing a driver's license. Also, I would like to mention the rise in a new ticket for driving on nail beds. A person who hasn't switched to a summer sheet may have 80,000 dollars. As a result, he will not be able to afford new summer widows when the guilt has been paid. At the same time, a minimum fine for not wearing the seat belt is excited and driving against red light, which is two common reasons why accidents occur and the severity of accidents often depends on these factors. I don't remember a lot of accidents because of nails. Then there are the changes that obviously have the right to the full, such as 40,000 bucks. a ticket to use a mobile phone while driving. That's why I want to ask the highest. Transporter, how the sum was determined and what are the main reasons behind this new Regulation. At the same time, I would like to ask if the dot system was further used to achieve the same objective. I believe that many people are avoiding guilt rather than the loss of rights. Has the highest. A minister makes sure that the police have the resources and can organize themselves to follow these changes through a traffic safety program or in other ways? Is it safe to deal with the issues that come up through automatic surveillance such as speed and red-light cameras and when the examination is maligned, for example? Also, I would like to ask if a minister intends to work for the short-term registration of foreign vehicles on a vehicle record so that he can follow up traffic laws linked to such vehicles.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u73	A respectable president. Thank you. The starter for bringing this up and saying that fines are not the only means at all and not necessarily the most important in reducing traffic accidents. There is a question of key changes to the current rights, and I can say that for instance, there have been no changes in the use of a mobile phone without a hand-free device since 2006. Transport accidents have been reported by the Research Committee. It is suggested that cellular use is among the major causes of serious road accidents. There have been serious cases in which bus drivers in heavy transport have been exposed to the use of such instruments while driving on the highways of the country. The beginning of these changes can be attributed to the letter of the local Minister of Internal Affairs from September 7, 2016, who requested to be examined for changes in the regulations of fines and other laws due to traffic violations. According to traffic laws, it is a federal prosecutor's recommendation to make a recommendation to a minister for a fine on the grounds of violations of traffic laws. In a letter from June 9, 2017, the State Attorney to the current transport minister proposed a new regulations that would be set up in which traffic violation tickets would generally be raised in accordance with the prices of change since the amount for individual offenses was determined by the exception of guilty due to violations against 47 gr. a traffic law, on handless mobile phones, would increase substantially above GDP and would be 40,000 U.S. This proposal was made because of the increased incidence of such fractures and because of the risk of having a mobile phone while driving. The prosecutor also suggested that the lowest level of fines be set at 20,000 dollars. with the only exception that a ticket for not carrying a license would be 10,000 credits. I can agree with thoughts of passing. A senator's question is, Should this be necessary? Of course it is simple in monitoring. The district attorney also suggested that the level of fines, including taking into account the number of traffic violations at the level of fines, can be studied up to 500,000. instead of $300,000. As has been. This proposal is expected to be part of a bill that will be presented in the autumn Summit to new traffic laws. In a new Regulation, it is authorized to fine on a red traffic light, a vehicle driving after receiving the result, and a safety belt is not used on a motorcycle. In addition, wording changes are made in several aspects of the Regulation in order to agree with the cases where a driver has not repeated driving tests or is on the driving test and therefore does not have a valid driver's license. With a new Regulation the value of Annex III is also removed, a record of guilty due to violation of the regulations for transport of hazardous cargo, from 2010. A review of this Annex is being conducted in the Department of Transport, but until that work is completed, fines for the resulting fracture will be determined according to the one mentioned in Article 1. a new Regulation, i.e. to protect the fines from 20,000 to up to 30,000 dollars. depending on the nature and extent of the fracture. New regulations were placed on the Ministry's web for review, but previously the State Attorney had requested reports from the state police authorities and police officials. There were eight reviews everywhere, most of which were positive. The new Regulation was signed February 28, 2018, and sent to publication. It went into effect yesterday. The argument behind its appointment is that traffic security should be priority. There are a lot of accidents and serious accidents on the road. We've got a leg to push. The increasing speed of traffic is concern, and increasing the rate of fractures is a factor in preventing traffic accidents. We are to be among the best nations in terms of reducing the number of deaths. Monitoring and fines are provided if we break away, which is designed to make us better road users. That is the key to the issue of traffic security. With reference to traffic security, fines and other laws should take into account the severity of the offenses punished before them and the danger they pose. fines have taken little or no changes for over a decade, but by a new directive they are increased in accordance with the price of development. It is primarily a matter of increased traffic safety, with low fines being limited by subsidies. More fines, however, have fallen to provide drivers with added access and thus contribute to increased traffic security. Because of the question of the follow-up of regulations and fine development, the Agency has recently introduced the content of a new Regulation to the general public, as well as its content in most media. We're also taking this discussion here. All of this helps to reveal the change. This is not expected to result in an increase in fines due to traffic violations. As a result, finesaturation is unsurpassed. Then, in my final words, I will come to two other three questions. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u74	V.E.G. President. We'll talk here about what. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur's annual Árnason asks about major changes in fines and repairs to modern - day traffic violations. V.E.G. The minister of Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson was here reviewing reasons for these growths and policy changes that are primarily, in view of what I caught here, that traffic violations have been fined and have not changed in nearly a decade in many cases. In some cases, low guilt does not have the desired power. I'll take the cheeky bang. Foreman on driver's license and minimum fine at 20,000 dollars. Because of the changes that have occurred in our society in an electronic age. V.E.G. A minister also introduced them. Then I want to add to the discussion with a question that has increased the use of bicycles: What does a violation of bicycle regulations mean?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u75	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister for the answers and can agree with many of the points presented, it is very important to listen to what the research committee of road accidents says and what her findings show where accidents are going to occur. Thus, during my first review, I feel that emphasis was put on improving the missing but without having an overview of the severity of the fractures. As I used earlier, nail beds are more expensive than crossing red light or not wearing safety belts. This needs to be done in a complete system when the traffic laws are implemented. I also mentioned the earlier point system, which I think is very good at using because it helps to bring rightness to a loss. Nobody wants to lose their rights. That's where the economy is not important. A high priority must be paid to ensure that a road safety program is fully financed so that the police can have extra control. No matter what the finesse level is, no one wants to be stopped by the police. Police are also supposed to be visible without stopping people; all they have to do is be visible and so affect people's behavior. I think it's extremely important. This is a combination of education, safety, and police surveillance and outings to reduce the number of accidents. That's what matters. Other than that, I thank the highest. Minister for good discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-02-58.u76	A respectable president. I also thank you for the reason. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason for recording this. There is exactly one factor in getting the information and discussion out into society, that fines have been raised, and that there is actually a need to be careful. One way to reduce the number of accidents is to comply with the rules, regulations, and bans set to do so. I restate that under the law of traffic it is the attorney for the state to make a suggestion to a minister for the fines. Ideas come from there. Then they went to the D.A. and also to the Ministry's open Web. The rumors received were often positive. The main focus is to improve traffic security. Humans have been able to show that this is necessary. I want to thank you, too. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson for sharing in the discussion. He asked about the new question about bicycles. They're putting on a wheel against a red traffic light, which is sadly seen, not everyone is a law person, and often there is a great danger. So there's a warrant for a fine. That's what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason raised questions about the ability of the police to perform this task is setting up extra money for speed monitoring, which is crucial to traffic security, i.e. traffic security policy, and increasing government funding last week will also improve traffic security, for better roads provide more security. About a question as a dog. In fact, a senator has already spoken to me about the short - term registration of foreign vehicles, but it is also in connection with what man has been considering about changing income arrangements, some time spent. [[The president calls.]] Then it may be relevant that this registration is available. This is one of the projects we need to apply for setting things up. Thank you for your time.
