ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-64.u1	President. I'm going to make an account of the warning. Piranians are on the European Committee's list, but the warning points to the fact that after the arrival of a visitor, huge costs follow the induction of these laws, and it is difficult to see or almost impossible to see from the current financial programme whether these extra costs are expected. As history has shown, medication has been underestimated in a financial program, so I suggest that there is special care that enough money is needed to finance the further cost of these new laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-64.u2	A respectable president. We'll talk about that doll that fell into our house last night. I wanted to review some of the things you can see at the first sight of this bill. Here are some interesting points, such as. added here to the social security number which I assume is not necessarily in the original Regulation. It refers to electronic monitoring and the processing of financial information, credit, and so forth. Then, in a fun chapter, we discuss the rights of the registered and limitations of those whom I only want to bring attention to before going into the other. In the 17th. states that it is permitted to depart from the regulations of the Regulation on the basis of certain factors, and it states in the 4th issue, by permission of the President, that it may be taken from them in order to prevent, investigate, expose, or prosecuted for the punishment of the offense... There are solid principles on the clearness of the information and the right of the record. However, this may be removed from those regulations in order to prevent, expose, or accuse the guilty of criminal offenses. This sounds like a little bit to me like pre-active research warrants. How interesting it would be that the committee would be better informed if this was true and if it was part of the original Regulation and its limitations. I'd like to take a little study that relates to electronic monitoring, actually has to do with privacy and because users often create data that involve their own privacy, personal identity. There is something called in English, or giving up the location and monitor the location of the user. For example, many people have this problem on their phone, but this also applies to the location and use of each user on a Web site. It is a technique called cake or pastries. This is a very interesting addition to users and websites to store information about the user, store some information that can be reused the next time you visit the page, e.g. symbol for login, so that it does not have to repeat the login in any way and so on. There's a lot of complications here. However, in this Regulation it is mandatory to specify whether the web cookies are using this one, in English, in English, in English, in English or in this possibility to monitor the user. This actually works in a way, if I try to explain this, that when a user goes to a Web site, he does not get into just one website he's about to use but can pick up a lot of other websites. I left, for example. on a simple website that deals only with how GDPR, the personal protection legislation, works and explains it. It allows the website to agree that she can record these web cookies about me and gives me little chance to refuse, that was just one key, to agree. You need to take a specific back door through the second page of this website, which will better explain the type of tissue cookies involved. This unique page contains 56 fatty acids which are associated with a wide range of other tissues, e.g. very many Google Web sites and there's Adaptive Change, Ad This, AdMeta, Averticing.com, Aggregate Knowledge, Amazon Associates - this is a lot of other sources who will be allowed to know that you or your website visit this news page. Then it works a little bit in a way that people may recognize when they leave e.g. on Amazon and buys or examines any products, and when it goes on this news page or many other pages related to Amazon, these websites, the advertisement appears from e.g. Amazon or Google that knows about this information, which object was considered, and can provide the offer or advertisement or similar to that associated with the use of the person on the website. This personal protection law specifically discusses the right of the user to know who will be informed about his use of the Internet. But as it was clear on e.g. This page is not necessarily so easy to turn it off, not necessarily that people think about it. It's really just, like, "Do you want to use a cookie or not?" Besides, there's a little help button if people want more information. The information facing people is simply a huge document of information, like everybody knows when they've installed a new software, you get a long text from a user ID that's been showing you that people don't read the whole equation. People like to tap yes. It makes it possible that such legislation is not really enough to achieve its objectives in all respects. Yes, people have a potential, a new possibility, but our obligation to inform people of their rights is still available. If the government's budget is examined, education is for the sake of a new personal protection laws just to be achieved by the government, which is good and blessed. They work on a reference to the rights of people. That, on its own, is an excellent goal. But it is missing the surveillance section, this personal protective agent mentioned in the bill, and this has been discussed in the discussion at least a lot, and all the funds associated with the part of the induction process. There's not a lot of stuff here. It is a law, e.g. of the 22nd rib. the rights to the individualised decisions based on automatic data processing. Now, a man is trying to put this into context with a serious situation that we've experienced in recent years. You might think of Cambridge Analytica, who were accused of election damage. Such activities definitely used methods to distinguish subgroups and then direct certain types of advertisements to influence their views in elections. You wonder if any rules you have here would prevent such a possibility or not. At any rate, it would help in the bill if there were a known example that would provide the need for this new protection. It would be helpful to put it, for example. In the costumes we know in Iceland, such as. The leak at Vodafone's texting. I'm talking about the leak problem that took place in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, linked, for example. Section 48. The bill on punishment. There was a certain individual who was wronged and judged for it. However, the same example would lead to harsher punishment compared to the penalty of 48 C.E. ....., although it specifically includes the need to have information on the number of registered individuals, not just one or two, as it was in this issue? It would be very good to frame this discussion into a serious situation that we have in Iceland. Finally, I would like to discuss a few articles at the end of the bill. It shows that the Law on Personal Protection and the Treatment of Personal Information, No. 77/2000 will be removed, which is quite normal, but the bill states that temporary II regulations and regulations, regulations and licenses published by Perone Protection or Minister have been made on the basis of the law of No. 77/200 who fall down shall have effect, because they are not contrary to these statutes, namely: this bill, and the Regulation. In that law, a minister is authorized to make rules. When the law fails, ministers are no longer authorized to make rules. I wondered, then, if the rules can be held, even though they specifically say that these are temporary. I don't know how long this provision is going to last. I wondered if it's normal for them to keep their values. This link is 54th par. This extensive bill, which is a change in other laws, is 42 other laws. This bill also affects a lot of regulations that may need to be considered on the basis of the changes in the bill and whether these regulations are natural or not and if they are temporary, in this light. As we have seen before, this is not a small bill and it is not a long time to go over it. I'm looking at 1st. as a convention of our senators, who have been able to cross it quickly and find some specific points where we listen to what each of us has found in this bill. We are simply learning from one another. This is an important and big bill that we can't lose 1st. ... tolet go of the case directly to the committee. We must make use of 1st. to look into this matter before entering the committee, for if the deadline is to be brief, we need to make further use of 1st. to clear the situation into the basement.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-64.u3	A respectable president. Here we discuss the protection laws, which we obtained 147 pages to read less than 24 hours ago. It is virtually hopeless to discern exactly what changes are made in these new laws, which were not in the old law. What worries me a lot is that in the old personal protection Act - I think the Lawgiver has made a mistake in terms of social security laws - it is permitted to go beyond the power field of the building of personal information than I have ever seen with individuals. It is to individuals under the protection of the government insurance agency who are to be protected from the government's insurance agency. It's not just those people in there who are working at the insurance department, it's their mates too. Personal protection laws have been developed that ignore such things, since not only flagrant violations of the personal protection of the U.S. Insurance Institute but also violations of their sexual union. If your spouse does not allow you to be a source of detailed personal information, you can close up improvements for the clients. The Social Security Act says, with the permission of the President: ▪ When it comes to marriage, insurance agencies allow, on the basis of written agreements, to collect information on the spouse's income and payment from the above sources, if they could influence the sum of money. The same applies to the income of married couples who meet the criteria for harmonization as per Article 3. 62. g. a law on income taxes. If the applicant, employee or partner details from these sources are not correct, he/she should submit the data to confirm it. It also says: A map of information. If a decision cannot be made on reform rights, money and payment, and their reviews due to the lack of needed information attributable to the candidate, creditee or his or his partner, a insurance agency is permitted to postpone the decision and payment until it is improved. In case of postponement, if the person is to be notified, challenged to provide the necessary information and to appreciate the consequences of this, if the challenge to provide information is not met. Then comes into this information related to other parties. These individuals are listed here by permission of a president: ▪ National Institute of Employment, National Affairs, Iceland's National Institute of Health, National Institute of Social Affairs, Prison Institutes of Prison, Foreign State, Federal Police, Association, Pension Funds, Hospitals, Nurses, Farms and Nurses, National Institutes for Education, National Education and College Education, to provide information electronically or otherwise to the extent necessary for the implementation of these laws. It's all underneath. I say, where's the personal protection? In the same way, insurance and health insurance agencies should exchange food information. Another amazing thing about these matters is the State Insurance Agency and the Perconte Protection Against It, i.e. The legal rights of the domestics. Individuals who do not live together according to Article 7. Social security laws, the same rights, and the same obligations as those of married couples under law. The financial resources of the local population are on the 16th floor. and a joint law home or living by someone else and unambiguous data for more than one year should be balanced with the registration of living together into a national registry. It is strange that at one time, a insurance agency was charged with a Pernon protection for a so - called reformer's button. A person's protection said that this reform button was illegal, an insurance agency could not install the corresponding buttons without permission of the Perone Protection. But the insurance department has recently installed the button. In connection with the button previously mentioned that by 2015, information was sent to the insurance agency through a so-called indication button placed on the website of the agency so that anyone in a shelter would provide information and a name-named person. Their success, whether they had provided the correct information about their status, was further investigated. In 2015, personality protection ruled that this information was a violation of the personal protection law. TR then removed the button, but now it's up again. As noted, the total number of indications received at that time was uncertain, but 521 clients were said to have been investigated. In a third of the 172 cases or similar cases, there was something behind, but there was no proof of two thirds of them in the study, 349 overall clients. A insurance agency adds that this does not mean that the indication was not valid. But who were these people who were being tried to get along with this blessed button? Yes, it was trying to find a married couple who were separating from the table in order to do better financially, to manage themselves. We must ask ourselves, " Why in the face of Persian protection did this? ' Case on indication button on National Insurance Institute, No. 2017/1003, conducted at a Persian Protection Meeting on March 8, 2018. The decision was given there by the president's permission: The personal information produced by the indication button on the U.S. National Insurance Institute website is in line with the law of No. 77/2000, about personal protection and the treatment of personal data.◯ During that time, Persian protection was in operation of these new laws. For some reason, she seems to overlook it. It is interesting to consider a Persian protection decision. With the permission of a president, I intend to quote the decision directly, as follows: ▪[L] a gentleman at the National Institute of Environment, answered with a letter, day. December 1st, 2017, for complaint. In part, it seems that the TR made it clear that it would not be allowed to install a reference button again without first being protected by Peritoneal protection. The TR argument also protests that the progress of personal information, included in the indication button, is required to meet the legal obligations of the Agency. They also say that there is no evidence that industry can be viewed as a servant of the public economy. Let us see why a button is being installed to inform us that they are traitors. We're talking sick people. We're talking about kids. We're talking about the older citizens of this country. We're talking about these people, so they need to put on a betrayal button because of them. I say, if it's legal, if it's possible, we'll have to go put on these kind of buttons at the Bureau, the government, and here at the General, anonymous buttons, or even anonymously. True, it is supposed to be a name. As far as I can see, you have to enter the sender's name and email address. What name could one put in there? No, GróaLeiti no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Where did she send it from? It can be from any email address in itself. All you have to do is get into some computer that someone else even has. You can get into computers all over the place. If so, you can send comments to the government's insurance agency that someone is betraying compensation or something and that sign: The Gróa á Leiti. This is true according to Persian protection. I'd like to point out something else about the new protection laws. It's funny that the old law - I got into it myself, when the old law was in effect, that my medical record was stolen. I'm just saying, steal. I won the case in Peritoneal Protection. I won the case in the district. But the Supreme Court says: "It's okay this time. That's where I'm talking about a doctor. He's leaving the Power House right into the orthopaedic department of the Land Hospital, where I had an operation. He entered his code data. He says when he's pointed out this - because I'm in the conclusion of an insurance company that it was on the basis of surgery, and like other people I'd never seen and didn't know about. I pointed to it, but he said that he never entered the medical file. The hospital says: "No, he never went in. But when the IP talk came up, it was said, "Yes, he checked in." Personal protection says he went in. But the hospital says, "We have no responsibility. " It's the doctor's issue. The case is set. My signature was nowhere. But think. In order for me to receive this information, he could obtain one, two, and three, I had to attend a land hospital. I had to submit my ID, have a written request to get those files. I had to wait a week. Then I had to come back, show my identity card again, sign it for the data. That was my way of getting these data. But the person could get them just because he got into the computer, had access to it. The strangest thing in this context is that there was wrong information in those data that he said was there. It was just wrong. How in the world are we to trust personal protection or personal protection if the patient file cannot even be protected, since the owner of this medical record has not approved at all, and the person in the record had never asked for it? We must make the minimum requirement that someone sees to it, i.e. The lawgiver, we, that these things don't happen. There's something else in this new protection law that I find very strange, that they're supposed to make a personal guardian and a witness. I say for my part that when I was trying to read through -- there seems to be no rule on this, nobody knows who to pay for it. You can do this, you can do that. How many are there? How much is this? How do you do this? What is required for these Witnesses to be educated? What are they to witness? How on earth are we going to write this up? It's like I'd give an open vixil for something I don't know what to use in. This personal protection law needs a lot more discussion than we should get or what is expected to happen. I would say that it would be best to postpone the implementation of these laws, accept them completely under observation, and ensure that people who are in the pensions, people who are on insurance, persons on medical records, is fighting insurance companies, that it is minimal that these individuals can protect themselves, and that personal data in medical records will not be used against them in order to obtain legal benefits.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-64.u4	A respectable president. Thank you for speaking anyway. A senator and his list earlier, as well as the example of a husband and wife who are getting divorced and who may be affected. It is remarkable that the arrangement is such that when people are registered in the same legal home for a certain period of time, they are suddenly registered to live together, as mentioned earlier. I'd like to know if there's anything I can do. A senator knows if it applies only to people of the opposite sex or how they are. I wanted to call attention to two teams. in which there are general protocols for the processing of personal information. It says in Mt 3 that agriculture is necessary to satisfy legal requirements that depend on responsibilities. Step 5 says that processing is required for work done in the interests of public interest or in the application of public authority recommended by the responsible responsible responsible. It sounds like it's a very broad issue to work with personal information if the law is accepted, such as the social security Act. A senator referred to him. I can't see, in the 42 law-changes that follow the bill, that something is actually changed into social security laws in this respect except that the word "proven" is used instead of "supervised" to be used, in turn, a very common change in this. It seems that there is really no change in the project as a matter of course. A senator went over here and I think it's very necessary to include in the discussion of these laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-64.u5	A respectable president. I thank the senator for these questions. He's totally right. I can't find it either. Therefore I am very afraid of this law. It doesn't seem to change anything, as the text says. And this vast source of authority that exists plus what is said about a marriage mate. Word is, by permission of the president: ▪ Unmarried individuals share the same rights, the same responsibilities as those of married couples under these laws. A common legal home or living by other unconvinced data for more than one year should be put in line with registration. Now there are a lot of young people, maybe four, five, renting one apartment. If they've been there for a year, and maybe two, three, in terms of an insurance company, been together for a year, have they become married? Should taxing be done to the individual without asking them? According to this, it can be done. I'm just saying, where is the personal protection of these individuals? How should they defend themselves against this system? I'm saying for my part that the government's shelters in this regard are being dealt with by unbelievably badly. At any rate, we have to have a little respect for the fact that we are dealing with sick people, old people, and children's families. It must be the last thing to look at them as a traitor or something worse.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-64.u6	A respectable president. I don't see a minister in the area. He might be interested in finding out. Only connected, I recently heard of a case in an apartment building. People can register in apartments without separately registering. So you can be registered to an apartment house without anyone knowing that you live there. The residents of the apartment building receive mail and ask: "Where does this live? There are also cases where dozens of employees are registered to someone's legal home, where there are employees' rent or something like that, although obviously the house cannot carry that number of people. You wonder if they will suddenly become taxed. Maybe? They've been registered to the same address, it can be a bit complicated with an apartment building. I'm not quite as afraid of this part of the bill, in this respect, because the water is more focused on the need for a resolution and enlightenment, etc. But the law that I referred to here, and that which was. A senator talks about the Social Security Act, precisely indicating that this does not apply to governments or institutions in some way; it targets companies. I'd love it if the Minister of Justice could come and explain this to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-64.u7	A respectable president. I appreciate those questions. I am deeply concerned about this fraud button at the government insurance agency that I believe is contrary to the personal protection laws; it's supposed to be the way the law says it can't be done. Like I say, it's possible for everyone or no one. I always find it very strange when the worst are put under this hat, but everyone else, for example, tax fraud and other things, are not put under the same hat and not looking at them in the same way, not suspicious of fraud. Because we're talking about sick, injured people. It hurts a lot to get involved - I speak out of experience - to read files about himself and not even to be aware of them. Don't know if it's the right thing you're reading, or if it's wrong. Then you have to go out to see if it's wrong, and then you find out it's wrong; you prove it's wrong, and you do everything right. But somehow things end with the statement that the Supreme Court is right, which was wrong. For what purpose, if we start thinking, was this done? Yes, it was for one purpose, that was a gross violation of me, in terms of personal protection and privacy, by going to the medical records, to have legal improvements, due to damage to a trusted car - double-trusted car, both driver's insurance and public guarantee - because that was the point. This scares me. I can't see in this bill that it's been changed or done to fix it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-64.u8	Madam President. Here we will discuss a very important subject, a bill for a law related to a system of induction that centers on the fundamental rights and freedom of the individual, especially on the protection of personal information. That's amazingly good to know that this matter is on schedule, i.e. As regards the individual's rights, the fact that we are being properly informed about ourselves. That's what it's all about. It is, of course, a matter of harmony in monitoring and other factors. At the moment, however, we are discussing a bill that is actually linked to it. In some respects it is being used to make room for regulations. That's where I have questions and maybe comments. Of course, this cannot be discussed without discussing the matter. The case came all too late, much later than it was announced, despite the many calls and despite the fact that such a matter was in the water for a very long time, some years, even two years, and had been discussed here. I must make serious comments to that. In view of the fact that we have to rely heavily on reporters who are left in the council, after going over and using them, I understand, ten days. Then there's not much left of the council. Commenting on this issue, March 19, 2018, the European Union is making strong comments on this part of the matter. Instead of speaking of the benefits of the Regulation - which I think may be able to cross well, because it is like so many other things coming from the European Union an amazing improvement for individuals, and if we refuse to accept it, it will have very broad consequences, both for the other EEA countries and as well as for Iceland and the other companies that are on the market - I want to focus on the bill for discussion and to direct my sight to the flexibility, the scope of which Ministers and take advantage of turning away from the Regulation. There are cases for the sake of time, for how long to store data after death. But what I especially want as an ex-communicator to direct my eyes to be a administrative fine or authority to those who are placed on public companies, some of whom have no choice to collect information, but is part of their legal obligation. We live in a small country, and unfortunately we still live in an environment where communities are far too sick and their institutions are even weaker. The legal requirements given are far too high. We're talking about $2.4 billion. A government ticket to a community. There is no need to comment on the consequences of a community in the country. The European Union asks what the evidence is for a longer implementation than in many other countries, beyond the law's requirement for us, and warns against it. I also ask, why is this? In Austria, e.g. has fallen completely from having such a fine in a public company, and in Sweden and Denmark it is much lower. I find this to be a charge, especially in view of the fact that so - called close - knit services are being carried on by rural communities. We have seen a certain tendency that projects have been moved from state to country. In many ways, this is a wonderful thing because experience has shown us that a ministry rendered near - society is more likely to be better. It may be possible to be more flexible and adapt the ministry more closely to local circumstances. The back side of the coin is that funding has not been followed by the project being transferred to the rural communities. It's an assignment I think that is one of the most urgent during the council, to revise income between state and country, another debate. But people must understand that it is a complicated matter for them to resist them in a short period of time. Therefore, I would have thought that if men at any other level want to do so, they must be a moderate measure of guilt. This should have been adjusted to the level, and the community might not have been upset by business. Let us not forget that if a community were to fall into the horrible situation of violating these laws, it would be impossible to do anything but resort to tax returns. And what are the taxpayers doing? They don't go in on funds, that's for sure, because every community pays a lot of its money, as I said before, for the service the government has cut them off to do. It can be aging services, matters that are disabled, and so forth. The fact remains that a community in such crisis needs to be used by their limited taxpayers, who are expected to run to the base service and, in part, a legal foundation service, to pay government guilty. So I would have felt that it was more correct to go somewhere else. We also know that the implementation of the new personal protection laws by rural society has massive costs. Their financial situation will be affected. It is remarkable that when the law is passed at the General Assembly, it is put upon them for financial reasons, except when they focus on third parties, such as rural society, it seems that it doesn't matter. I would have felt that a report or other promise that because it is burdensome, the State will meet it in some way. Then there is the other side of the coin, that Perconte protection, which is assigned to observe this and highlight government fines, is not equipped to handle it with the amount of men it controls. This was shown in a talk by a young man. paritaprevir Vala Vögla Helgadóttir said that the leader of the Persian Guardian had spoken of a four - fold price of human resources to make sure that they could take care of that. That brings us to another item, we are really a spiritist that will end up in an empty disaster, i.e. We are always making new laws with good intentions, but in reality we are not looking for a cost. It seems that the government does not care about it at any time during the cost. This is absolutely unacceptable, especially in view of the position I was talking about earlier, where a growing proportion of the ministry is being run by rural communities. I would have felt that it would be minimal for a Minister to take into account in any way the indications that come from the Union of Iceland, which appear in the company of each member, no matter whether one hundred or a thousand people or several hundred - which, of course, is an independent problem - but it's not done in it. You cannot argue that the comments were late because, as I said before, they are dated in mid - March. As important as I feel it is to pay for the Senate resolution and the induction of perhaps the most important rules we've seen in the council for a very long time and to have personal freedom, individual freedom and protection against a completely new reality, I don't necessarily see the need for us to trash against this bill, at all possible means that we're not involved in the taxation of the Regulation. I'd rather have thought we should use the flexibility we have without yielding when it comes to the purpose of the Regulation and the intention of defending our personal and personal life. Instead, we should adapt our regulations to Iceland's smallness and to the special circumstances we live in. I want a minister to come here and to explain, sometime in this discussion, what is the purpose of holding up such rigid and burdensome government laws on rural society, and answering whether it is not an option to go the way of Austria or, if one feels it is absolutely necessary to hold this guilt on public parties, to tailor it rather to what we see in Sweden and Denmark. The minister may not be able to attend, but she is likely to listen to the recordings, either at the Board of Directors or later this evening or tomorrow, and this message is presented to her. There is no way that a second government level in the country, which may eventually be the largest, will be left behind without an answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-64.u9	A respectable president. When you read with other members of the council, you see a number of things in your review. In the 5th. is said to be, similar to what happened. The senator began his speech, that the regulations of the Regulation go beyond the regulations of the law itself. The special requirements of other laws set out within the scope of this Regulation also exceed the requirements of this law. For me, this makes a new layer of complications that need to be examined for these laws. What effect does the Regulation have on all these laws and situations that can arise in the community regarding personal protection leaks, etc.? How is the combination of all of this and how important for us to accept exactly this bill if the Regulation was just adopted? I think we need a little explanation for this at the Ministry of Justice. I don't understand why she's not in the room or in the side room to explain it a little bit more. We are actually dealing with three things, the Regulation, the future law that replaces and alters many other laws, and a special law that is not being carried out. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristjánsson pointed out, e.g. Social Security Act, which uses a lot of personal information. How does that change when the existing protection laws are pulled away and this one is replaced? There is a new Regulation that affects all of this. I wanted to know what. A senator is as confused as I am in this grass that is being made right at the end of the Senate. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-64.u10	Madam President. Yes, I am. Of course, a person tries to read through the bill and realizes the good intentions and how he can serve us in a modern society. But I don't necessarily get the whole deal. I guess just what. A senator who is a mathematician, well, at least A computer scientist but sharper on pattern should be better at realizing it. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] I don't see it. That's why I asked at the outset if it wasn't simpler for us to just take the entry rule. Then we might talk about the other, but there may be some serious problems. No, I haven't overlooked the matter completely, how the interaction of these things is, and it's also gravely serious. One is to settle into these two issues, the bill and the Senate arrangement, and the other to identify the whole interaction as it is in one week. I think it's dangerous and pathetic in as important as it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-64.u11	A respectable president. That was exactly what I wanted to say about the simplicity of the case. Senator opposed. Like what? A senator pointed out that this is a huge matter. Although I am very trained in analysing systems from computer science - I am not a mathematician - I simply take time to trace through all the threads of the system and how they play together, much less the other specials that are already in force and are in the use of personal protection. When the council enters Congress, we go through the discussion, get the opinion of the committee experts, try to understand the matter, and finally make it 2nd. and try to explain the matter to people in human language with our conscience in this regard. We simply see this clearly in 1st. trying to scratch us through this and to use the short time left of the council to squeeze the case together in order to explain to the people how this is going to work. That's a hell of a job. This is far more complicated than a financial plan. It is simple in comparison.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-64.u12	Madam President. What makes it so complicated is this insanely altered world in which we live. The character protection principle and the legislation are an attempt to tailor our lives to that reality and protect us. Some intelligent person once said that the moral sense is always two, three steps behind the technology. I think it's quite possible to accept that there's a grain of truth in it when you look at the story, let alone when we live in a technology age where changes grow with power speed. I'm very smart that my moral sense doesn't. In such a situation, I think it is even more important that every step we take and every attempt we have to deal with this new reality and the threats that threaten us as individuals and that we get a chance to understand it and that the public will eventually understand it. However, it may well be that our system works to allow us to assume that we are in general a time label and that we have nothing to do with it because people living in councils have read it and gone over, that our treatment of the matter is virtual, but we are also in a serious crisis. I think we should give ourselves the time we need to understand and settle this case because I have no reason to believe that there is some ugly intentions behind it. However, we need to understand this, especially the anomalies of the Regulation. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-64.u13	Madam President. In many ways, I agree with it. paritaprevir The subject was on Logi Einarsson. There are many concerns. I am deeply concerned with how this adjustment was conducted, and it is not completely clear to me where the line between the GDPR principle and this bill we address is, whether or not the gold coated that has been added to the Ministry by their heads or what. But since then. A senator spoke a lot about the communities, and it seems that I had an infinite amount of time then, I wondered: There are apparently many people who are concerned about my rural society. Hv. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's children spoke earlier about similar things. But personally I'm much more concerned about other databases, e.g. Enterprises and institutions other than rural society, to form the thousands of databases throughout the country that could possibly fall under GDPR - or not - because of what is 1. Section 4. The bill is hairy. I wonder what. A senator thought about how the transition will take place, for example. Books and partnerships with seminars and other items that could be collected to some extent - or not. Automaticly, there's a lot of space left to be interpreted into this set, and I don't know where to find the exact boundary in case of an automatic scan of a library map and similar. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-64.u14	Madam President. I'm not going to belittle it because there is good reason to worry about how this affects a private business and a community and all of that. Of course, that's an independent problem. However, the reason why I record things about government agencies such as the government is that they are members who even have legal obligations to collect information, which all companies do not necessarily have. And because of the involvement of state and rural society when it comes to business. In other words, I use this speech time to criticize the fact that we can make huge decisions involving another administrative level, which is very taxing and costly, a level of government that has no equal to our ability to resort to increased revenues without wearing it out. However, I have full compassion for the viewpoint shown in the report, that it is reasonable to be equal between public and private parties. I completely agree with that. But most of all, it's this team of ours, like when we all joined our ranks when we had legalized NPA. Although it was a great matter and a very large moment in this room, we forgot to resolve minor issues, such as how to finance it. This case may be of the same hurt.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-64.u15	Madam President. It is absolutely true that there is nothing new that the government forgets to finance such massive expenses as the NAPA was on the part of the countryside, and it is the same with this case because it does not seem to be expected to be funded for the rural community. That's certainly a concern. My colleagues recognized that there has been a change in society that people may be less able to use a library map and a greater exercise card, but it is something that worries me deeply, the automatic on which I feel myself. Costco cards and whatever. There is so much limit in all of this, whether it is useful to societies or to others. In 1st. Section 4. The bill makes it fairly unclear that the regulations and regulations apply to the processing of personal information, which is automatically or in whole, and the processing of methods other than automation of personal information that are or should become part of a file. I've been working in a database since I was 12 years old, on breaks, and I'm not sure that I understand exactly how this works. What I think we need to do and ask why. A senator: Can we adapt this wording? Can we be more specific about the limits? I don't know exactly how we can do that, but there is, I think, a given opportunity to be clear. I think lack of logic in this bill can be very damaging to institutions, rurals, companies and individuals.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-64.u16	Madam President. Yes, absolutely, both if the wording was clearer and perhaps it would also help you to get more than twelve hours to read it so that you could understand it. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] In case of a moment. A senator does not see the expression related to his field of expertise, but there is little hope that I will. In the end, however, it's a big deal, and I think that Iceland and I have shown too much indiscretion to personal information. I remember 20 years ago when I started dating my wife and visited her in Reykjavík. We decided to stay calm one night and rent a video. When I'm gonna pay her, the guy on the box says, "You've seen her before." I had never taken a tape anywhere else but in Akureyri. We take information, our social security use, and so forth. I think it's a good thing, and, of course, we should go over it well because it's about our freedom, our privacy and our most precious possessions. However, during a few days of scraping the case with any additional or other items that are first clearly unclear in the hall which is and which is not. But, yes, I think it applies in general to the lyrics that he may bring to the ordinary and better language.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-64.u17	A respectable president. I apologize for not quite prepared when the president called me in for a speech chair, but this is sometimes the case. In the beginning, I'd like to discuss just the work and the presentation of this case. I'm not gonna ask you to do that, chief. Mr President, the Minister will be in charge of this speech, it will not be very good, but I think it's polite for the Minister to sit under the council's speeches. I'm not going to ask her to be called to the hall, but I'd like to state that it was polite of the minister - and there's the man in the side room.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-64.u18	I'm gonna sit here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-64.u19	Good job, chief. Minister. Here we discuss a large issue, but no doubt they have been criticized as to how they reach the council during the last half of the Senate work. This is very special in view of the fact that it has been working for a very long time. Then you wonder, " Is this because the government groups were having trouble getting together on the point or if the work was just so much at the end of the Ministry that it took a long time? ' It is quite unusual that at the meeting meeting, two issues are linked to this discussion, i.e. One, the bill from the highest. Ministers and, however, proposals for Congress as supreme. Secretary of state must move. Because this is a huge and big matter, I expect the secretary of state to attend and deliver the matter in an effort tonight. I wondered if it was more true that the synopsis was ahead of the bill because the bill is based on a Senate resolution, or as the introduction of the proposal, by permission of the President: ▪ The Council concludes to allow the government to confirm for Iceland the proposed decision made by the joint EEA on the change...•and etc. If we accept this, we can accept the law, continue it. I think it's a little strange. But a little to the bill. I must admit that at the short time I've had to go through this great document I've only managed to scan it. I have not had a chance to look for an opinion or to consult with certain questions that have naturally come up, which is a big deal. I can agree with those members of the council who have spoken that it is important that the legal rights that I think will be done. However, I wondered if the Ministry or Minister will walk here perhaps. It is relatively small in nature regarding the induction of certain changes in the law. I'm not gonna say it, but I'm just wondering. I haven't, as I said before, been able to consult on it. On page 18. 25 will begin the report, and it will say, with permission of the president: Nonetheless, it is advisable in the Regulation that in several aspects a Member State can implement individual regulations and have the means to set rules or to compromise the regulations of the Regulation. Now I wonder if in this great document there is some sort of a summary of it, whether it can be reached in one place whether Iceland in this case is disintegrating or in some other way leading it, possibly in a more thorough manner, than the Regulation assumes. So I think it's important, chief. Mr. President, to request a letter to the minister that the Council receive a summary of where and how to disseminate from the Regulation or to expand beyond what is required in direct introduction, etc. I think it's important to understand the matter, because it's not that easy to do so, at least not for us who have not studied the case. However, I have observed the discussions, and I have been a member of the Parliament, a member of Congress, who has an enormous knowledge of the matter. I have, like some others, reflected on this guilt or guilt, and I pondered over them. You can read a text with glasses that makes you very proud to be able to finally introduce real guilty pay. This is an enormous amount of money, and if I understand the right thing, it is not to make a big difference between whether it is an individual or a legal entity, but it is stated that it is not to take into account the development of pay and the financial environment that these may be. A comment has been made by rural society, where they are concerned about the vague part of the bill that will hurt even the rest of the bill. to fines and their roles. It is said that there are hundreds of millions of games at a minimum, which may be normal because they are new. It's certainly shown in the bill, in my report, that little experience is of the size, so it's a little blind to the ocean with it. That may be why the numbers are so high that you pause at them. Clearly, the cost of rural society will be considerable. However, it is not to see that professional life, as it is often called, has made special comments at the expense and, in effect, believe that the bill is an improvement. I won't slow it down. It is interesting, though, to see that our professional life has not been examined as to whether this is related to the expense of our community. Maybe it's their idea that it's not. We're talking about a personal guardian here. I have to admit that I was in the process of reading about it all, but I'm not quite there yet to understand if it was a preordained idea that such personal protective agents would exist when this journey was started, i.e. On the part of the European Union, or whether this came to an end because some needed to be monitored. But it's what it is. There's one thing I'd like to ask the highest. A minister that if she is able to answer that question at the end of the discussion. Personal protection determines fines, determines day - to - day fines. If I haven't missed it in the text, it seems to me that there is a definitive decision that Persian protection will determine them, of course, according to the size of the alleged offense and the like. What I'm wondering is, is there any judge who can shoot a Persian protection decision? It may be that it's the text and I've missed it, but I wondered if it's normal, or if you want it to be, so that if Perone Protection decides to contribute 500 million. K. A fine for a community or a lawyer, that's what it says. Maybe it can be brought to the courts, I don't know it, can't remember what it's said, but it's probably that way. We have every reason to believe that decisions like this can be made to a ruling committee. I wondered if there's anything that might be appropriate here, but all of this is speculation. Another point in the report, I think it's about 45. par., is about penalties. Thus, in place of penalties, government fines and criminal responsibility by law decommissioned, are meant to be done by private members or public members. This will be considered in the 46th chapter. This is a detailed explanation, which, of course, is very good. About 46th. discusses these amounts, which may include between 100,000 and 1.2 billion dollars in the lower category. And in the higher ranks, if I have achieved it all, the fine may be up to 2 billion. Everyone sees that there are very few who can handle such guilt. I'm no expert on the amount of money you want, but it's really high. I had wondered if such a decision could be made for any decision or such. A respectable president. This is an enormous issue. I think most people would agree that there's probably some improvement for us individuals, for us who are concerned about how our personal information is handled. The rules and the rules are being explained and pressed. I don't know how that information is used, little knowledge at least, but I realize that personal information can be abused, like so many other things, and no doubt it is. We have, for example, seen and heard examples of foreign parties, such as the company mentioned in the hall today, Cambrigde Analytica, if I recall correctly, and there are no doubt there are others. Therefore, there is reason to rejoice that companies or others who do not know how to use this information will be unusual. One of the bill's data is the opinion of Professor Stefánsson Már's 14th December 2017, on how this can be introduced from the Icelandic constitution, the Icelandic jurist, etc. It identifies ways that we can avoid going too close to a higher authority, which is forbidden to us according to our constitution. It is very important that the committee in question, prospective General and Education Committee, take a good time to review whether this is being done in the bill enough to know how all of this is going to work out. A respectable president. As I said at the beginning of my speech, this case will come into play in the final years of the council. It's a big deal. How sad it was to observe today's discussion, especially in the management department, when we were under criticism of the government! This was not a major issue, especially to me, but it should have been done by members of the jury and members of the Independence Party. This gives us reason to consider whether it is a general view that such a matter is acceptable, so big, into the council, and that it is expected to receive special quick treatment. Maybe it's because we're all doing it, I think, I'm aware that this case has to be completed in the summer so that everyone is sitting at the same table in the European Economic Area, but of course you have to be careful with the legal process and the problem. A convention needs to take the time to review the matter and cannot allow such dates to follow. I'm sorry, then, it's going to have to be a problem and a fuckup, but it's not for the General, it's for the judges who are responsible if the matter gets delayed in any way. I would like to encourage the committee, which will take the matter into consideration to take the time to review it and ask for references, problems to action, and to seek the opinion of the experts that it is necessary to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-64.u20	Madam President. I'll take under the most direct point of my life. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson came with us. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he realizes what he said about the member states, how much space they have. This is very interesting and really a key to everything. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson is talking about it because it is our job here to know where this space is, where it lies. Hence, our arrival must be considered of great importance and need to give time to it. You know, about the fines and whatnot. A senator mentioned this as a very important matter. There are enormous sums of money that can touch a company in such a way as to decide whether it is possible to continue running the company or not. I'm asking why. A senator knows whether an Icelandic company is prepared or not. At the council, we had this bill in our shoe last night so I'd like to know if an Icelandic company knew anything about it before.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-64.u21	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the questions. I have to admit that I don't fully understand the extent to which this bill was conducted, but it is clear that at least The Icelandic community and the job, as it is called, came up with something to do, got to look at it and look at it. However, I do not realize how thorough it was, and I think it is important that the committee calls for more careful discussions and opinions from them on the subject. Like I said repeatedly in my speech earlier, I haven't been able to read this completely into my basement, but as I understand the matter, there is a considerable scope for the fines. That's why I think it's important to know why these amounts are or where they go, whether they can be done differently, etc. So I think it is also important to get the summary I mentioned in a talk about where you might be adding or compromising principles or the text in the European Union Regulation, where you go further, where you go for a little while, if that is anywhere. I think we'll have to make a list. It is important that the scope of the law be expressed by humans. We know in very many cases that there is a measure of space when we bring in regulations from the European Union, but unfortunately, sometimes you feel that we are going quite far into the induction process.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-64.u22	Madam President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson for a good answer. I agree with the fines and how much space there is. This is of prime importance in Iceland because we're smaller people than others in which these regulations are being adopted. Therefore, it is of prime importance what the fines are for a small company, as most companies in this country are.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-64.u23	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator of those words. It's not only the companies you worry about, because these can, if you do the most basic things in it all, can be very difficult for many rural communities. Clearly, if something considered serious happens in my rural society, whether by accident or by nature, and it is decided to fine the local community of about 1.5 billion or something like that, you can close the shop. It may well be that it just draws up some crazy picture and can be shut down. It is important to explain how such fines are to be handled. I don't think that's going well enough on the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-64.u24	Madam President. There was a lot of interesting talk. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi, son of Sveinsson, especially concerned about the 45th floor. Unable to open mail with status 48. gr. that discuss the borders of punishment. I wonder what. A senator fears that with such a large sword frame, a moderate order is threatened. I know a little about it when this case was developing in Brussels and I know a lot of the people who searched through the European Parliament and know that there was something there in the way that the penalty was done, and especially fines were made so wide to handle huge business even with a hundred billion dollars of income. who are naturally not known here in Iceland. On the other hand, the thought is, of course, that it should be used within the normal range. There have been cases in Iceland, such as when Vodafone's text database leaked about the year, where it should have been according to this bill to use very high fines. However, is it not likely that Persian protection or the government that has this legal authority would moderately use fines and follow a moderate rule, because there is a specific foundation prince in our entire law?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-64.u25	A respectable president. I thank the senator for these questions and speculations. I could only stop at the line of punishment in this quick passage in another convenient language. I do not trust to answer whether it is likely or unlikely whether there is a Supreme Protection - and now I want to state it, a respectable president, that it is far from my doubts about the integrity, knowledge, or ability of the staff of the ideal agency to make such decisions. We just need to be careful of all the legal effects in this, because people need to be able to carry a hand for their heads. I can't say if it's likely or unlikely or how these sources will be applied. However, as the text shows in some part of this vast document, it is assumed that such decisions could be initiated. There is talk of pay development in the country and of that sort and so forth. However, it is also possible to wonder whether it is simply more reasonable when it comes to legislators'position in some way, i.e. It is simply set in motion to pass fines, to make the huge ones, and to know if they become fragile, that's exactly what that means. There's one way. But I'm only a little worried that those who consider Peritoneal Protection, in this case, break themselves by fines or anything like that, have to consult courts to determine it - I wondered whether everyone will handle such a trip to the courts and just out of expenses.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-64.u26	Madam President. In many ways I agree. There is always the danger of being used when the penalty is large. If I don't forget, there's a personal protection rule that's exactly what I'm talking about - whether it was 1% of the year's overall success, I don't quite remember. But whether it is reflected in the bill is a good question. I don't know why. A senator has been able to read the bill in just a brief period of time. I haven't made it myself. I don't think I've managed to slide over it in a hurry. But I fear anyway, and it would be interesting to hear the point. A senator's fear of serving, that it will discourage innovation, discourage expansion of service forms, that this will simply reduce our prospects for future development. Naturally, the possibility that I always believe was the basic sense in the Regulation is that it will be instead of practicing what Martin Fowler called the "Funnsparsamat" in German, with the permission of a president who might be called countercanny or counterweight, which is about to keep to a complete minimum the data collected about persons in the course of normal treatment, thereby limiting the very significant risk of accidental leakage, handwork or burglary, or what could be very damaging. But I think this fear of going out and offering a service on another level could be quite real.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-64.u27	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. That's a very interesting question. Of course, if a person is afraid to have a certain development or innovation because of these enormous guilt cases, it is bad, since the innovation we need is being reduced. The need to enter the new century, the fourth industrial revolution, and all that goes into all good speeches in the government these days is often talked about. Of course, this does not work to dissuade them. In turn, a person developing something may seek counseling and get help, possibly from the authorities, perhaps Peritoneal protection, and may turn to them, but it is likely to cost money. The question is, Is this an increase in the cost of evolution and the cost of those who are trying to do something out of the information that I don't think anyone is thinking that being new is bad, if it's done in the right way? At the very least, I would not want to go back some decades, since information that humans can't take advantage of could be collected. But this is hard to deal with. It's bullshit. It would not have occurred to me now, but it certainly is of great interest that men or businesses and organizations simply start to hold on when it comes to collecting data or processing data, fearing to land somewhere in the field, as it were. You need to find an average road. It's just that way. I certainly hope that the committee will handle the matter well and try to find solutions to these questions. At least it is important to find answers to them. If there is some uncertainty about all of this, we simply need to consider whether a change of the bill needs to be made by postponing or cutting or doing something like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-64.u28	Madam President. From my answers so far, it's probably clear that I could talk about this for a very long time because I've been tracking it from the very beginning of the European Union. I started discussing it with people there, probably in the latter part of 2012, and that's a little more vivid to the problem we face today. That bill came up last night. We have known that this was coming since 2012 and ever since 2016's European rights has been widely understood as one of the biggest issues in the years to come. This is an enormous step for personal protection, possibly the most progressive step for a very long time, but it has been a marvelous step on the part of the government in the handling of the case, and the government has drawn its feet into it. It has, for example. Many times today are cited in notes that were addressed on 26 pages, but the bill that we now have has 147 pages of 90 pages of most of which are new. In my opinion, it is an amazing disrespect for the council that we are being made to handle the case in a dog's pocket. The pills are harmful. It doesn't matter who they are to blame because the companies in the country need this very quickly. The final words of the Ministry of Justice that day about a new personal protection law from May 25 were not just wrong, they were very irresponsible. It says, by permission of the president: Therefore, the situation between the implementation of the GDPR protocol in the EU and its uptake in the EEA Convention should not cause interference in the use of personal information on the internal market of the EEA. This is not true because in the middle of the situation, any Icelandic company that performs a GDPR service needs to answer no when asked if GDPR has been legalized here. It'll cost them business. I don't know if it already did, but it must come to do it. I know there are companies in a town that have worked hard to prepare for GDPR and are surprised that they are ready, but they are not law enforcement. But enough for now. The subject of the bill is incredibly broad, and as I said earlier, I haven't been able to read the whole bill. I was able to screen part of it, but I'm not sure I understand it all, just because so many things are unclear. One particular thing that I had problems with is 1. 4. g., she stopped me for a few hours in thought because there's so much that's so extraordinary in that particular paragraph that's gray and might cause problems. I may be able to read everything for the 2nd. but now it is good to review GDPR, its benefits, its flaws, and the dangers we need to be aware of when it comes to further treatment. The first item, in the column Benefits, is that much effort has been made in companies to find an economic basis for their activities online. It has often done very special business models, including. has become an enormous value industry, which is simply about spying on people in some way and using information collected for various purposes, either to market or to sell information for them for campaigns and other purposes, such as Cambridge Analytica and, in fact, other companies. As early as the first few days after GDPR took place in the European Union, companies who have their income source started spying on the general public and marketing them for backlock information. A number of people have certainly misjudged GDPR and taken action that was unnecessary, and some have interpreted GDPR in favor of them and have forced their users to accept continued spys, yet others have decided to ignore GDPR deliberately. One example that struck me a little bit was that the Washington Post has decided to offer three subscription routes, one of which is a free subscription that continues to spy on people, another is a subscription for which people are paying for it, but the second option is the most expensive and the European Union is released, and that's where all the spies are released. It's not in the spirit of GDPR, and it gets out of hand because if the only objective of GDPR was to offer new ways for people to pay more for not being espionaged, I think it could have been a much shorter bill. Perhaps it is proper to report that the 171 introduction line in the Regulation itself explains that it is not necessary to seek consent again when there is agreement for some kind of service, provided that consent is within both GDPR limits and set clearly. Since the Regulation went into effect last Friday, we have seen the effects begin to form. It's, for example. has filed a complaint on several servers, including Facebook, there are $3.9 billion euro budget, and Google, with requirements of 3.7 billion euro. There are natural people in some way trying to abuse the situation, and perhaps there is also a certain lack of understanding, but in some respects it is simply being used to punish companies who have been involved in such intelligence for a very long time and actually sold information in one form or another. Even if it was a big deal against companies, I would put it in the positive column. There are so many things based on moving the power to the users on how they operate their Internet use, control their person, as if it were really happening to companies and others on the Internet. The circumstances of individuals are very complex. Enterprises carry additional responsibilities to inform users about what information is intended for, even without the individual looking specifically for it, and people have the right to a copy in a general format of all the company's personal information about them. These are things that take considerable effort but that are something people have been asking for many years. So far, the only option has, like, one. in the case of some social media, e-mails were being sent and requested to get a uploaded CD with a copy of all the personal information. It is good that a person's offense is not simply a mistake in handling but that an enterprise must prove that the treatment is legal at all times. The load of evidence is transferred to the person who handles the personal information, with no particular appearance or search for justice from anyone. There is no longer any way to hide behind any kind of agreement for distribution or consent, as is very often done in the committees of the Generals, where the presidents claim to agree that the matter is agreed and not discussed further. According to this, people have a clear right to know exactly what to do with the information, what they are about to agree with, and approval must be completely clear to them. But there are faults in GDPR. Even though Piratars generally agree with their goals, there are problems. This may primarily be an unpredictable effect. Hv. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson spoke earlier about the risk of this detracting innovation, renting people to offer new types of service, and so on. This is going to be a big deal for the business of many companies who need a lot of adaptation, especially in information security, which is, in fact, a long-term improvement, but also in general how we save data and how much data we're collecting. On account of the government's willingness, Icelandic companies generally have less lead-in periods than companies in Europe, where precise legal arrangements were even completed a year before all of them went into force on May 25. The export in Iceland was starting to appear right now, and this may take effect after two to three months, depending on when the joint EEA committee will be completed. At the same time, official coverts from Peritoneal Protection, which were excellent, have presented extremely limited explanations from experts, institutions, the state of state, on how to adapt to companies. Then there is a more complex effect. I mentioned earlier in a conversation with what? paritaprevir Logi Einarsson to Costco, gymnasiums, and similar phenomena, which somehow collect data in some way semiautomaticly through the use of their maps and systems, fall within the gray area I mentioned earlier, in 1 mgr. Section 4. the bill, which refers to a partial or complete automation. It leaves a lot of space for interpretation. Is it automatically when a scan is used by an individual to automatically look up the customer information in a file, e.g. ... ina store? Or is it automatic if a probe is used to add a book to a client's deposit file in a library or whatever? Then there's all the other files. One of the most important files on the Internet is a file that no one has ever heard of, which is a DNS/WHOIS system. They are an important basis for both transparency and trace responsibility on the Internet, but it is not clear whether DNS systems operate with public information on domain owners and IP-talking fields in opposition to GDPR. It's an open question. On the one hand, the buyers of domains should be aware that their information will be published in the WHOIS database; however, it can also be concluded that many people are unaware of this, since they may not even know that the database has a head covering, and that its approval is completely forbidden in GDPR. The right reaction would be to check everyone for confirmation, but it has a high cost, especially since many addresses are recorded incorrectly, some archaic information is found on the foundation. Aggressive reaction would be shutting down WHOIS information that would cause major damage to both the network's ability to organize itself and when it comes to self-control, but it would also limit the government's ability to deal with any type of Internet crime. This is an example of a huge gray area requiring explanations and until we get the answer to how it is exactly so, WHOIS database drivers, whether in Iceland or abroad, are expected to have huge fines. I'm running out of time, but as I've said, I could talk about it for a long time before I'd run out of stuff. The key point is this: It's a huge case. There's an amazing amount of complications in how it's implemented. We've known for years that it was coming, and we only got to see the bill last night. This is to illegalize many business models. In most cases, it is the best, not all of them. Of course, we would like to avoid being a profit spy, but we don't want to prevent normal access to the registration of data necessary to run society normally, and I may refer to the rural communities that have been introduced by a lot of people. In order to say one good thing in the end, it is very good that it remains open to the use of the landmarks in the bill. That's the best part. I'm sorry, I haven't read the whole bill. It's extremely complicated. I hope that the committee that treats the case will be very careful and not allowing pressure due to a lack of time will cause it to fail. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-64.u29	A respectable president. I hear the Senator could talk here for a few days about these matters. I think that's very good for us, who are on the General and Education Committee, and I'll have the case discussed listening to him and to others who have been well versed in the personal protection program. I cut by what he said about the DNS base which the Internet is all we use on, and we rely a little on as one of the basic systems of our society. I wondered if we on the General and Education Committee need to investigate specifically INSIC, as the senator mentioned, how the bill is involved in their business, whether this is an introduction or whether it is a bigger problem that has to do with the Regulation as it comes from outside. For other systems, a common network on the Internet, I think of a country.is, if we need to watch it or take some special place there.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-64.u30	Madam President. It's incredibly complicated. I took the DNS and WHOIS in particular because it's such a big foundation system that we rely on, but it's very easy to forget about their existence. It is not only ISNIC and others who run the WHOIS system that this bill can touch but also, for example, only. The phone book. They are now being collected a large amount of information automatically so that it is very clearly subject to the conditions in Article 4. This is an official database that shows people's personal information, their name, their address, their phone number, the job title and so forth and has been determined to accept or accept a release, but it is a question of whether they are clear enough and when they put information in a phone book how accurately many will have access to it and for what purpose. The problem may not only be a particular party but also a systematic one. I'm not saying it's insurmountable. This is a bit of a problem, but we need to make sure that the bill does not harm such databases which are just as public but may be interpreted to have too much information or hidden permission. And then there's all the other stuff. It's forever.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-64.u31	Madam President. I'd like to briefly reflect on one more point in this, whether it is relevant to business on these bases, in the hands of public members or private partners. ISNIC e.g. but around the country. He was an evil private person in his day. The telephone records were also privatized at the time because the senator mentioned them. I wondered if these problems would be overcome more easily if it was still an official possession of this matter or whether the rules are the same anyway. I think of a bill of lawhouses that we're considering at the council building into the system that allows you to have a secret home so that you're in the middle of the world but that you can choose not to show up looking outside what the official party needs to be able to tax a man and whatever it is used as a lawhouse. I wondered if there are any of these fiancs that need to be based on the system here, since we are now this interconnected network society and we rely a little bit on these common foundations.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-64.u32	Madam President. I've seen a set of waivers in the bill that handles information in public areas that make the grey area considerably brighter. But there may be some private people who are in more trouble, I mention examples such as the phone book INSNIC, and maybe even companies like Creditinfo, who have a huge collection of credit - trust databases, that can also be mentioned in general by banks with a wide range of information. Of course, when banks open accounts and such, they accept terms. There is a definite understanding that these data should be kept secret and that they can be collected. I don't know that I have ever personally given Creditinfo permission to collect information about me, either a company I've owned, or credit, or anything else. There is another example of failure to grant permission. It must be much more specific. I don't think there's a problem with the official sides, and there might be some special authority against them. I repeat, I haven't been able to read the bill through, so it's very likely that I missed something. However, the understanding must be in such a way that it is perfectly clear what criteria are made and what are expected of companies who have all these databases, from video stores to operators, private clinics medical records, and similar. What should they do to qualify? It's not clear to me today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-64.u33	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthyr for a very good speech. She could have been much longer, perhaps not two days as the senator talked about, but if I had got some food and coffee and a little rest, I would have been ready to listen to him. I'm really broke in these cases. I've only been looking through this 147 - page bill, and I haven't really figured out anything but a fraction of it. I decided that the senator spoke of having observed this with great interest since 2012, and I saw that the first law on identity protection took place in 1981. At that time, I was the one at the University of Reykjavík learning electrical activation, and there we were merely able to understand how computer equipment is built from base to base through binary systems and something like that, and I was very interested in it. It's been years since, and the Internet became reality, I can't remember when. It's about Internet services and what's going on through computers. I took it from the senator that if asked in personal protection, he would have to answer no. Is it because it hasn't been put back on its feet yet? As with the charges to Facebook and Google and other people, what is their basis? I'll start by asking.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-64.u34	Madam President. These are excellent questions. I think it's normal for everyone to be rather fresh and new when it comes to personal protection. Although I've been very interested in these issues for a long time and I've been following the trend, there's a whole range of ideas within the discussion that I'm completely ignorant of. Sanity of individuals, privacy, is a very new idea in history. Perhaps it was Brandeis and Warren who created this concept in their modern - day understanding of Harvard Law Review article, that I recall, in 1890 or so. So all of us will learn a lot. The reason companies have to answer no is that although they have just prepared and done all they can to be GDPR, this is not a law, and it will not be legal until first, after the Congress resolution. It's been recorded on the EEA joint committee and approved there, and then the bill, of course, has to be through. Until then, this has not become legal, no matter how well the companies are prepared, they must answer no if they are asked if it has become legal in this case, because otherwise they were simply lying. What was the other thing? [[Foreplay, my dears.]] I don't know if the charges on Google and Facebook, and probably many others, are based on something, but they're naturally well-known, and everyone should be able to realize that these are companies that have collected vast amounts of personal information about people, all users and even many who don't use it, so-called contrast models, for years. [[The president calls.]] It is not likely that some of that evidence caused people to charge. I think it's mostly Max Schrems who's reported charges. [[The president calls.]] He's famous for his opinions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-64.u35	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answers. You've heard it with like that. Facebook and Google are doing a lot of things that come up on the Internet and you're looking at and when they ask you to play games and something like that, that they're mapling you, and you're peeling and flat all over the world. Then I also cut off the senator's account that people need to know their rights in matters of personal protection. The question is, Is there much to do in informing people about it? So I'm sure it is, but what's the main thing? Is there information on the bioavailability of people to which they have the right thing? Is it possible for the senator to review only what he meant by having a right to know more about a person on the universe?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-64.u36	Madam President. For the information collected, individuals have the right to know exactly what websites, each company, every company, every company, gather, exactly what data is collected, for what purpose, how these data will be used, whether other persons, third parties, get copies of that data, whether or not they have any new data made from that data, etc. It's all in there. It's a lot, of course. Now I know what to do. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson has been sweating over the past few weeks to update the Pirate election system in order to be in perfect harmony with the GDPR protocol. The most amazing detail needs to be considered. I'm going to get out of my way to talk technically - like I haven't done it before. Take, for example, ake-tack on Facebook, or any other third-party button. If such a button is contained on a Web site, that service can place a so-called cookie in your browser. Whether the individual is the user or not is an agent of that service. Suppose you have always been determined not to want to be on Facebook and never made an account. However, Facebook can monitor you, keep this cookie in your browser - unless you specifically shut it down - and you can monitor you through the Internet. This is a so-called shadow test field, which suggests that the person who conducts such a contrast test has never given Facebook permission to monitor him in this way. And this is not just Facebook, although it is perhaps the largest party, there are hundreds of people online who do the same or similar things and have vast powers of personal information. [[The president calls.]] Of course, that needs to be limited.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-29-64.u37	Madam President. I find it very sobering to think that the Ministry of Justice itself should view the fact that a complete doll with a bill for a new song is so easily introduced into Icelandic legislation without giving a good time and proper time for the council to examine and form an opinion of domineered matters. And perhaps especially in view of the fact that this is just her legal body, her specialty, the legal system itself, that is to be called the reactant of lawbreakers. It is disturbing to know that a minister of justice is not taking more careful steps to the earth in these matters. This is a scene, GDPR, which touches all areas of society, as has been repeated in the public discourse today. This is, in fact, a unique matter and nothing more than a pure and direct revolution in personal protection. This shouldn't come to the highest level. There is no surprise to the minister of justice, for this has been unseen for a longer period of time. In order for the Agency to perform the role that it will be assigned after the introduction of this Regulation, personal protection has been made available for a fourfold increase in the number of workers. This shouldn't come to the highest level. The fact is, rather, that the one here listened just a year ago to the chief of the Persian Guardians explains this fact. As I understood it, the argument that some of the time frames in the Agency would require an increase in the number of men in which she will respond to the complaints and charges. For example, it was that if the agency didn't react, within 72 hours, it would collapse. So, as I say, it's been a year since this was clearly shown in the council wall. The fines and these high giants, as one senator mentioned earlier tonight, could touch small rural communities very badly and heavy, even heavy that it could, in theory, put rural communities next financially. A recent example was that of the rural community here in the capital area, at Garðatown and on Seltananes, where very sensitive personal information was available to the public because of a slipper's failure - it is not yet discovered, for example, whether these rural communities are mandatory to the authorities involved. If we think about this in the real world, not just in the print of a thick pile or on the Internet, but only here in Iceland in real world, the consequences may be many and unpredictable and even highly predictable, which can be very serious for country and nation. It seems obvious to me that to provide the matter with privacy the council needs to work on such a huge matter, it would be necessary to postpone its end. Now that this country as well as anywhere else in the world has come up, Cambridge Analytica has become a real sense of awareness, and people are not ready to accept anything. That's why it's very positive. Therefore, it's a little boring that this should happen under these circumstances, in hand racing when our Internet could be compared to a building we all live in, under the same roof. This Regulation, GDPR, is about washing the windows, to some extent. But let us not wash our windows with dirty water. If this is done at such a flash speed as it seems to be the will of the government, then we're just doing it exactly, we're washing the windows with dirty water.
