ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u1	The president considers an agreement that may last longer than the Senate allows.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u2	The president wants to report that seven letters have been received from the secretary of transportation and rural administration, where they request an deadline to provide written answers to the inquiries of the panels. 260, about the future of Reykjavík's airport, from the Þorsteinn of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, to the river. 303, on the Western island vector from Ásmundur Friðriksson, to the river. 426, Regarding the Ministry's staff and the establishments of the minister's case, from the village of Sæmundsson, to the threshing floor. 378, for the ministers and for the driver, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, to the threshing floor. 435 on transport funding, from the University of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, to the threshing floor. 337, for the cost of land landings, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson and on the threshing floor. 392, of the re-education of passengers and freight trucks, of Rafney Hyn Island Magnúsdóttir. There have been five letters received from the Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs requesting every time in order to provide written answers to panels. 567, on the tribute of the treasure of the kingdom, from Óli Björn the son of Kárason, to the threshing floor. 382, for the ministers and for the drivers, from Björn the son of Gunnarsson, to the threshing floor. 397, on the recruitment of a minister driver, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, to a threshing floor. 423 members of the Ministry and institutions of the minister's case, the Þorsteinn Sæmundsson of Seymund, to the threshing floor. 463, the payaturities development of government executives and institutions, from Oddný G. Harðardóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u3	To answer, Prime Minister, Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs, Education and Culture, and Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u4	Mr. President. It was really nice to see how much the Germans responded. Prime Ministers, as well as those powerful heads of the nations, were exposed. Germany has shown great responsibility in the affairs of refugees, but sad to say, we Icelanders have been hospitable to children in bad circumstances during the visit. First, all classes met together, except the Independence Party, for the change in law to protect children from flight. In a paper with the bill, the Lawgiver's wish to always address material treatment applications for international protection if the applicant is in a particularly delicate position. Then the same groups resolved to immediately reconsider the alien law in order to ensure the right of children and respect the United Nations Children's Covenant. Four months after the government's start, it's not working. And worse still, the rights of children in this miserable situation have been neared. Now it looks like the highest. Minister of Justice has ignored the lawgiver's will completely by means of a new regulations. Sick children who had previously had the potential for safety and shelter will now be deported. This happens in the present government and, apparently, on the same day as the highest. The minister of justice is protected from confidence in the inadequacy of the majority of government officials. So I must ask the highest. Minister: Did she know of this regulations when the minister of justice was mistrusted? How does she feel about this principle? This is unscrupulous, inhumane, cold - cut, and must be ice - cold in the face of the left green that has spoken for more humanity in this language. Now they really try to see if their language is just empty. So I ask the highest. Prime Minister: Will she rise immediately and contradict conduct of the highest order? Minister of Justice?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u5	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator warms my words and asks for a very important subject. Because of what? A senator asks me if I have been aware of the contents of the Regulation he referred to in the inquiry, then it wasn't to me. But I had overlooked observing the content of this Regulation. I have subsequently put myself in the criticality established by the Red Cross on the subject of the Regulation, in which the Red Cross feels that it is too far too difficult to pressure those who come here to flee. Because of what? A member in particular asks me how I react, and I have requested a conversation between the Ministry of Presidency and the Ministry of Justice to review the criticism of the Red Cross carefully and to review this matter entirely based on the criticism and how it should be handled. I want to reiterate that in the nucleus of the alien laws that were accepted here at the time, it is particularly noted that humanity should be our guide in the welcome of refugees and, especially, children. That is why it is important that we accept the serious criticism that has developed, and we review it in the realm of the government. Hv. A senator also asks for the cross - political work that was offered in a government contract, not just for a review of foreigners, but also for the development of foreigners. I have specifically asked for this, and I have received answers that there are still a shortage of nods from two political parties at the Council of that committee. So I've requested that they be pressed after them so that this work can start as early as possible because I've put emphasis on it, as it were. A senator also, that of this matter, there is a tendency toward parapolitical solidarity. It's important for a group like this one.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u6	Mr. President. In fact, there is a possibility that there will not be an entirely parapolitic arrangement on this subject. This was shown in the position of the Independence Party in the last fall. But then, the rest of us, who really have more to do this, have to force our own will. I'm asking, "What's changed now if it's the highest? " Minister is listening to the Red Cross? Because the attitude of the Red Cross was long before the Regulation was signed. I'd like to ask the highest, too. Since she says she will press after the job of this transverse committee: "She is not worried about the highest level. Will Minister of Justice not simply ignore the conclusions made by the Parapolitan Commission and issue regulations in and out of the south? And then, in view of it: A minister does not consider reevaluating whether the office of power to the minister has become too delicate in some matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u7	Mr. President. Because of what? A senator refers again to the transnational Synod committee, which is under the Treaty. So I'm not worried that I'll miss the job that's going to be there. I'm concerned, however, that I might be forced to nominate the committee. I understand from the Prosecutor of Porta that they have been appointing themselves, which is the best case. On the other hand, I also understand that there is still a request from the Central Party. I hope she's on her way because it's important that this job be started as soon as possible. That was in my previous answer to the question of why. A senator that, in turn, I will review this case specifically with the highest degree. The minister of justice, for it is important that we listen to the comments presented in the review of the Red Cross. As mentioned in my first answer, my attention to that comment was not taken until following the confirmation of the Regulation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u8	A respectable president. I'm here to direct a question to the highest. Financial and economic ministers. During the weekend, an independent party meeting met and concluded that I saw reason to commend the group in particular for a fine conclusion that turned to the Land Hospital, which has been very controversial here. Independents even reasoned. and said, on permission of the president: The construction will be completed on the National Hospital Building and related to the current activities. The need for immediate local selection for the development of high-risk hospital services with security and a stronger transport guide will be reviewed. Most of the people I know were so obvious that there was reason to celebrate this change of course, especially knowing about the discussion that has taken place. Now, the one here is so lucky to have many good independents for friends. Many of them were agents at a national meeting, not one... [[The article "What National Meeting? "]] That's what I'm talking about. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] But not one of them understood the conclusion that another hospital was being concluded and that it should be completed on Ring Road. There are two things I would like to ask the highest. Minister for. Is the government alone in this matter? With better articles on this subject that I have seen for a long time, an article is the highest. The Minister of Education for Alfreðsdóttir Alfreddd, under the heading, is there anything to fear about professional food? That article appeared in the morning newspaper. I encourage all members to read it because it is an excellent summary of the case and why we should have a local analysis. The other question I'd like to ask the highest. A minister who has been a financial or prime minister for the past few years: Has the definition of the building points been changed? I don't know any man who is willing to define it as if the treatment center of a land hospital has reached a level of construction. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u9	A respectable president. I missed what. A senator at the Independence Party meeting, he was a good associate there for years and a confidential member of the pack, year after year. No doubt he had mixed feelings when he from a long distance watched as a thousand came together to conclude on the various issues, including the following: the management of health issues. You're right. A senator says that there was also a part of the Bible. Step into what turns to Land Hospital. It is now that the treatment core of the Land Hospital has been completed in the design phase, for several weeks, for the use of shovels to reach a new treatment core, and so it is up to the level of construction. [[Up front.]] When people talk about the current projects or have advanced performances, they are talking about what has been designed. There's no question that in the context of the Land Hospital, people are talking about the fact that they're going to be in Iceland's emergency and university hospital, but they agreed on that in the Independence Party - and I'm not afraid. A senator just to come back to the category and attend a meeting if he is so interested in the work being done - that it is wise to look for long future in the construction of hospital services in Iceland and that it is time, even though we are in the middle of the process of completing the construction of the land hospital we have been able to accomplish here in the financial programmes of the past few years, to consider another more specialized hospital to support matters that will take up with the Ringway.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u10	A respectable president. I especially watched this particular resolution made by the National Conference, and especially because the head of the Independence Committee is the same one that goes before our Hospital, I believe that the members of the community are interested in going to the hospital on the Circletrack and building there. But, of course, now I come only to my old friends, and present to defend, the general representative of the country meeting, that there is no one there to conclude that a new hospital is to be placed in a new place that should be in some sort of basic service and that needs to be given the safety, the stronger transportation routes, and so on along the streets if it is merely to replace hip joints and remove a mole. It's completely different, and there's no way that any general member of the United States... could have understood the matter in a way that seems to be replaced in the future. I reiterate my question. With reference to the good article as the highest. Is there anything to fear when it comes to professional food? [[The president calls.]] "Is the government in agreement on this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u11	A respectable president. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator should even request an immediate meeting on the Independence Party welfare committee and be there to ask just what position the conclusion is of inexplicable reasoning. Hv. A senator may just want to connect himself with the head of the Independence Committee, sit down with him, and ask how it is right to interpret the conclusions made by the Independence Committee. [[Up front.]] I don't know what it's all about in this chamber that a member of the Central Party calls for an explanation for a resolution on the Independence Committee. We may want to make it a practice to review the conclusions of various categories regularly. This could be upbuilding. [[Up front.]] But in this matter, we are simply talking about the rise of a hospital on the Ring Road, the Landspike. He'll be the emergency and university hospital. The Independence Party believes that it is time to consider further building hospital services, including those in the first century C.E. Because of the factors mentioned in that conclusion. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u12	To prevent misunderstandings, the president states that this is a meeting at the General Assembly, not the Independence Party meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u13	A respectable president. A great deal has been discussed in the case of Haukur the son of Hilmarsson, who has disappeared, but last spoke to him in the province of Afrin, Syria. The case should be the highest. Minister well aware, he has had it for the treatment of his Ministry for the past few weeks. In my first request to the Minister, I would like to concentrate on the treatment at the highest level. Minister and Ministry on the Haukur case. On the one hand, I'd like to ask about the highest level of communication and information. Minister and Ministry to Haukur's family. On the other hand, I'd like to ask how the highest. A minister has applied himself to the international affairs of Haukur's case. The closest members of Haukur's son Hilmarsson's camp have no clear right to be well informed of the work done within the Ministry as well as in other authorities to find Haukur. This right has been repeatedly confirmed by the European Court of Human Rights, based on Article 2, 3, and chapter 8. European Convention of Human Rights. So I want to ask the highest. Minister: How is it that Haukur's family needed to contact the Ministry on their own two days after word of the alleged death of Haukur? Why is that so? A minister himself did not contact Haukur's family until a few days thereafter? Second, a minister received indications from the U.S. Marshal's International Department of Police to use traditional diplomatic means to locate Haukur on March 8 There, the International Department referred to such methods as these to have proved to be the best of action for other nations. So I ask, "When did it start? " Minister, direct contact with his colleagues in Turkey? How is it that for more days, this comment came out of the U.S. Marshal's Department?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u14	A respectable president. All routes have been sought to reach the end of the son of Haukur Hilmarsson. We have stressed the importance of working closely with the pain - stricken neighbors of Haukur. On the first report received on March 6, we consulted with the U.S. Marshal's International Department and Iceland's deputies in the area. Formal assistance from Haukur's family arrived on March 7, and the matter was placed in full priority, with a unique issue being discussed. At that time, people in the region and several countries who have experience in similar matters were consulted. As soon as it was reported that Turks might have been held by Haukur, Tyrki was contacted through the embassies of Turkey, in Oslo, the highest representatives of the Turkish government of Iceland, and had the Icelandic and Turkish government, including the military authorities, been in constant contact on different means from that day on. To set matters straight by the government, the matter has been adopted by the foreign minister, secretary of defense, and the family minister of Turkey. There has been confirmation that Turks did not hold Haukur and that he will be sought among the dead and wounded in the area. However, other data are not available. Civil service employees are the most skilled employees of foreign services to handle matters like Haukur's case because of their connections and experience. In addition, about 30 people have been approached by Haukur, which corresponds to more than 10% of the total foreign staff. Haukur's case has been carefully covered. We're all on the same team and we're trying to find Haukur. Our friends have been contacted to learn how similar civil services are handled. The last time, a prime minister wanted to assist the German government at his meeting with a German chancellor. All have warned that the situation is extremely complex, difficult to obtain, and even harder to provide help. Governments with representatives in the area have also agreed to assist in the search but have not yet received conclusive confirmation of the survival of Haukur. In these countries, including the North countries, their citizens are traveling for their own responsibility in areas where governments warn against visiting, and they cannot expect assistance if anything happens. [[The president calls.]] We are not guided by standards. We will continue to do everything we can to find Haukur. Yet, our power and ability are limited. I'll take a closer look at that as a dog. A senator asked about my answer in later years.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u15	Mr. President. Yes, thank you very much. Minister for the answer, hoping to get further explanations of activities at the highest level. Minister himself to discuss with Haukur's family, in his second answer. But that's a short answer, and I have another question to the highest. Minister. It reverses the attack by the Transitian Citizens of Northern Syria, subject to the inconspicuous name of the olive branch operation, or its operation, or the operation of the Ozone Operations Olive Branch, and is carried out without the approval of the United Nations Security Council. They state the silent approval of most NATO nations but now the German chancellor has condemned the attacks. So I want to ask the highest. Minister: Does he view an illegal invasion and attack by Tyma into Syria and at Qurda as the establishment of the United Nations? If a minister agrees with me that this is so, do not Ministers count a cause to condemn this invasion and take the best possible action against the local warfare activities of Turks, the field of NATO as well as the rest of internationally?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u16	A respectable president. I'm going to keep on trying to come to the answers to the questions that arise. A senator came with us. When it comes to telephone calls with the Minister, timing is key and it is important to have tried other options before, including to the very essence of such conversations. Thus, the Ministers were well informed, and it was evident that information had been sought on the basis of previous contact. We were immediately informed that the application would take time. Although this is not the custom of neighboring nations, I would have felt that the importance of the matter was addressed directly to Turkey's foreign minister and secretary of defense. In the case of Turkey's actions in Aphrin, the government criticized the military action of Turk against Syria, Syria, just days after it began on January 20, 2018. This was done directly to the ambassador of Turkey against Iceland, followed by a foreign - language committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u17	Mr. President. The nature of our land is a resource in itself, and it involves something of great value to the nation and the whole world. Thus, our obligations to nature and responsibility are great. The left movement's policy of green bid is hidden, including in that there will be national parks in the middle of the highlands and in the high areas of the West. The policy of the government on these topics is presented on page 23 of the government covenant and stated only in these matters about the establishment of a national park in the central highlands. Mr. President. I do not question the importance of dropback security on the West, but it does indicate that other pathways are capable of ensuring the inhabitants of the West from a safe supply of electricity, but that the massive damage to nature by activating the Whale on the Coast. So I ask the highest. Prime Minister: Is it safe to believe that a government led by it lets nature enjoy the doubt and that the uninhabited areas of the Western highlands are protected from the influence of the production of Whales in the Beach?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u18	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry on the challenge of Whirlwind and natural beauty in the highlands of the West. A senator agrees completely. I must recall, though, that Investigation was organized into a new frame plan, with the second step of a frame plan, which was handled here at the General Assembly, if I recall the proper meeting of 2012-03/2013. Then the General agreed. A candidate knows the work process, so activation options are put down in protection, waiting, and use, and the process is always an advantage. Then, like a dog, it will take over. A senator knows that if a decision to use is made to attack the environmental impact assessment, it is the local government to take a stand on the implementation of the Agency when it is evaluated. I've said it here, and I haven't changed my mind that I've expressed concern that once the Allegorium passes the category of activation options, it's actually a significant work in assessing environmental impact, but the Council will not be able to make that decision again. The career we've agreed on here is this. In view of what happened. A senator here mentioned, what if an assessment of environmental impacts even produces negative results in many joints, is normal for rural management, as is currently legal, to be undertaken only, or should some other process take over? However, there is a much larger question than this specific activation option. It really matters how we make decisions in general about protection and use. Personally, I think it would be normal for us to take this into consideration because we've had this conversation before, not just about Whaleting, we've also had this conversation about activation in the lower part of the Red Sea, where we have quite some doubt as to how the wild salmon population will affect the wild salmon population, which is not really under the opinion of the project management framework. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u19	Mr. President. Thank you very much. However, the minister's reply I allow to say that I had hoped for a more meaningful support for this important subject. I'm gonna allow me to quote the Organization for the requested procedure, with the permission of a president: The EEA has concluded that the main environmental impact of Indural Implementation lies in the vast decline of wild areas and the change in shape of the projections and landscapes, where natural environments are made in large areas. Later, says: ▪ According to the National Institute for change, the impact of Investigation on appearances, landscapes, and landscapes is highly negative - I reiterate, severely negative - ◯ despite counter-important measures. I also allow myself to quote in Snorri Baldursson, former chairman of the Land Protection Agency and author of the German newspaper of Iceland. He says, with President's permission: ▪ Is there anything that works for the Westerners by linking from Hvalá to Geiradal for the Nautilus at Isafjörður? And it points to the development of an automatic backup station in Bolungarvík, etc. and says that much of the past is quoted when a small amount of electricity security is discussed on the north side of the West. [[The president calls.]] I reiterate my admonition to the prime minister that on her watch this important natural disaster will be protected. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u20	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the pep talk. What I came to see in my previous answer is that we've agreed on a certain legal environment and a certain career. We must realize that when we are dealing with these issues, we need to respect the laws and frameworks established by the Council itself. It calls for discussion, I think, here at the General Assembly, if we want to change the frame and procedure we've set. I can have my opinion on it, as everyone knows, when it was suggested that it go to a novelty party, just so I'll rip it up here. At the same time, I respect the fact that the greater portion here at the Council has come to a definite conclusion in this matter. Then I laugh less. Of course, a senator's priorities in this government are to ensure that there is safety and to make better use of the electricity we have in this country but that we are not using it the way it should today by trusting in the lines. It doesn't necessarily need new continuum transfunctioners. I think we're gonna do what. A senator would agree. [[The president calls.]] They need to see how we can better use the energy inside the system. That's the priority of this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u21	Mr. President. Like other members of the council here today, I would like to make conclusions about the Independence Party's discovery, although there is no way to disseminate from the meetings of the local senator, as it were. The secretary of finance made a subject earlier in this question period. The findings of the Independence Party's National Conference of the Last weekend state: The suicide party rejects further expeditors of the European Union's dominion over the European Union's energy market. In a press movement following this resolution and the declarations of the Independence Party to the Norwegian media, it could be understood that this conclusion meant that the Independence Party, and indeed, according to the claims of the senator of the overwhelming majority of the council, did not support the implementation of a European Commission on the common energy market, despite the fact that this Regulation was adopted in the European Economic Area and the current Supreme Court. Secretary of state, and expected to arrive at the present and present supreme. Professional minister, both Ministers of the Independence Party. In fact, the recording went a little quiet, but it came into the contract in May of last year. In view of this and the fact that I am aware that the Norwegians were spending considerable time in leading this recording to protect Norway's interests in this case, and in these words, I would like to ask the highest court of the Norwegian Council. Financial Minister: What measures, if any, made ministers to protect Iceland's special interests before the above regulations were taken up in the contract? And in view of these statements: Does the Independence Party support the decision made on the recording of the aforementioned members of the EEA Convention by the then and present members of the Party? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u22	A respectable president. Here are some very important issues. First, when it comes to such a matter at the General Assembly, the last word is the matter. It is the priority man makes in the European partnership, that he does not have a administrative warrant to commit Iceland to his contract table in Brussels, without the presence of the General Assembly. That's the main thing about the warnings. Second, it is a very large subject, which on the surface, possibly, is not directly involved in the Icelandic electricity market because the company of the common agency is not activated until the Icelandic market is connected to the European market. Nevertheless, let us still wonder. I think it's a very good thing to discuss just internal markets in broad context. So let us consider what we have to do on Europe's inner market to deal with electricity problems that are monotonous in Iceland, Brussels. What do we have to do with talking to other EU countries electronic energy cases off the island of Iceland? Is it a direct concern of the inner market when there is no connection? Or do we rely on making the final arrangements for the problems of an Icelandic electrical exchange to be resolved on our terms, as the Council chooses? This seems to me to be questions worthy of much discussion here at the council. Then there is a big issue in the future which rules of action should be taken if you associate the Icelandic electronic market that is not currently planned with the European and what rules should apply there. [[The president calls.]] In that case, I think it is natural for humans to cooperate in some form of cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u23	Mr. President. I prefer to interpret a minister's answer or inconsistencies, as if the members' ministers had done nothing to take special care of Icelandic interests. It's a good thing to remember in this context that this is an important case, that's right, that's about our commitments under the EEA Convention. It's been several years since we took up a European electricity market in this country. It's one smell of that. When referring to a two - sided solution, it may be helpful to keep in mind, too, that this is the exact same two - key solution that was taken up on the financial market and the highest. Secretary of finance confirmed on behalf of the then government. This directive and its uptake into the EEA Convention were precisely held out for financial analysis because the decision included the exact same effective method for the electricity market; where the interests were slightly lower in the electronic market than the financial market was held. But that's why I might ask, in light, well, we can say an ever-growing review of the Independence Party and how the legs are repeatedly drawn for the implementation of the EEA Convention: Will the Independence Party support the continued value of the EEA Convention here? [[The president calls.]] Does the Independence Party support a government in which it places high priority on the careful implementation of the EEA Convention?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u24	A respectable president. Just to make this last question clear: Of course we support the EEA deal, our involvement in it, and its better implementation. In this regard, we have been premeditated here at the council and have published specific reports on this subject and, in fact, foreign ministers with special emphasis on the implementation of the EEA Convention. What I find so hard to understand is interest. A senator and some of the members of the council are expected to submit to the invitation of the Common European institutions. What on earth is human beings bent on getting under the European Common Electrical Institute of Energy in our isolated country by our own electrical systems? [[Up front.]] Why on earth are people interested in ensuing the invitations of these institutions?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u25	We're already under it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u26	Well, because we're already under it? That's a reason. President? Is it true that since the European Union has already been able to establish Iceland into some European institution, there is reason to go further? I think it's so fundamental that we define what's an internal market that we want to take special care of under the EEA Treaty and what are issues that are not directly linked to the internal market. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Here we have a crystal clear example: Iceland's electricity is not internalized. [[The president calls.]] Then there are aspects of the legislation that we have already introduced that are probably continuing to adapt to the agreement. [[The president calls.]] [[Foresee, and you haven't.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u27	Mr. President. I'm grateful that the word has become so reasonable, as I believe that the president has no choice at all. I'd like to ask you something about a written inquiry I sent to the secretary of finance on December 16, 2017, and I've never heard of it. It's important now that we're dealing with financial policy because it's about property and income in 2016 and how it develops. There is evidence to suggest that there is an increase in property differences, and this confirms various parties. When I call for financial answers, they are told that they were going to wait until July because they were going to take along too in 2017. I didn't ask for 2017. I'll do it this summer. I want to get right now - because it won't take many days - answers to how these money exchanges and property divisions were 2016.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u28	V.E.G. President. All I'd like to do is ask a president to use himself on behalf of members of Congress. Today's morning newspaper continues to write about the inquiry of members of Congress. We've recently discovered that the management board has complained a little and howling about having to do inquiries from members of the council. Today's morning newspaper quotes some minister who I don't know whether he is the present or the former, who believed that the inquirys of members of Congress were often some kind of play. These queries are an important part of the Parliament's surveillance of the European Commission and support it. It is very important that the council, especially the president, send a clear message now, in view of the media discussion, from the Commission that the Council is going to back up its members to use the tools they have to provide for the Commission.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u29	Mr. President. Hv. Einarsson Logi Einaro points out that he has been waiting for an answer from the highest level. Economic and financial secretary on the property and income of the people of the country. He's been waiting since December. I've been waiting a month for answers to questions about the processing of information on Iceland's property in nationalities, how to process the Panama Documents. Both questions are very important and relevant to the public, members of Congress, and the media. Then I want to agree with what. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson writes on an article in the Morning newspaper that speaks of the use of inquiries by senators to keep their appearances visible. Clearly, this aspect of our work is being minimized. V.E.G. The president has in two meetings of the council groups said that members of Congress are asking too much questions. So I ask, Mr. President, is there being defended by the Commission for such delicate and difficult questions as the possession of Iceland and how do you process the Panama papers and the property of Iceland? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u30	President is forced to state that this is not a proper hearing for President to meet with members of Congress. The President has provided only detailed information on the position of inquiries, and no comment of the kind has been made that he considers them too many. On the contrary, he has reminded us that this is an important and well - protected session of members of Congress, and it is not necessarily a major concern because it is selected in a constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u31	Mr. President. I want to accept that challenge. paritaprevir The Council's President Logi Einarsson insists that he insists on the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance responding to the requested request. Here is a very important inquiry and answers to it give us a very clear message about the kind of community we live in and the way we are going. There is evidence to suggest that Iceland's property balance is increasing and that it was already abundant. In response to a similar request at the time, it was clear that 5% of the population have almost as much pure property as the other 95%. If we only grow this swarm, we will see that only 20% of the nation owns nearly 90% of its clean property. So 80% of the people have the rest, 10%. There's a hurry to get that information. We also see in the news how there is an inequity in increasing numbers as there are reports of 26 Icelandic bankers paying about a billion a year, one fourth of what this government is about to spend on interest. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u32	Mr. President. Yeah, I have to come up here and join up with another guy. Councilmen here have spoken of the importance of the Supreme Court. Ministers respond to queries on time and do their best to fulfill the surveillance obligation we are having at this council. It has also been said, and I have observed it repeatedly, perhaps because it is my committee, I have repeated it in the Ministry of Justice, that it does not respond at the scheduled time for memoirs, information; will deliver them even late and finally and not, without any explanation, and indeed, in a compromise with the doctrine. I want it to be directed to the highest, too. President that we are going to look for ways to have more powerful tools to bring up this information and respond when the Ministry is not repeated on its legal duties and constitution, as the president rightly mentioned. [[The president calls.]] Should we not consider on the scene of the council how we can better identify the need for the Ministry to answer those who draw back and give no answers?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u33	V.E.G. President. It seems that the government system in Iceland has raised its backs because it is too much for its members to use their constitutiond right to direct inquiry to the Commission. The person here has about 20 queries left unsettled by various forms of advice. Now I understand from the Mogga this morning that it's all for demonstrations. I can claim to the U.S.R. that the need to show signs of signing is very different from where it is not here at the General by......and direct inquiries to advice on matters relating to our administrations. [[Take it up to where?]] [[Up front.]] I am pleased that the minister of finance rejoices over this, for I have him as an ally in opening up the administration, which I have requested in the repeated inquirys to him and to others. Seeing how cheerfully he is about this brings my optimism. But to tell you the truth, I'm too fed up with this kind of bullshit.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u34	A respectable president. Early in 2013, I began to complain that members of Congress ask too much questions. There has been an increasing trend for the Generals to use their means of managing and monitoring the Executive Director, which may well be the case. I would like to understand the problems of others, especially political opposers, so as to understand more fully how to compromise. I can understand the problem that there's too much to do. As a senator, I understand how often you are not expected to have time for the work. But then you complain that you don't have enough time, and you complain that you don't have enough staff. But you don't complain that the Allied council has its own surveillance role too well so that the government can handle it. That's a ridiculous statement. He was a terrible 2013, and it's a terrible thing today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u35	A respectable president. We're coming here with the computers, the Pirats. But when this discussion comes up, I start my program showing a number of respondents and unsatisfactory queries. The answer has now been made to 81 for this council, and 141 remain unsatisfactory. However, the unrequired queries have a mean duration of response of 16 days during the average duration of the active day of 24 days, which is only better than, e.g. In the 146th legislature, where the average answer time was 39 days and 145, with a mean response time of 38... it's been a long time since, I could drive it through afterwards, no problem. [[What about 123?]] But this is probably longer than expected in the Senate. I've mentioned earlier that we need to see if there is enough money to do so. Or are we demanding too much from the money we put into it? Should we, then, extend the time, or should we give more money so that questions can be answered at the right time?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u36	Mr. President. I just want to talk about a lot of inquiries and the debates that have been going on with them, that they cost so much, it's so time-consuming, and they take so much of the time of employees in the plots. This has especially been the case. A senator who is overindulging in his duty to conduct this council. I have a feeling that this is the time to fire at the council members who have been most diligent in giving the Commission support and I don't like receiving repeated messages from the councils that they don't hold back from answering our questions and that somehow we might be less able to provide the Commission with us if we don't drag them or do not respond to them in any way. I have a feeling that we should be pulled out of our teeth and belittle those members of Congress who have informed us of very serious things during this council and are acting as if they are costing the public a considerable amount of money in this country while they are informing us of what we are all valuable to the public in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u37	Mr. President. I just sent in this mail to the council members to get us a DCC, State Reconnaissance, to do administrative work on how well the administrations, the executives, the executives, the executives, are engaged in information related to us, the council. The government itself has something to consider how it is now used in order to put the pressure on members of the council to do less of their duty to the government. These answers are natural only by getting information on what it takes to perform a surveillance role for the council, how it is handled, and whether the results are met by law. This request requires only nine members. I sent the mail a few minutes ago. It's already nine or almost done. Other senators who approve of us getting all of this on the table, from this professional, independent body of the council, and wanting to be present at the request sent me mail, please. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u38	V.E.G. President. This morning's article on our application of the Senate quotes a master essay that I eagerly look forward to reading, especially the registration. As to this essay, it says by permission of the president: ▪ In the media, according to their dealings with members of the council, it was said that inquiries were simply drowning them in a number of cases. From there, he says that he has the views that a difficult job is going to be made to answer queries that in some cases seem less than to serve a great purpose at first sight. Are we now going to set up a panel of assessments in the councils on what questions we members of the Parliament are about to ask, or what? Now it takes the highest. President to be with members of Congress. I can't afford to sit around like that. He's anonymous, he's damp, he's pointless, he's wrong. I'm supposed to be with the members of Congress in this matter. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u39	A respectable president. It was mentioned earlier that the morning paper would appear, and we all know the political connection to the Morning newspaper, that the senators use inquiries to make themselves visible. Well, i.e. queries are designed to do things that are visible. This is why this tool is available, in order to supply information. It's the whole point, to bring up a discussion, to call attention to things, whether it's the senator who asks--Well, a lot of people hold me. It's underlying in this lawsuit that there's too much now to ask. It is based on the misunderstanding, on the delusion, that delegates in general were asking enough questions before. It is assumed that in those good old days, i.e. i. e. i. e. e. e. e. a game, a brilliant, perfunctory phenomenon that served its purpose would have worked. But our management isn't open enough. There's not enough data available. It is not easily answered, not easy enough to get information from the State. And this use of this device reflects that fact. [[The president calls.]] Then we should not respond by detracting; we should respond by increasing the authority of the State in order to fulfill their obligation to answer what the senators might ask.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u40	Mr. President. The Board and the Board of Directors do not complain about getting queries from the council, but I think the figures show that we have had more questions and more answers in recent years than we have in recent years. I think the conference must endure questions about some inquiries, such as whether it is necessary for the Management Board to answer the council on the number of tips in reports made by the General of the Council. Of course, there are other issues that are urgent. Of course, it is urgent for the council to get an answer to such questions as the person who asks questions. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson came to minister of the district. And now the answer to the question is, What is the official name of the company where the capital of Iceland is located? The answer is this: Reykjavík is the capital of Iceland, such as 2 mgr. 10th par. Substitute government law. The name of the company is Reykjavíkurburg, as agreed on the government of Reykjavíkurburg and the convention holder of the mayor's No. 715/2013. [[The president calls.]] Of course, it was urgent that the council clear the name of the capital. Of course it could. A senator did not personally look up in the laws or agreements of the city. So let us indeed continue in this course.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u41	A respectable president. Now this is how it is with the inquiry referred to earlier that it was divided into twos, and its other part is about the birthplace of children; there is a defect, it is only misleading if the name of the rural society or the places to which the children are born, and then what is recorded by their public name. That's interesting. I want to know the answer to that. And the answer to the second half of this question has not been raised. For some reason, she was split up. Let's see what this is all about. But I wanted to review some of the council's inquiries that the e-mail office has brought together. In 2017 the EIC supplied 145 Parliamentaries'queries. It sortes it for four hours or less, five to eight hours or longer. There's nothing wrong with getting so much statistics about the size of our queries, for it gives us more information on how we can finance and support this surveillance role. [[The president calls.]] So, more information, the better.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u42	Mr. President. I would like to let it be noted that I do not take it well when endeavoring to be suspicious of the natural part of a senator's job that is gathering information, calling attention to matters, and demanding answers. Let me point out that this time the nation decided to send eight members to the legislature convention. Thus, there are five groups in a position of government, and they differ as many of them. There are many views, interests, and policies that lead to questions that need to be raised, attention to matters, perhaps to a greater degree than when things were different. I also remind you that the President received a superior vote as president, and I reiterate my congratulations and greetings to him as a result. This involves a great deal of support for him, but at the same time, he is required to stand behind the general party, no matter where they may stand. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u43	Mr. President. I'm going to read up that I failed in my first speech about the President's conference board, the mail I sent to the council 13 minutes ago, by permission of the president: ▪ Happy senators. The General's request for administration can give the National Reunion, the General Commission, an examination to evaluate the well - being of the administration of their information at the General Assembly and how well they manage public funds in caring for their duties in the state of democracy. The request is that the State's Accounting take place on the government's policy of handling information with members of Congress, members of Congress, and the General Assembly, including its administration, in turn, making adjustments. And you know what? Suggestions may be that the information we are calling for would be available to all of us in this community. We are far behind when it comes to dealing with information to the public. The information we call remaining should be available. Perhaps we get it out of this administrative system that it would cost much less and we'd all make a lot more money keeping it all open. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u44	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance for wanting to be here today and having a place to talk about customs. Tolls and services are very important to all of us, and after many lean years, the number of toll manager workers finally returns to the toll manager's staff, which is well. But better, if it's enough. The increase in activities is such that more is needed than already. In 2006, some 2.3 million passengers traveled through Keflavík Airport last year, 8.8 million, and probably 10 million each year. In addition, there has been a marked increase in the import of both the small package and the general goods. Tolls are very necessary because it prevents this ratio of objects, substances we don't want; drugs, weapons, illicit food, etc. So it is important that this safety role be properly trained. Of course, toll managers in the past few years have worked hard in a very difficult situation, both because of human birth and lack of equipment. That is one of the things we need to keep in mind because tollman's activities are sometimes somewhat thinly anointed. Tolls in this area also need to care for Sufjörður, they have to take care of Reykjavík Harbor, Cheflavík Airport, and since then we all are appointed to take up a new destination in a passenger flight, e.g. Akureyri and Eglels. This requires extra equipment. Toll managers and their employees have made practice of cutbacks in the past few years. I'll give you one example in that subject. A so - called X - ray, or commercial vehicle, used to look at a container here in Reykjavík and elsewhere, is now 10 years old and gone. One car like that costs a new 400 million. K. One of the things involved with the work of the toll manager is that there's remuneration and so on, so income comes from that function. So it is not entirely conclusive that these are all expenses. There is a significant increase in the use of narcotics. There are dogs and more to increase. It has to be done. It's expensive. We must bear in mind that the same law applies in customs and in the police. If we want to add one 24-hour average price, that would cost more than five places, i.e. one day's stand. So it takes some action. I know that the surveillance of exports has not been carried out as if men would have liked. The monitoring of export is not the least important. It is relevant, e.g. Shuffle. And if export reports are incorrectly implemented in Iceland, economics will not be correct. There's an urgent remedy. Finally, I'd like to go over the toll manager's collection show. The toll manager is the most important person in the collections of government funds, whatever they are, taxes, and so forth. The improved toll of toll managers by 1 percentage point number is 6◯8 billion in the state's budget, 0.5% is 31⁄24 billion, 0.1% is 600 to700 million. So there's still much to it, because it's not a new tax system. These are already prescribed charges. The collection has to be added. That's why I want to challenge the highest. Secretary of finance that he will employ 20 people of the college unemployment record; lawyers, business experts, to further the toll manager's collections. I'll bet on the highest. A minister at the expense of that manpower will yield ten times. It can also be a challenge. If you feel that there is no long - term success, you can make the effort temporary. [[Up front.]] - One bag of chocolate raisins. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I have no doubt that such a provision will benefit both government funds and the chronic unemployment that has been enjoyed among the colleges. I repeat my challenge to the highest. Minister of this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u45	A respectable president. I thank the advocate for the opportunity to discuss these matters and to welcome his interest in the case that has been made clear in the past matter. First, I'd like to refer to a general discussion of customs design. There have been misunderstandings, but such growth in customs has been seen by 20 customs in the past two years, from 102 to 122 since 2016, but a saying of the wording was only involved that there had certainly been an increase. I just want to name these numbers. The desired number of employees must always be defined according to the parameters involved at any given time. There, specialization is important to the changing needs of individuals and employment, and as a result, there will never be a linear relationship between the increased employment management of the customs manager and the number of customs guards. Of course, the progress of the customs manager's office has greatly increased as a result of more tourists and airline passengers and then the delivery of freight for the Internet trade, as has been established. To meet this, there is the increase mentioned above. Then, in recent months, a customs manager has been working on organizational adjustments. These changes will lead to increased expertise and efficient customs monitoring in the rhythm of changing business practices. The primary objective is, not savings, but a better use of resources and resources. Tolerance will therefore increasingly be based on risk factors and defined established labour procedures. In mid - September of this year, the goal is for a new organization to become fully established. With regard to cross-border equipment, it is evident that the surveillance agencies need to be improved on the border, both toll manager and police. Already, mutual suggestions have been received from the office of toll managers, Marshals, police in the capital area, and Southnes police. In particular, the proposals are to monitor the movements of people above the Icelandic region and need to be carefully observed, including with the objective of ensuring that their implementation will be efficient and will be remembered as a burden to those coming here. These suggestions are based on the important experience of other nations and international commitments, but to implement them, financial resources must be ensured. The next financial program, soon to be introduced, will show signs of it. Technology and cooperation were also implemented with the police. As to this, the office of the head of Customs and the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs is a ongoing project to monitor technology and to-do with customs and cross-borders. This is a verbal device that's been very useful. We've been discussing special equipment for Sufjörður in the past to take pictures. This is a ongoing task. It is always necessary to explain the needs at the toll manager's place. It is really only in the way that a new technology can be identified with its real benefits. Here, looking to our main neighboring countries in order to benefit from our experience is helpful. There's no reason for us to come up with the bike again. Toll manager and police service are very good. That's especially to be welcomed. On the basis of this fine cooperation, there is even to consider that the customs manager, Marshal, and chief of police in the area of the capital will be united in a common dwelling. If they succeed, the cooperation of these important institutions will no doubt grow further. In addition, such unity will increase the possibility of joint shopping and the combined use of needed equipment to be used for the benefit of all parties. It should be noted, then, that the cooperation of customs and the police in the East has been excellent and is very important because of the projects related to the arrival of the Norwegian to the Seysterian Sea. Finally, only on the collection. At the present time, the results of collecting taxes and other public paying fines, but they tend to swing in the pace of the economic situation at any given time. The Ministry and customs manager's office have made it more efficient and clearer to the public, as well as to care for equal issues between the taxpayers. The Ministry's focus on collections in general can be found in the policy of financial management programmes of 2018 and 22022, where we set out clear ambition goals. That there are many things to consider in this matter, including This here, for the stress of collecting the state's funds, is about 75 million per year. [[The president calls.]] By moving the collection to electronic media, we would save about 75 million in window mails from a government fund collector. And if we consider the overall delivery of the Kingdom, we can save by e - mailing 500 million a year. That's where we're headed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u46	Mr. President. I thank the advocate for this need for this discussion and the highest. Minister for the answers. It is clear that the number of tourists in the past has increased dramatically, while 20% of the cutoffs were at the customs guard after a crash. The number of tourists, however, has increased hundreds of percent, and unfortunately the customs service has not improved the cutoffs previously performed or given the necessary financial resources. Thus, the pressures of the Cheflavor airport are more than modest because of the growth of tourists, but also because of the tremendous number of imports in recent years. Security has been received, especially with regard to mail and rapid mails. This certainly means a huge loss of income for the state. Yes, losing income. With regard to organized crime, we must agree that during the influx of criminals, a firm response must be made. In order to achieve that, border protection must be active, border protection which may then have a better view of the individuals who come here on the EEA Convention and Schengen as well as the products of the groups. Sadly, because of the above cuts, we have also greatly neglected this as well as other infrastructure. So we are in the trouble we now find ourselves in. Similarly, the technology and computer equipment of the customs watch is that we too will be there with a large amount of money. For some reason, the collection program has thus been greatly neglected, both in customs and in tax, and apparently, with the knowledge and will of the government. The reason has been said that tolls and goods were largely decommissioned, so it is clear that in what may be considered tax control, the government fund is not just to fall from millions but to hundreds of millions. Possibly billions. Except for the security show. Mr. President. This is a clear political decision, and you wonder who will benefit from being monitored by border, customs, and taxes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u47	A respectable president. I want to thank the advert for the discussion. As we have seen, in recent years the pressures of customs have greatly increased. It is enough to mention the squares and fives of tourists in the last decade. But there are growth pains that we feel in all our society. We hear the same story from the police, from the road generation, from the health system, all the infrastructures are stretched to the limit in order to cope with the tremendous flow of tourists that have come in recent years. A man is wondering how we might be able to cope with these changes, even though we have added customs, as shown by the minister's case. It is something that we could look into in broad context, how the government can deal with unexpected circumstances and dramatic social developments without taking a decade to get to drift. For us a government fund friend, a customs manager is a particularly good institution, for he is going through most of the state's income. It is therefore a big matter of interest that the surveillance is strong and that it is strong. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir didn't say it's in the public's best interests to weaken this check. Because I'm falling at a time, I have to mention that, in particular, thanks to the advocate of speaking the toll manager's case, because he seems to be in some way the most accomplished office to carry his grief quietly. I don't remember him showing up to a trust board and asking for more money or what it is, but at the same time, he is one of the State's exemplary institutions, even appearing. in that he was a research institution of equal remuneration. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] He puts forth effort to progress in his work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u48	A respectable president. Thank you for the opening man of this discussion. In a speech or two. A senator came up with interesting numbers that I must admit I had not heard before, but maybe I did not end up in a particular case. I think it comes up a lot, maybe not often, but at least from time to time, that it's rather obvious an application by putting more money on something. This seems to be a very clear example of this in the case of all who know better than I do, including the incident. Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson and the highest. Secretary of finance. I also have to remind you that this will occur regularly with the head of the government; we're not discussing that office here, but there's a similar point there, which is that the first thing that goes, if there's not enough money, is surveillance. When the funding of such institutions is not well established, the first thing to go is an increase in income. In my opinion, we can't necessarily think about these institutions so that we can finance them properly. We need to consider whether we are losing money by not financing it with just the right amount. This is just a different question than whether the government's insurance agency has enough or the police or something like that; the police may be a bad example, I don't know. But I feel that we need to think about money and human resources just a little different from what we usually do. If we see that with the growth of staff, we get more money from the public box from the fees we've decided to take, of course we should. I think the reason why it doesn't happen as much as you would think is because we're thinking the funding of these institutions in the same way that the institutions that don't have the same laws for the acquisition of the state.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u49	V.E.G. President. First, I want to thank the advocate of this need for this discussion. It is obvious that the environment and work of the customs guard have changed in a short period of time, both because of the large import and exports of the human population, not only by foreign tourists, but also by their own citizens. Do I have a record of simply drowning in customs mail? Energy varies from country to country and from time of year. Increased flights to Akureyri call e.g. monitoring is recommended. That's what it says. Yet, humans have adapted to new circumstances, and many have succeeded. In the East, I know that good cooperation between police and customs has led to great success. There are well - trained people who work at ferry payment, people with decades of experience. It can be noted that in Sufficiency, people have recently stopped large drug shipments. It's probably the biggest drug business. Despite a lack of equipment, which would certainly be better, customs and police workers, in cooperation with the Faeroes and Dani, have done well. They feel that they have a good grip on the projects, but like the highest level, they may be thinking about reinvoking equipment. The minister stopped here earlier. That's fine. What I want to call attention to, however, is a lack of drug dogs. They have proved themselves to be the best tool in seeking drugs. At the beginning, each dog takes a considerable amount and is not simple to keep these creatures. A person who accepts this requires a lot of responsibility and is actually on duty 24 hours a day. The work is intertwined into his whole life. Happily, though, there are people who want to do that. Every dog is expensive, but I think it's worth every dollar. Surely we can do better in this regard, and we can always use our resources, and we need to do so. So let us also maintain that all over the country good work is being done.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u50	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you for the gift of speech. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's eutrophication of the needs of customs care activities. I'm going to come to a few points in my speech, I don't know if I have time to hang on to everything. First, though, there is the cooperation between police and customs. All right. The cooperation is good in the East, I hear members of the council. Is there a special basis for commendation? Isn't it good enough elsewhere? I would've thought it was easy. What was it like in the past when the customs guard was under the police chief? Not many years ago. So how was it? So, then, did some special cooperation have to be made? I'm not measuring up to be that way again, but I'm just asking: Is it okay if it's possibly under a police officer in the outback? I'm not talking about the Reykjavík area. I'm going to throw this ball into the air if people say that there's a particular need for special cooperation, whether it's time to go back to some extent in terms of that, if this is a special occasion for commendation. Another thing I want to talk about is that customs and police activities overlap in many ways. That supports what I was saying. Of course it is, like at Keflavour Airport. There was a very good teamwork when it was all under one hat. Regarding the utilization technique, topv. Secretary of finance. They talk here like it's something new. It's nothing new, because I remember years ago that technology had come to dissuade container and vehicles. I'm asking the highest. Secretary of finance: Is it really so today that this has not yet come to use for customs? Is that so? To hire people from unemployment records to promote customs collections. [[The president calls.]] I don't think there's such a smart idea for a saying, simply because it's a very specialized job. I don't know if people have unemployment records can actually throw themselves right into that work on a short notice. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u51	The president apologized that he did not begin to call until the senator had arrived five seconds past the speech time, but he now continued for 20 seconds afterwards. At the same time, the president wants to court the senators to respect their speaking lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u52	A respectable president. Like others, I want to thank the advisor for raising our interest in customs. He has a fixed line, which most people here have probably agreed that needs to tighten and increase surveillance. That's the line. There seems to be a perpendicular line for most of those who have spoken up here in the hall. Based on this, it would seem that what all Icelanders agreed on, more and more customs, more customs involvement with their lives would be what would add happiness to their daily lives. I'm not sure that's necessarily the case. I am, for example. Part of the Facebook group called Records of Customs. There are times when you can read a slightly different approach to these matters than those mentioned here. People there are often describing certain concerns and problems that may come with excessive supervision, sometimes with absurd supervision, on small mail deliveries that reach the country. It often follows, and people have wondered why it does not necessarily improve the management process in increasing its population. Sometimes that's the case. Sometimes it is not that many officials may call for improvement. Sometimes the opposite happens. Of course there are many things in this, I'm not going to impregnate all of them, but I don't think it's necessarily so, like, cot. paritaprevir The Hrafn Gunnarsson Helgi claims that it is automatically so that if we put more money on surveillance, it will all come back. I think that once we get to this place in the ideologies, it's often about that we're not getting it right, because most people want to go to law and want to pay their dues right. If we begin to take action only to collect the fees, we should simplify things, usually much earlier in the process. I think the best way would be if Iceland somehow got involved in a big toll union close to us. Then we could, for example. Got a lot of mail deliveries here without going through a particular difficult arrangement. I can think of one such thing, which is quite close, with half a billion people, but I'm not going to argue that I'm just going in there, for a longer time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u53	Mr. President. First, I want to thank you for this discussion. It's very important. First, I want to direct my case to customs status at Keflavík Airport. Ten years ago, there were passengers passing through the airport one and a half million. Today, about 10 million passengers travel the field. There are 15 countries and 100 destinations. It is obvious that this tremendous increase in passengers makes everything involved in customs monitoring more extensive and time - consuming. This calls for increased human resources, especially due to diagnostic work that is very important in customs. Work on a passenger list has taken a lot of time, and as noted, not all lists of people are available. In addition, the rules required by airlines to give up passenger lists need to be sharpened, but this has been a failure. In the same way, growth in cargoes and bullet shipments has been very high in a few years. In 2013 about 5,000 deliveries were delivered a month. Today, the delivery is about 5,000 per week, and in general transmissions, it has reached 8,000,9,000 a week. Understandably, only a fraction of these shipments can be checked, and it is important to increase cooperation with the fast-passing companies in these materials. As mentioned earlier, a large increase in the number of passengers calls for extra housing for customs. Today's customs - security facility at the Cheflavík Airport is less than ten years ago. It is important to ensure that the customs receive the facilities they need for the planned enlargement at the airport. At the airport, we have to work for customs dogs. They too would need to be increased. Drug dogs have a lot of preemptive value. However, there is no need for dog policy, especially personal surveillance, but this is an important part of customs control. Then finally, I want to talk about the personnel business. The re-education of customs guards is very important. In this regard international cooperation is needed for education. Finally, Mr. President. Keep in mind that 1% of the tax collections return 5 billion to state funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u54	A respectable president. Thank you. Councilmen for starting this discussion. I think there is much that can be done to improve the efficiency and better the work of customs, which has been successful in growing time. These include increased cooperation, organization, and development, and the use of technology. We also need to consider whether there are laws and rules that could be considered in order to improve the quality of our lives. I'd love to if it was the highest. A minister would have information on how to ease customs. And if not, what has been done? Tolls and goods have been taken off on a large scale. It must have changed something. To some extent, its import increased so that it may well have weighed back. But cooperation with law enforcement is the most important thing. I think we should look at massive planning changes, set up border law enforcement, and so increase the cooperation between customs and the police. I'd like to take one thing out of which it's been mentioned before today, i.e. Drug-dogs. I challenge the customs authorities to cooperate with the police, and I go so far as to mention cooperation with the Northern Police Department on how to cooperate and build up the vital functions of police, customs, and prison authorities. With the expressores and the mass shipments, I think there's still a pot broken about using technology and the automatic use of that surveillance. How can you change that? We also need to know if any minimum amount of money needs to be raised. I think it's extremely important that bullet shipments depend on such a name, that old customs does not delay.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u55	Mr. President. I would like to start by thanking the advocate for this important discussion. Clearly, customs and, of course, all of us are important. I don't know if everyone realizes how extensive customs work is, but it's been done pretty well here. Of course, it is not only to make sure that we Icelanders do not take too much of our lips through the customs gate at Cheflavík; rather, it is to ensure much of their income and to seek drugs, weapons, drugs, counterfeit goods, and other things. In this context, it is often forgotten that there are more openings in the country than there are in Keflavík alone. That is especially true, such as a beard. paritaprevir Þórunn Egilsdóttir entered, a customs guard in connection with the arrival of Nornoria, to the land of France, which is important for further support. Although it is easy to say that we need not worry too much about customs security in Iceland, since we live on an island and therefore relatively simple to protect us, it is clear that with an increasing number of tourists and increased traffic to the country, there is certainly reason to strengthen and secure strong law enforcement and customs in this country. That's where I'm laughing, like a whole lot more snorkels. Councilmen have come in, specifically showing the importance that customs and police officers have to appoint well - trained, well - trained, well - established drug dogs. So I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity and just ask a minister if there's no room to ensure extra funding for training and for the development of dog groups of customs and law enforcement.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u56	Mr. President. In the beginning, I want to thank you for what I said. paritaprevir Sæmundsson for bringing up the subject. As the members of Congress know, customs and collectors are an old profession, and they even got space in the oldest texts, both Icelandic and foreign. In modern times, however, their role is complex and has changed considerably. In addition to the ongoing growth of the aircraft, ships, and tourists, the same factor may be less often needed to provide tax pay for fishing ships that sail with resources and such. I want to emphasize the role of the customs service because it is extremely important and becomes more important. Of course, monitoring is also a part of this, but it is a service in itself. In addition to the provision of environmental taxes, there are other factors that can help to promote tourism and help tourists and services in their home country. This could be of great importance to the development of tourism, and this would help us to equal the situation in the parts of the country. Hv. paritaprevir Sæmundsson came in earlier that he was willing to bet at the highest. Ministers like one bag of chocolate raisins on whether it could not be improved significantly and to the point of achieving significant benefits. So I decided to get me one of those bags, which I will bring to the senator at the end of my talk for the preservation and preservation of him and the highest. Then a minister can share it with him when and if any things are done.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u57	A respectable president. At times, there are discussions that continue to increase the discussion. I'd like to take under the main dryer of that as easily as possible. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek said earlier. I think it's a view that we may be inclined to forget here at the Council, at least Certainly the one standing here, i.e. What things look like at the Council and what they look like to the citizen. I just don't have much experience in moving things into the country, so I don't have much contact with customs in general in my everyday life, so I don't know the trouble at all. A senator mentions. However, I would like to state in the afternoon's talk that although we might be inclined to believe that customs should not be as high as they are or not as many, or not even above their heads, I still feel that what we decide to do should be done and finance it to the full. By the way, I don't care about the police. I'm against some authority that the police actually have. I'm against the way she behaves sometimes. I am, for example. We've got too little police surveillance to deal with. On the other hand, I want enough officers. I want them to get paid properly. I want them to be well educated. I want what we decide to do to be properly financed so that it will accomplish its purpose. Besides, I may have an opinion that the role itself should be something else. I have, for example. deep hate for customs basically, but I think it's important that the customs we decide to collect are collected. If they're not collected because the office is underdeveloped, I feel that we should finance it better. Even at the same time, I believe that a tax collector should be different or that it should simply be smaller. I would also like to state that there is a relatively wide range of surveillance. This refers to the lack of drug dogs. That's where we're accessing the part of law that I personally find in my more unpleasant side, but as I say, it's not necessarily about financing, it's about how we like to keep things. These are two different questions, though they are certainly related. But I appreciate it. Pawel Bartoszek's senator for his input into the discussion. It is interesting and well worth listening to.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u58	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for the gift of speech. paritaprevir Sæmundsson for this discussion on customs care and customs manager's office. He knows this sect well, I know it, and he's been concerned with it. When it comes to the protection of citizens, government systems, and infrastructure, safety is not the least of the safety concerns of strong law enforcement and customs. We can say that the border watch is our first defense. In the discussion, it has been observed that the transport of people and products is increasing and the work is more complex in recent times. Of course, there is a constant need to evaluate the person's needs. The parameters need to be taken into account. To meet the increased need for cross-border equipment and cooperation with the police, we need to work with them. There's been some things that have been done. V.E.G. The minister of finance did well. There's been an increase in human life. I allowed myself to peer a little, and the Agency took on as many other organizations as possible in the crash process, which has been greatly added in recent years. It's very balanced. It's a well-endowed office. This is clearly shown in numbers. Of course, it takes time to define our issues and needs. In the past five years, for example, a new toll system was placed on a billion people who were evenly scattered.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u59	Mr. President. This is an interesting discussion and need. I'd like to agree with the highest. The secretary of finance when he became a representative of a policy and project with a customs manager that was being discussed with better use of funds and the risk assessment of projects and reviewing processes. I think we have to do this. I would also like to commend the customs manager's office for making it appear rather available to me in policy-making and in its operations. In terms of customs care, I think it's very important that we have a great deal of close cooperation with our international sisters'institutions, especially in Europe. I would also like to point out that toll manager is a natural tax collector of the state and has a very extensive task there. We have collected laws in the country, and we can mention that according to a report published by the EEA's Group on rising economic benefits, for suggestions on changing in various tax matters, the collection of days of toll managers is 269 in the year. There are ideas of reducing them to twelve. I think that would be interesting. And even record payment distributions in connection with it. I think that's a very good suggestion to save mail costs and usually the expense of everyone coming. Finally, I'd like to mention a little delivery and an encasement around them. I think the minimum amount to fall down to get to run through is 2,000 bucks. Everyone sees that these are not very valuable products. I think this may be raised substantially, and at last it might be shown how much profit there would be around imports of various kinds that we would ask the European Union if we could at least become members of their supplementary tax system and adopt a common system on the extravasation of value taxes in the European Economic Area for us. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u60	V.E.G. President. I thank you for this conversation and for the many encouragement she has received, both in words and in fastings. Thank you for the premeditated minister of what has been discussed here. I hear a good mind a minister of the seminary. Toll boss's office is an enormously well - equipped position, has always been, and is exemplary. It has always adapted to the circumstances that exist at one time. This does not change that we too should be supporting that office to the extent possible. I realize you're absolutely right. Secretary of finance said that collecting is in itself excellent. Of course, it depends on an economic situation at a time. Nevertheless, I make clear that each percentage of them is precious. And we might also need to consider whether a customs manager could get additional sources to negotiate with people who are even having trouble paying their fees, etc. There is a possibility that we could correct here, which could become both a state's funds and the relevant funds. V.E.G. The secretary of finance said that there was a significant increase in financial growth in the budget. I'm glad. I would have chosen that the minister of finance would bring it forward now so that we could just be convinced of it from the first hand. But I understand there's a delay. But if this is really going to be the case, then I guess there's not much work left, and I look forward to a minister taking a step and performing the plan. Finally: Yes, technology was said to be a permanent project. That's right. But what I'd like to draw out is that such technology is an enormously expensive technology, so there needs to be a huge plan on how you want to renew it and also because equipment is making rapid progress and we need to have the best technology each time. [[The president calls.]] Finally, I want to reiterate what I said earlier. Toll managers are an extremely well - employed position, the man - made position, and the people work hard and hard. Thank you so much for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u61	A respectable president. We have been in this discussion with many aspects of Iceland's customs managership that are changing all the time. It has been mentioned here that the use of network stores has greatly increased, and I think that we have least overrated that change, but it has actually become a complete revolution in commercial trades, and it knows most families in the country how the Internet store has become like a self - righteous part of life in the younger generation in particular, and all of which affects the amount of shipments that come into the country. It's one thing. The rest are the tourists, the third are the drugs that have also come on the program. Then it is the collection factor and technology, international cooperation, all of these are key elements of the customs manager's activities, which have been shown to be successful in changing the way of the changed time. There have been questions about some aspects of the operation, such as what is standing before us regarding the training of drug dogs or the purchase of technical equipment and the like. I just have to refer to the policy that goes past the customs manager on that matter. We've had communication that involves the cooperation of the police and customs and therefore the border guard and customs. This is especially true since we need to show increased support in the coming budget plan for the future because both the international requirements and the position on our borders call for it. I feel that this has been an upbuilding and urgent discussion, and I thank you for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u62	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Travel, industrial and innovation ministers for participating in this discussion with me. I have hoped that this will be an interesting and hopefully a useful discussion about the welcome of cruise ships to Icelanders. In recent years, there has been a large growth in Icelandic tourism, a fact that has gone by few people. However, one of the biggest growths has been in connection with the arrival of cruise ships into the country, but since 1989 passengers with cruise ships that visit Iceland have increased from 7,010 to 115,565 in 2017. It is estimated that some 128,000 cruise crews return to Iceland this year, and it may be fun to assume that 37 ships are being received to the Germian Islands for the next summer. Although the growth of cruise vessels has naturally been accompanied by growth in their activities, the pressures of visitors'visitors'visited areas are increasing. Often, these are multiplicity places, and it can be said that infrastructure is simply blown up on large orders. It can put pressure on certain destinations as well as tension between different types of tourism. It may be quite stressful for even small communities to get their own ships, where the number of passengers is greater than the population of the local population. Also, I must give examples of ships even letting passengers in the country outside and in some cases into delicate territory. Although the sound of pollution from cruise ships has been loud, in spite of the fact that all ships at the docks are obliged to use electricity from land instead of sea fuel if possible, the situation is simply that the distribution of electricity systems in Iceland is not prepared to perform such services in Icelandic ports and is aware that the rejections have absolutely no chance of funding the agriculture of large vessels without the significant access of the state, something we must consider seriously. I'd like to draw attention to what Akureyri has been doing to support this, but the harbor is now a deforestation campaign in cooperation with Akureyri Town, Vistor and the Emiramism Forest Company, which is paid for 2,000 trees a year because of the city's cruises, as well as the passengers offered to pay for their share in the release. I know more harbors have been doing this. There are other positive things. In 2014, a survey of Cruise Iceland revealed that the average passenger waste due to an eight - hour stop was 79 euros, but it can be expected that by 2017 visits, cruise ships left between 758 billion in this country and created some 300 full - time jobs. The government receives tax revenues in the form of knowledge fees and tax payments, ports from docks and services, ship service agents and tourism companies plan to travel and bus companies, and tourism workers arrive at their destinations. There's more to it than that. Mr. President. There is a lot of concern about the construction of tourism in Iceland, but I think there is a reason to give special attention to cruiseers, which may include many opportunities to welcome them, but also many things we can learn from the experience in other countries that we may need to avoid. Recently, the results of a new study from the research center of tourism were presented on the welcome of cruise ships in Northern America. The report shows that ships are faced with challenges, and it is clear that countries and communities need to succeed. The results show that receivers and services call for more clear information on the direction and direction on the flow of the ships, and they realize that more detailed policies and regulations have to be put in place for the visits of cruise ships and services to their passengers in this country. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if there are any preparations in the Ministry to make a rule on the visits of these ships and services to their passengers in the country, as well as on whether a minister intends to use his policy on the emissions of cruise ships that visit Iceland, or if the ships are at the docks, and as I came to see if we don't have to assist the rejections to enable them to do this. Actually, I'd like to come into that relationship, since I have just a little more time, that there are certain ideas of using a different source of energy than necessarily the hydropower, e.g. Methanas can be used to drive some kind of light machine. There are all kinds of ideas. I think there's a chance for Iceland to be a bit early in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u63	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. For the discussion of this important subject, a senator may have been left behind in a government conversation and the article on the priorities of tourism. This does not mean, however, that the matter is not of concern, especially in certain areas. At the party of cruises on the right way? The challenges we Iceland faces in connection with the arrival of cruise ships in the country were discussed on April 3 and 4 of the following year. That's where I talked, even. the fundamental question that is important to ask answers to a fundamental overall policy on whether and how Iceland is going to develop tourism in connection with the coming of cruise ships. As we know, the number of tourists will increase over the next few years and decades in general. This need to be considered. Investment of the state and community and private partners must contribute to the long-term sustainability of the article. By sustainability, I mean not only that we need to protect nature but also that we need to consider social limits. We may be able to protect the natural environment for considerable more tourists with the proper infrastructure and infrastructure. But to me, social factors are even more complex subjects, and the range of resistance may be lower than in nature. They are just as important and sometimes more difficult to treat. I'm happy to say that there is a report on the tolerability of tourism in the next few days that I will report to the General. This report carefully reviews not only natural boundaries but also social and repeated issues that arise in discussions about them. So there will be the review of cruise ships. These factors are precisely considered when we discuss the cruise ships. Their destinations are more often than not small communities with different opportunities to receive the massive influx of tourists. Over the past year, governments have emphasized measures to better distribute tourists throughout the year. It is important to reduce stress from other areas, just as a few areas will benefit more fully from the benefits of tourists. That's what we all agree on. But things are never that simple. The next summer, as many as eight thousand passengers from cruise ships will be on the island. It claims that such days test everyone's endurance; passengers, servants, and the town itself. The interiors of the region are simply not prepared for that number, and they are not necessarily due to the size of rural society. Therefore, it is important that the decision be made to stress the market that aims to attract a foreign cruise ship and that all people are aware of the challenges it brings. For example, it is important to look to safety, e.g. on the risk of pollution accidents, disease, and accidents, to name just a few. It also needs to be noted that, like wind, ground travel rules need to be shaped. A senator came in. That's where I own, for example. We are traveling by passengers in a peaceful country on Horn Beach, which may be the case with the U.S. not normal if it is e.g. in opposition to the EEA's recommendations. Hence, it is important to set clear rules and to define responsibilities. Here, government, rural society, and other stakeholders must come to the table and have informed conversation where the local view must weigh very seriously. In general, in Iceland's pollution legal history, the rule is that ships may burn black oil with sulphur content to a maximum of 3.5%. On February 22 of the past, Iceland's contract went into effect on the 6th MARPOL Convention on Air pollution from ships. The government's treaties say that black oil is forbidden in Iceland's economic legal history. This is a very important goal for the protection of the north. So since 2020, it is not possible to use black oil unless ships are prepared for cleaning equipment sufficient for sulphur content to exceed 0.5%. Also, I would like to mention specifically that the making of cruise ships is very aware of environmental issues and is increasingly renewing their fleet. The arrival of cruiseers is a challenge. It is called for a clearer setting. Clearly, there are many interests and decisions, so it is not only in my power to make the next move. But I welcome this important discussion, which hopefully will help us to grasp the different actions of different peoples who will be subject to the success of cruiseers all over the country because, of course, this is a great opportunity. And as we know, cruiseers often arrive in areas that today do not yet enjoy the growth of tourism in this country. Hence, it is only natural for them to want the ships to come to them. However, we need to be thoroughly informed of the challenges involved, and it is important that all of us agree that this is the way we want to go. I'll allow me to bring it into the details of my later answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u64	Mr. President. I thank the advert for taking the reception of cruise ships for a discussion at the council, and thank you very much. Minister for his entrance here. In the leading end of the last election, the Central Party proposed a policy called Iceland, with a view to the country all over the country for further policy in all litigation groups. That's also true in plans for the arrival of cruise ships. In a recent address to the harbor master of Northern Ireland, Pétur Ólafsson said that he wanted to have a vision of distributing the land's pressures and trying to market it as a whole, making it possible for us to receive more smaller ships. They gain more ports, and others benefit, and the whole country needs to be considered. Since the rejection law usually has large and smaller ports, this would be most useful in building smaller ports. There are some challenges. It's the distribution system, so we need to get some e.g. The approach of the State to accept subsidies, we need funding, and, in turn, the ships, or those who design these ships, are considering different sources of energy. I think there are over 90 ships now on the drawing table, with particular attention to environmental energy issues. I can see here on my magazine, which is very interesting, that there will be 300 full-time jobs all over the country. This means that the land will benefit from it, which is most important.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u65	Mr. President. I thank the Prime Minister for this fine discussion. In recent years, the number of tourists in general has increased dramatically to the country. These trends are both opportunities and challenges, and it is certainly important that countries and rural groups and all other stakeholders come to secure the infrastructure and the future order of this task. The growth and management of travelers from cruise vessels need to be in the best terms of society, and the best use of employment opportunities and the growing number of secondary jobs. Service to a cruise ship is an important source of income for many ports and has been at odds with the loss of income, for example. Lowering markets and improving the status of the waterfronts, which make sure that cruise ships arrive at their ports. For example, 110 cruise ships have been proclaiming their arrival in Isafjörður during the summer, and it is long since time to improve the harbor and meet minimum security requirements. It needs, for example. to get a more powerful tugboat to serve the cruise ships. The same can be said of other ports, such as. in Gundars, where they are trying to make more of the harbor's income. Since the oceans are defined as part of transport construction, they have been overcrowded for far too long, it is vital that a policy of transportation reflects the cumulative need in many parts of the country. I agree that it is important that countries and rural areas and other stakeholders come to the conclusion that a more efficient policy and order is being built on this article. The growth has been rapid and must hold hands with the development and structure, and at the same time, we must be careful to get along with tourists in the environment. We need to electricalize the harbors, build up the article to the future with sustainable guidance.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u66	Mr. President. I wanted to start by thanking you. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Flandish the Elíasdóttir of Elias for starting this discussion and a fine answer from the highest. Secretary of travel. Yeah, it's turned. I don't like parties and bans, and I don't think it's very difficult to limit it, or even control, the arrival of a cruise ship, and it's hard to plan into the uncertainty. Of course, the South Coast is more and less sealess, so these ships go most in the western part of the country and then north. I've also heard from tourists that these are not the most popular tourists. They are different from those who come by flight, they often simply cross to the ship again to eat and shop small, so they may not be the most popular. It's very complicated, and I'm glad they're working on it. I'd like to take a special look at the air pollution. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy and Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson asked about the sixth Amendment of the MARPOL Convention in particular. I'm concerned about both the use of black oil and maybe the inability of the government to build up the electric transport and distribution systems in order to make it possible for us to demand that a cruise ship in the country use this clean energy. Then it comes to that as soon as we validate this appendix and bring in policy, plan and organization, they are in exactly the lack of funding. It is determined to do something, but money is not involved, so it is not done. I have to express my concern about this, both the electronic energy system and the monitoring that the 6th Annex of the MARPOL Convention will be followed because it is obvious that there is no more money to be run properly. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I assume she'll be one of the primary inspectors. I encourage societies, independent rural areas, and the highest. Secretary of travel to the fore.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u67	The president insists that the senators respect speech class. This bell bell was the invitation of a senator named Pirata.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u68	A respectable president. Thank you. For this fine and essential discussion, Elíasdóttir the Fräldur the daughter of Elijah greatly spoke. It is filled with points that would be interesting to go deeper in this time. I'd like to start by taking under a dot like that. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir brought about the importance of maintaining the land's ports better than they do. There are many pots that are broken, and I would especially like to emphasize them because they are natural among many of the countries and are important for rejections, especially for safety. With regard to pollution, I was just investigating the subject for the discussion today because the discussion is somewhat in the way that the cruise ships are making a lot of noise, so we need to react. I hear that we, both Ministers and senators, have spoken and have been quoted from travel reports and other sources, agree that we need to improve the order around the cruises. We don't argue about that. I ran into a report on the EEA's website from September 7th, 2017. I'd like to read the story a little bit, with the permission of a president. It says: ▪ During media interviews, it has been suggested that a cruise ship has a legal authority to burn black oil around the country. That's not the case. It is true that they can burn either diesel or gas oil, and since the latter is much more expensive, diesel is primarily being consumed at sea. On the other hand, when cruise ships are at the docks, the oil can only be burned there and, in fact, reach all ships. In fact, rules recommend that ships use electricity in such situations, can be handled. The EEA is regularly provided with information from the national ports on fuel ships to come to sea, with no evidence to suggest that the ships are burning black oil at the docks, since it is illegal, as stated earlier. Further, this report shows that the EEA will soon initiate the monitoring of fuel use by ships. But I will come back in speech and discuss other things.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u69	A respectable president. I thank the prime speaker for her excellent tour of this very important subject, which are the cruise ships that come to us home. The fact is, we are now expecting some 100,000 tourists. There is a resource in it, a respectable president, that so many people choose to attend our country on cruise orders. This year, they will be in the range of 90 to 95 if the corpses, according to a report published last year. The fact is, last summer's survey of pollution was conducted in exactly that the ships are down here at the docks, speaking of in the city of Reykjavík. It was said that in one day, such a ship was polluted with as much as 10,000 cars. So the principle seems to be that, and what's being done in the world and taking care of the environment, is to get a nerve ashore so that these ships can use electricity. That's exactly what we have to do here. As soon as we welcome the industry that our tourist industry is and in this form, passengers with cruise ships, and as soon as we try to do what we can to spread them all over the country, we should not listen to the fact that it is too expensive to get electricity to the ships by having a nerve in the country, just not at all. A respectable president. I say, let's try to do everything we can to be happy that we have a cruise ship on the docks and not be sad that each of them has 10,000 cars in 24 hours.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u70	Mr. President. I read an article the other day. The intake of this article was in a way that would certainly be fun to see how many tourists had arrived in the country, that they made their country alive, and that they made their income, but would it not have reached the limit of endurance? This article I read on magazine. It was 1960. Then there were tourists in Iceland about as many people as were mentioned here to visit Isafjörður in one day. Maybe we'll see how relative this is. It will be fun to ask ourselves, " Will I remember the discussion here, such as a fairy tale one day, or whether it's going the opposite?'We will wonder why we have counted this number of people that are so great today. We'll see about that. It is customary in such special discussions that members of Congress come and express a keen interest and a comprehensive knowledge of the subject. I'm not going to make up the latter, but I thank the senator for giving me a review of this subject, and I read the report quoted in the literature that was sent out from the research center of tourism. It was there, for example. One thing that interested me, what was the only factor that would determine whether a travel service company would take tourists and cruise ships to a particular place, that would be done around one thing. It was the toilet. So it's part of number one that determines whether or not they're taking a organized trip to one place and not another, which is now a bit striking. Another thing that caught my attention in this report is that there's a bit of a system around who it is that organizes the trips, whatever it is as a book, a bit more elaborate than you expect. This may have been built up a little by the market. It's something I've been thinking about sometimes, because it's often called for a whole-scale policy, and who's going to be against it. Sometimes things can happen without government involved. All I ask for as soon as it becomes part of making a rule is that it will be international not to inhibit the fine industry that has been built up here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u71	A respectable president. Last summer, the Aclinus cruise ship Le Boree received a welcome from the Fax Seas and the people of Aranesp. It was the only cruise ship that docked in my hometown that summer, and it's a wish that they'll become more people, since there is good port and the town's choice to wander around. By getting more cruise vessels to Aclin's, you can also point the current up to the city's fun and closer forces with their natural beauty, history sites, and beautiful farms. But the preparation and development for this type of tourism does not happen overnight, and there is no fear that people will risk ports in smaller areas of the country, such as electricity or other, if it is not known if the cruise vessels will be available in small places and that will be a permanent part of their town life. These matters must naturally be in order; the ships will not come to us if such matters are not in order. Maybe then we'll come to the little man's role. We need fire - resistant faith in our community and are willing to find opportunities there. Then I mean building in small places, finding what's attractive in every community and making something of it. And I'd like to come in to the Ac Aranesp and the man who has had a major part in the construction of Aranesp. We have one of those guys who was considered crazy to be dragging people to the old lighthouses on the British River, but that area has taken quite a change, and thanks to that man. This place attracts tourists and local residents all year round, and yesterday five 60 - man buses came to inspect the lighthouse. It is wish that people around the country would contribute to their communities and closer to the environment, both for domestic and foreign tourist attractions and listen to them individually, and we would be brief to them so that we could get more cruise ships into these small communities.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u72	Mr. President. Thank you for your fine discussion. A senator is coming into the council. It's part of the overall context when discussing tourism in the country. How important it is that we have a real conference program on what we will do about this article! When we talk about tourism in Iceland over the past few years, environmental factors, to some extent, have been focused on economic factors. I have often talked about a considerable lack of the economic debate. But the social feature is something that needs to be handled in a much more targeted way, and we now see wide and wide that infrastructures are being tested. We need to discuss it further. The vast majority of passengers are bringing cruise orders to Reykjavík, Akureyri and Isafjörður. Relatively, based on local rural size, the number of cruisers is more than 50 times the town of Isafjörður (U.S.) per year. In Reykjavík, the population is crowded with a pair, and in Akureyri it may be six times the population of the town. It's the size. We're hearing the most of Iceland today. These things are the most complaining of all. Landlinks have been widely discussed. The little ships take a 21⁄23 megawatt. It is possible to get on, but the big ships need 10, 15 or even more megawatts. For example, if there is a large ship port in Akureyri, the use of electricity is similar to that of local homes and businesses, just to put it into context. This is the largest industry in the world. She's the biggest one in Iceland. To be honest, it would be fun to have a deeper discussion. I see the two minutes are up, and I never started. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] This is awesome. It would be interesting to have a better discussion on these matters. The situation in Iceland has become so much more important to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u73	V.E.G. President. I thank you for this discussion and thank the advocate of Albertína, the Elíasdóttir of Elisabra, and the minister of the seminary for being present. I singled out that a minister spoke of this discussion, policy, and so forth, around a cruise ship that had come to rest in the country. That is exactly what we need to pick up and put first, or perhaps not first, but rather along with others. As the last speaker mentioned, I wholeheartedly agree with him that the discussion is often in a narrow field when we are talking about tourist service in general, but the environment is often at the top of the magazine, not a lot of talk about economic or social issues, but all of which should be equally concerned. This is a great supply for the land, which is in the land, to receive these ships to himself. Like what? paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir arrived at the Central Party's policy in the election, strengthening the country. There are three main ports, i.e. Reykjavík, Iceland and Akureyri, taking most of them and the largest ships. Less harbors have been taking smaller ships. From where I come, from the Brefuding, i.e. We'll have 24 ships in the summer, and about 70 people have requested to come, but the dock point doesn't offer it. It needs to be added. The same is true in Gundars. They wait for a longer edge to receive two ships at a time. [[The president calls.]] Two minutes are passing very quickly, so I'm going to say thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u74	Mr. President. I appreciate the advisor and Minister for this discussion. We are here discussing an important part of the tourism program, which, while controversial, results in a number of different jobs and economic benefits. This is a peculiar feature of tourism because a number of tourists come to places at once, especially in ports outside of Reykjavík and Akureyri. I'm gonna get ahead of it. Of course, social pressures need to be examined and evaluated. Yes, they control shiphouses themselves. The pressures and assessments of the environment need to be examined locally and in broad contexts, and it needs to set out a natural and clear demand for emissions both within the Icelandic financial history of rejection. It requires ports of surveillance and the right electronic equipment. Let's go to the megawatts later. You also need to encourage communities who take cruise ships to aim the receptions at an adequate level at home, i.e. The inhabitants, and they must be encouraged by the tourism authorities and market agencies in order to distribute stress from cruise parties. This has been shown in the discussion. I just want to reiterate it. However, I would like to remind you of something that no one has ever been able to get into here, which is a rescue center needed in this country, because we may have a very serious problem if a shipwreck is due to the magnitude we might expect. It takes a very careful look at how we could do that. This must be an international rescue center. Finally, I'd like to welcome the carbon balance of Iceland's cruise parties and really believe that it should be a rule. Very good. Very good. Very good.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u75	A respectable president. December 12th. Send to Grönskjörg abduction of 2018's budgets. It requested that the State be in the setting of an approved port transport strategy. The review referred to the experts'assessment that the first part of the project was very important, since a certain time had to be extended before it was possible to continue, it was said that a pad would have to be removed. Then they were asked for 110 million. K. which was part of the State's work to meet its transport plans. But we all know in here that a transport plan was not funded. Although the funds and the responsibility of an approved budget are there, it is also the responsibility of the government to enforce the plans and conclusions of the General Assembly. A strategy is thus planned, and when the lack of financial transportation strategy came from the government, a body of agreements was not reached at a meeting to finance a transport program. Why am I talking about this in special discussions about cruise ships? Yes, you may have seen earlier in the discussion that some of the ways in which Gnarfjörður enters it. As if anyone could remember, it was reported in February. to welcome more cruise vessels than was expected to be a dock in a shelter because of the expansion of the harbor. Thus, the challenge of the increase in entertainment vessels is not only their growth, the pressures of electricity systems, the pressures of modern tourism, and the road, etc., but also the fact that organized expansion is not being achieved. A plan was made for the dock to be ready at that time, and then the town set up a schedule for receiving more ships. That did not work out, and it is also a problem we need to consider. So we need to consider both of them, to accept those who come and stick to our plans so that we can make plans for how many people we are going to accept.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u76	V.E.G. President. It's been a very good and informative discussion, but I've wondered if such a discussion would not have been better in my home. Environment Minister. There is also the possibility of taking just another comparable discussion to direct it to that minister, for there are many issues directly under that department. We're talking about pollution. And, of course, it also serves as the highest possible purpose. traveling minister i.e. I am excited to see the minister's report that she referred to in her case earlier. As I examined this matter, I came across a story from a story in VOLV of 31,07,2017. There's an interview with the chairman of the landowner's club at the Candret, Jón Pétursson. There he expressed his concern about the landing of cruise ships that carry lightboats to the country in peace - related areas. Actually, it has something to do with the customs talk here. However, Jón's case says that landowners in that area never received any request to cooperate with the owners of these ships. Jón also says that humans are deeply concerned about a pollution disaster in the region because all living things are naturally below them. I'd like to roll that over with the highest. Environment Minister, which is not currently here, but we may later record the plans for the protection programmes in certain areas that I see on the EEA website to be in progress, including On the Horn Beachs and the Candle of Death. I understand that such protective plans also include the arrival of cruise ships and their connection. And there is also a work at the Environment Ministry bill on new laws on nature protection that take control of tourism, taking into account public rights regulations. [[The president calls.]] I suppose there's a bill that will appear in the fall that we could all benefit from a careful review and discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u77	A respectable president. We're talking about a cruise ship. According to a report by the 2017 Research Centre, the President's permission is quoted as follows: It seems that the decision-making takes little place around the market or conducts a reception and service to a cruise ship in the region. And also: ▪ Commutations for arrival, residence times, and visits are on the hands of a shipmate. My greatest concern with the cruise ships is what we're going to do if there's an accident on a ship with three thousand people on the way into Isafjörður deep. We know that Italy had a huge accident in her day when the captain decided to take a little extra trip and turned the ship upside down. I'm asking, how are we in Iceland if something like that happens? I don't know what we're gonna do. Then there is another, the pollution from these ships. I once heard a discussion about technical overcommunications and can't really connect these ships to ports. I had just heard a discussion about another subject, and I thought it was just some joke. Then there was supposed to be no problem with an electrical cable, and it was supposed to be no problem. But connecting a ship to a port was a major problem. I think we just need to find a solution. The only funny thing about this is that the traffic of these little ships should not be controlled better because they seem to be doing better. They'll make more ports. In contrast, passengers from large ships fill their summer tourist attractions, causing enormous problems at Gold Falls and Geysi.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u78	Mr. President. Thank you. An opening man and a member of the council, Friðbjörg Frildur, the daughter of Elíasdóttir, for bringing up the matter. It is, as we have seen here, a lot of smells, and ends up with this discussion about the larger ships, which are increasingly enlarging here to the country and living at the ports of the country, usually for a short time at a local level. I understand that there are about 16 ports in Iceland that can take over ships, of course, very large, and that are the largest ports, and where most of the ships arrive in Reykjavík and Akureyri. According to what I know, last year some 130,000 passengers arrived in Reykjavík with such ships and in Akureyri about 110 thousand. These ships will be expected to increase. For example, the harbor authorities in Akureyri calculate that since receiving 110 thousand passengers in 2017, they will have reached at least 150 thousand in 2019 just next year. These numbers are high, and all these passengers and ships have risks of various kinds. This has been called pollution, land application, access to electricity, how it all works. I think this class is most important now to make sure that the basic needs of these passengers and passengers are cared for when people arrive at these places. Minimum service, minimum health care services, access to hygienic status and all of this, I think there are a lot of things to be done in this and not necessarily waiting for major policies, although it is in desperate need of travel services in Iceland, but there are many things that can be done immediately and must be done. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u79	Mr. President. First, I want to thank all of them. Council members who participated in this fine discussion, and especially the highest. Minister for her input. I especially welcome news of a travel - service report, and I eagerly look forward to studying its contents. Although I, like other members of Parliament, brought up in my previous talk certain problems and threats that may follow the cruise industry, I believe that there is an opportunity for the continuation of the development of international cruise services. On the other hand, we must be careful. In order for us to really take advantage of that opportunity, it is important that countries and rural groups take a course to welcome cruise ships in cooperation with stakeholders. Thus I believe that we can best support the article. I believe that it is important that we cope with possible problems before we reach environmental and social barriers. In short, let's change the threat to an opportunity before it becomes an irreversible problem and too big to solve it with strict rules and such. As I mentioned at the end of my talk earlier, we Icelanders have the opportunity to be exemplary when it comes to welcome cruises on the world. I really think we should be. I call to the president's attention that I left a little extra time to cope with those who overdue earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u80	Mr. President. Thank you so much. For this special discussion, a senator thank you for practical suggestions from the beginning. Councilmen who have spoken with us today. When it is called after a rule of visits to cruise ships and services for them, as presented here, some factors need to be considered. Then, again, the wide variety of forms of travel, its fragrance, and its rule - making work are spreading throughout the system of government. And the steps involved in action are unclear. We know that. It comes out over and over again. It is the nature of the tourism service and will remain. In many ways, a project on a cruise ship is a community matter where income from ships comes through the ports and rejects and sinks into the fund. It requires cooperation with local communities, and the environment and resource services and the EEA need to address environmental issues. I wanted to find out that the EEA is a long-term work in the first protection and management programme of these agents, e.g. About land on Horn Beach. It's very important. If there is an intervention request, e.g. Another matter that we need to consider is mass restrictions. I would rightly assume that such requests would come from the communities themselves. I think the rural communities themselves know best, so I should best be able to control the best way to do it without the media minister of travel unless specifically desired. I can make an informed impression that a group of members of the Cruise Iceland Group these days are looking at the limitations of the number of passengers and ships. I welcome this initiative from those who are doing so and who are putting their best interests at heart. Then we take it into the big picture of the general environmental, social, and economic challenges of tourism so that we can contribute to sustainable employment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u81	A respectable president. I recommend the Committee's Committee on Council Directives on confirmation of EU Commission decision to change because of technical regulations, standards, testing and certification and mental rights. The committee discussed the matter and found individuals in the plot. The types listed below wish for changes to the subject of paediatric medicinal products and are intended to induce increased drug testing in paediatric patients. It is then endeavored to promote the increase in production and development of such medicinal products by implementing this Regulation, increasing the availability of tested products and being authorised for the treatment of children. It is aimed at removing marketing inhibitions in the trade of medicinal products for the paediatric population and contributing to the increased initiatives of such products, facilitates application and reduces the marketing authorisation for the European Medicines Agency. It is also the length of time that medicines are protected by the software rights but the purpose of the Regulation is to ensure that products prepared for children will undergo a difficult scientific study course and receive a careful ethical review prior to launch. Medicinal products that have passed through this process will be marketed as a specialised product for use in children and thus be authorised. In addition, the Commission is authorized to specify further grounds for authorization to delay or complete the implementation of part of or all of the programme set out in a paediatric programme. The decision requires adjustment of the law, but it has to be changed on patents, No. 17/1191. The Commission suggests that the proposal will be accepted, but a further article is presented in the Committee on State Affairs. Under the opinion of Rósa Gunnarsdóttir Björk, Brynjólfsdóttir Sigri Silja, Dögg Eymarsdóttir, Bárísdótti Haraldsdóttir, Gunnar, and Shilg Djög Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u82	There have been four letters from the Minister of Justice asking for every request to give written answers to questions on the subject. 483, on the basis of the Commission's work, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, to a threshing floor. 428, of the Ministry's staff and of the institutions of the minister's case, of the Þriffstein of Sæmundsson, to the threshing floor. 398, on the recruitment of a minister driver, from Birni the Leví of Gunnarsson, and on a threshing floor. Thirty-eight, about the ministers' cars and drivers, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. Borist has two letters from the minister of foreign affairs asking for every request to give written answers to inquiries on the deck. 384, for the ministers and for the drivers, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson and for the threshing floor. 424, with members of the Ministry and ministers in the Ministry's Department of Affairs, from Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson. Three letters from the health minister have been sent at a request every time to provide a written answer to a covering query. 339 on the Western Institute for Health, number of annual jobs, and development of pay expenses, from Birgir Þórarinsson on deck. Four hundred and forty-three, government personnel, ministers and Ministers in the area of affairs, the Feldstein of Sæmundsson and the threshing floor. 379, about the ministers and drivers, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. A letter has been received from the social and equality minister where request is made to provide a written answer to a covering query. 429, for the personnel of the institutions of the seminaries minister, from Seystein, Sæmundsson. Finally, a letter has been received from the Environment and Resource Minister where request is made in order to provide a written answer for the requested request. 386, for the ministers and for the driver, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u83	A respectable president. As you can see, I support the case, but I wanted to give some advance notice regarding extending the privilege of brain service in general. Hv. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy asked for data that extending such patents would actually result in an increased supply and a lower price. Hv. A senator found the answer to what he values so that it is not demonstrated. We in Pirats are generally rather strange when it comes to private secrets and the likelihood of the freedoms of others, even though there are certainly many here who know all the arguments around the noble privacy of their own people. But I wanted to keep this advance. Not all Martyrs are convinced that it's a good thing to have this patent or to extend it at least, but as you can see, I vote on the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u84	V.E.G. President. The situation presented here is laid down by members of various categories and is by nature not a highly social class. However, that is not an agreement, nor does it appear even. in that from a management and surveillance committee, there are several committees and changes proposals. Personally, I believe that both 18 and 16 years of age can be reasoned on by the government or by other elections. I would have thought, though, that it was normal to look for far more harmonizing between rights and duties of young people than to take this out and that it would put two years down under the terms of self - discipline in the country, financial resources, and so forth. So I can't support this case. But I wanted here at 2nd. it reminds us that in the discussion itself a request was made that the committee take the matter back into consideration between 2 and 3. [[The president calls.]] I repeat, it will be.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u85	A respectable president. As mentioned in the case of what? The above - mentioned body of elders is not a group of catechisms. Rather, it is contrary to categories, and there are four committees. I support the bill materially, but I believe that far too short of time is an election and therefore suggest the adjustment proposed that the law will not take effect until the next year. The decision was made at a meeting of the Committee, both by the Department of Justice and by the European Union at lunchtime, that the basic changes in campaign law, as suggested here, should not be carried out in the last year before election. It is, in fact, there. referred to the European Council's guidelines and spoke of family peace in the process of election. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u86	A respectable president. I must say, I have a real problem when it comes to a vote on this matter, simply because I think it's a great idea that children from 16 years of age may be chosen for government. I think that's a pretty good idea. I'm not convinced that any other changes need to be done at the same time, that some other civil rights need to be moved. But I agree with the view that this case is rather late in view of the fact that rural elections are very short. It's the communities themselves responsible for their implementation of elections. They are also responsible for basic schools and educational duties. I feel that there is a need for a specific preparation and community discussion that children get the right to vote sooner. Especially is democratic education available at the hands of high school. So I will support a new proposal with this idea that these laws will take effect later.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u87	A respectable president. Not surprisingly, I will support this matter. That is why there are many sound reasons for confidence. Congressmen have read the bill itself and in the members of the leading section. Those who find bait on this case and think it cannot be executed for these elections or before going to some overall review of all created things, of course, will always find something and say we can't do this right now. However, it has been observed that there is no basis for the implementation of the election under this change now. We consider young people 16 to 18 years of age to be sufficient for us to take their taxes and spend their money. We think they're criminal. So it is due to my opinion that we do not trust them to vote in elections.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u88	Mr. President. Of course, we're all in favor of this case, and we've been. I would like to direct to young voters that this is political in that way that those listed by older voters are those who have either drawn their feet into the matter or tried to put a stone in its street. We can review it all, and we can illuminate it, and we can look over it as a whole. This is political in the sense so that at least one cannot see that it can prevent it from happening. This is going to happen, and this is about the rights of 16 to 18 years of age, so people cannot resist it. They can try to postpone the matter of a single election, of future elections. That's what's going on now. Keep an eye on the discussion. Watch who draw their feet, who will try to say that this is not possible now, even though there are reasons for the opposite from various international institutions regarding child rights and democracy to make exceptions in the absence of basic changes. These aren't basic changes. It's only about 16 to 18 years of age choosing these elections. [[The president calls.]] That doesn't change the process. I want you to keep an eye on this. [[The president calls.]] Talk to older voters if you don't get this right, talk to older voters about them disgraced. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u89	A respectable president. 12th degree. The children's covenant speaks of the right to express their views in order to influence them, to give proper consideration to the opinion of children. This is rather obvious. In my role as a spokesman for the children of Pirata last year, this case was always for discussion wherever I went and talked to children at their association meetings, etc. There's really been a lot of discussion. It has been suggested in previous councils. It's just a vote for it now. The last time these laws were changed, in 1986, a vote on the subject was adopted on April 16, one and a half months before elections. [[Taken out on: right.]] It's even further in the election. There it was done in steps. In 1984 it was changed by the general election, and it was moved down by 18 years, and only two years later in the rural election. We can do this. It's not that complicated. We've done this on short notice. Let's finish this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u90	Mr. President. I was the first messenger of this case at the last council, and the matter has changed with the comments received back then. To me, this is not about the harmony of dates, about when people should have the right to do certain things, but about giving more people the opportunity to influence the community in which they live. I believe that people of that age are prepared to take sides in such matters in an enlightened way, just as older ones do. There's been a good talk about education here. I can agree that we can do much better in education for new voters. This argument also applies to the voter group that receives the vote right of 18 years of age today, for this is not being accomplished. So I believe we have this opportunity to do better education for new voters, but at the same time, we can make this right young person available to influence his closest community. These young people are people who know exactly what the community does best, recently come from elementary school, sports and leisure activities. [[The president calls.]] I say, I don't trust anybody better than these young people to tell me how rural society we want to see. [[Take the front, hear. Hear.]] I will support this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u91	Mr. President. I don't have strong opinions about whether it's better or better for people to have votes or to be elected by 18 or 16. However, I feel that there is a fallacy, or paradox, in order to change the terms of the election or of the age rather than to be adopted. If they now say that this is in order to enhance the self - control of young people, that they have something to say about how the outcome of elections becomes in the countryside, why should they not be elected? Why, then, are these people not to volunteer and be influenced by local governments and governments? That's why I don't feel like it's supposed to be torn apart. I will resist it and cry out, "Why not go all the way? I'd like to support a bill like that. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u92	Mr. President. It's good to hear all the good views presented here. For one thing, the question is, Why change the terms of the election only in the case of rural elections and that it is something that is foolish? But in our neighboring countries, it has been observed that this right of election has been changed because it is closer to the environment, a community of these young people who have the right to vote. Those who have been most critical of these changes now and speak of this as being too short base their criticism that there is not enough time for introductions to voters this spring. It should then be noted that for those 18 years, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Education made it clear that there is no presentation today for the young people who are elected this year. [[The president calls.]] There is no introduction but to the foreign citizens who are receiving the right to vote. [[The president calls.]] The only presentation will be carried out by LUF, a youth's National Association, which is full of publicity and will take on an even greater presentation in spring.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u93	V.E.G. President. At a committee meeting earlier, representatives of the Union's Icelandic community warned that this case would be resolved so that this court would be available in less than 60 days, of which 15 days of vacation days and 45 days will be available for introductions. I agree with what. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson, I urge people to learn who are who are involved in this work, who are interested in feeding them, who are willing to show respect for those who are supposed to choose the time to receive needed instruction, in order to show proper respect for the educational authorities and time so that they can make the necessary arrangements to do this as they do for people. I trust people will understand that the best thing to do is to be careful. It's been over this house that we've been working here, and we've been going through it in a lot of ways. Here is a fine opportunity to show the opposite. [[The president calls.]] Let's do it. Let us postpone the case to 2020, as the adjustment is expected.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u94	Mr. President. I welcome the highest words. Prime Minister and want to make her my word. Besides, I'd like to say this is not a basic change in election law or election system. The family of peace that men have talked about just doesn't take on these factors at all. They're not being changed in any way. Second, I'd like to point out that most political parties have 15 years of age, 16 years. There people rely on the highest positions of these classes, order people on lists, set a policy, but when it comes to choosing these candidates, they are completely at odds with young people's option and policy. I just don't understand the inconsistency and the way people do it, in view of the language they have in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u95	A respectable president. It's in many ways very interesting, i.e. When do we want to trust the young people in the country to make decisions about him and to bring about their environment? But I have to say, in this case, I feel that inconsistencies between different rights are inconspicuous. For example, we do not give the person the right to volunteer, but we want to give him the right to vote in this matter, but not in the general election. We're going to protect the individual from punishment with special criminal abuses in the law of law if the person is guilty of child damage, but he has the right to vote. We are not going to trust the person to buy cigarettes at the store, not to get a driver's license, not to buy alcohol, not over a head to make any valid, binding legal requirements. That's what I would like to discuss in this context, whether there are any different rights that concern children by law to consider as soon as we consider how we can get them to further involvement in their surroundings. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u96	A respectable president. So it becomes clear, in effect, I agree with this change and the bill. Five weeks ago, representatives of the Ministry of Justice came to a meeting of the Board of Directors and Observers and at the time they saw no harm in being able to perform this at the time of the election. Today, this is different. The Ministry of Justice suggests that the bill is not now valid in spring, but later because of problems they see, for example, because of problems they see. that there is a greater risk of failure in the implementation of the election. They're saying this today. They're talking about publicity, etc. I believe today there is, of course, a danger of failure if this is done now, after two months, and pointing out a few things. Like, for example. ... thatan internal assembly contract will begin in over a week. [[Up front.]] There will also be no satisfaction if there were a mistake in the election that this age group, 16 and 17, will not show up at an ideal place but on a small scale. [[The president calls.]] That would be a mistake.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u97	A respectable president. This is where we're basically discussing whether we trust 16-year-old kids to vote for government elections. Yeah, I'm all for that, because one of the bill's carriers. I think the greatest debate has been made whether or not to delay the democratic involvement of young people who are fully able to make their own decisions out of form, whether or not someone else is ready. I can't agree with that. But I am completely available to discuss all the rights that touch this age group, to decrease. I think it's good for everyone to get their responsibility as soon as possible and take responsibility for himself. There's something missing here in this community. But if we're going to put it all together and take that discussion, that's a few years' discussion, we just can't delay these democratic reforms because of it. Because as soon as you bring it up, like... to reduce drinking age would come up with the natural debate: Have you had nothing else to talk about here? [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u98	Mr. President. Yeah, I have to say the word. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason, and also clearly specify such a fixed set of tentendens, which I have experienced in people who want to delay matters, they are suddenly going to make withdrawals of things, and then they're going to be taken for and coordinated procedures and making all kinds of things before we can even begin to think of some sort of change, such as a top-levelfjármálaráðherra Bjarni Benedictsson's secretary of finance came in just a few minutes ago. [[Up front.]] I just want to make sure we have something to look at, we have a variety of ages about when you can do what, including The drinking age, and when we can buy cigarettes. This has changed over the years, and I don't see what it has to do with democratic rights young people to do, but when we can buy tobacco or alcohol. Yes, or get married, or take a loan, or whatever it is. This is our right to influence the way our community is controlled. They have leaned on young people in Icelandic society. We live in a world where young people have it for the first time worse than their parents. It is time that society can be influenced by the way it governs itself. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u99	V.E.G. President. I have always felt that the right to vote has a lot of responsibility. Of course, if people agree with me on this matter, it must be that those 16 years of age who are to be elected can take responsibility for something else in their lives. I'm prepared to agree that men can vote for 16. But I want people to be legal at 16 years of age. It is by far the most natural thing, i.e. If we believe the right to vote is somehow responsible. If it's just some polls and it's part of the democracy, we can go this way. But they have come out here and said, "Steward governments are not interested in this, it's difficult to do this. The Norwegians did this on short notice, and the result was slack, a failure. And then it's just a big change, in contrast to what's happened. paritaprevir Steindór Valdimarsson says. [[The president calls.]] You see, this is a big change. And if we're going to turn this into a total election, we're going to have to change the constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u100	A respectable president. I agree with the change to election law here, and I think the senators know that growing up is one continuous process of development, that happens in many steps, and it's a long tradition for us to take in all sorts of rights as men have mature and grown up, and it's not all the same age. At the same time, I think few people are better off in Icelandic society than just young people to make things their own. The amount of time we are talking about is strong enough to help people learn what they are about to choose and take their responsibilities. On the other hand, I'd like to add that as far as I'm concerned with the P.A., I'm gonna give you a heads-up. Councilmen and members of Congress all over the world to consider before the next election whether to add the rights to the election law.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u101	A respectable president. A lot of things have been said here. I agree it's a material bill. I think that by altering the law in this way, we will further promote the democratic consciousness of young people. This has been done in many ways over the years, with shades, advice, and so forth, and all of these are good. But I will not support this bill in this picture. However, I will support the opinion of the 1st smaller share which suggests that the value will be 1 January 2019. I think we need more time. Outside places begin to open after a few days, one on either side of the month, if I remember correctly. I don't think it's responsible for us as senators to change the law this way just before the election.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u102	V.E.G. President. I agree in my heart that the U.S. election rights of young people are being moved down to 16 years. But in view of this, I've done quite a good research and talked to people and all these ideas and, as a result, I intend to, well. paritaprevir Jón Ólafsson, getting his feet in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u103	There are exceptions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u104	[[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] You can mark me completely. I think it's too short for business, especially since the Icelandic community has discussed it on the committee that they think it's too short for warning. [[For example: Well?]] I think the security's too short.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u105	Mr. President. When changing election laws, let us keep at least two things in mind. Let us be convinced that the changes do not result in the failure of the election. And second of all, let's try to keep our balance on what we're doing here in the house, that's what matters, but that's not us. I think it's a responsible part of us in this room not to listen to the warning words of the European Union, including the warnings the Ministry of Justice has given. But there are people in this room who don't think it matters. Last night I said, "Let's take the steps, let's do this rationally, let's lower the election age for 16 years in the General elections, in the county elections, in the elections, and the votes. [[The president calls.]] We will also discuss other civil rights at least, so that there is a context in what we are doing. [[The president calls.]] Let's do this together, and we'll break up our sleeves.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u106	A respectable president. It has been said that we should listen to various things. I suggest we listen to the children. As I explained earlier, it is in the children's covenant that we should have a proper view of their opinions. I challenged the advocates of children who signed the child - covenant earlier this week to listen to their children, including those who listened to them. The National Association of Teenagers, Iceland's Teenagers, the Union of Icelandic high school students, the Young Equalizers, the Young Left Green, Young Pirata, the Union of Young Adolescents, the World of Young Equal Opportunities, the Association of Social Centers and Youth Centres in Iceland, the National Youth Council all over the country. Why are we listening to the European Union and not to our children? Hello?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u107	A respectable president. We're discussing a very important case, that we want to promote the democracies of young people in Iceland. I will support this situation in spite of the shortness of time. We academic authorities will work to expand our education with regard to this aspect, and we will be able to get this approved today. I also think that just making this change will focus much on the situation, and it will motivate young people to make informed decisions. I trust young people to make informed decisions when they begin to choose. I believe this is a good thing and will support it and work diligently to increase the level of education in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u108	A respectable president. It's fine to come here after the highest. Minister of Education, who thinks it's enough time to educate young people who get the right to vote, the bill becomes law. I was thinking, when I listened to those who are so worried about this, how it's been in history. 1843 was the vote 25 years old and older, but of course only men. 1915 were women over 25 years of age. 1934, the election age was reduced to 21 years, 1968 20 years, and 1984 18 years. With each change, those who have not considered the change have said the same thing; those who receive the right to vote are not educated enough, whether it was women in 1915 or when it was lowered in steps during the 20th century. We always worry that the new voters are not educated enough, they're not like the rest of us who can already vote, they don't know enough about it. I welcome the highest words. A minister of education, head of education in Iceland, who doesn't just think it's possible, but she's gonna support it and I want it to be done. [[The president calls.]] Trust our young people.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u109	President. I trust young people to vote. I trust fully in 16◯18 teenagers to form an independent view of affairs based on their own interests, as do all other voters. It is not easy to hand this authority over to them. It's a little funny to listen to some of the people who are speaking here using some sort of argument for Mosdalur Mosdals, that it needs to be one state route, one state age, in all civil rights. Of course, that is the best way to kill this matter completely. We know, for example, that if we mix an election age with an alcoholic age, we'll get an election age, that's for sure. So I trust the young people, I don't see any harm in them, it's not a fundamental change in our campaign system. They're expanding the theme file on Sirka 3%. That's all. In an electronic society, I think we can handle it in six weeks' notice. I'll back it up as it happens.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u110	A respectable president. I must say, this is the most exciting vote I have ever participated in at the Council. I look forward to seeing the progress, and I'll analyze it afterwards. I'd like to welcome all the committees that came about because there seems to be complete agreement to reduce their age to 16. Of course, people have conflicting views about when and whether to take something else with or about them. It's a matter of fact, mostly critical differences as far as I can see it. To be said, I'm all for looking at lowering more dates if people insist on it. But I also feel that it is all right to reduce one age without lowering another. I'm going to say this: We're going to buy alcohol, 18 years old and we're gonna get a vote, 17 years old we get a car test, if we want to, 16 years old we're going to pay taxes, 15 years old we're going to be innocent, and we're gonna get on a so-called grown man's number, which I've always found a very ironic term at this age, since it's not allowed to happen anyway. As we all remember. I don't see any point in agreeing to this. I've heard the reasons against doing this, heard the reason to postpone it. [[The president calls.]] I feel that the reason not to delay it is strong. I think the reason for doing this is quite enough. Let's just do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u111	A respectable president. This has often been referred to as the International Assembly for Children, and here I am here to speak as such. They refer to a child's contract and refer to child protection laws, refer to anything except what may be in the best interests of the child. I'm going to allow me to read a little of the advice I received from a psychologist who has been especially concerned with children's well - being, both against sexual violence and the harassment against children. The headline is simply: Let the teenagers alone. ▪ About 16 years of age, most youths make a turning point. At this point, they are finishing high school and are making a decision about where they want to go. As everyone knows who hangs out with young people, there is a great increase in maturity each year, especially during this age. Why is it important that youths receive [...] encouragement to strengthen their sense of identity, to be able to shape personal life, and to find themselves as part of a particular body? They need space, need peace to develop themselves, and form opinions without external harassment and pressure. ▪ This is the very essence of being a young person. During those years, the circle of friends is always high priority. Thus, the program is sufficient, although 163/418 - year - olds are not charged with political and political issues as well. We are under obligation to protect young people from all forms of aggressiveness, propaganda, or pressure to take sides in the interests of different kinds of society. So I say, leave the children alone and promise them that they will be 18 years old, for they will probably be able to choose, with this long life span that we now have, for the next 70 years without harassment. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u112	Mr. President. I'd like to take into account some comments from different sources. A comment from the Ministry of Justice primarily indicates the need for a good presentation. It is possible to do well at this time. With regard to the European Union and its rural communities, I would like to say: We who have worked in rural governments have most of us promoted a youth council. And we make young advice and call in young people. Yet, the challenges of young people are that nothing is done with what young people say in the youth council. Now, as members of political and non-political parties, let us strive to gather these people to us, agree with the numerous groups of young people who sent us mail this morning, and show the courage to stand with them, show that they are not just on the tip, that we are going to dress ourselves together at our meetings, but we are going to trust them in real power. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u113	Mr. President. In the past, the question was why. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son to be responsible. I just want to talk about the responsibility of the parties here. We're talking about the Union of Iceland, the Department of Justice. They are responsible that the people of this country can participate in the democratic process. That's where the responsibility lies. Sixteen - year - olds can pay taxes. I find it odd to hear the representative of the Independence Party predict that people paying taxes will not be allowed to influence how the taxes are spent, for no one has I seen more emphasis on them than on their own... class. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I think it's a little strange. I suggest that the institutions responsible for carrying out the democracy take responsibility for it and break it down. They can and should not be complaining about the democratic process in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u114	Mr. President. Many good things have been said here. The strangest thing to me, though, was the comment of Inga Sæland to be blessed with the children in peace. I would love to know and be informed by her side whether they will leave the children alone. Can kids be in Inga's squad? Is the age limit of 18 in the category, or does she not leave her children alone? I think most of the world's views have come up. I wanted to say two things. Regarding a short term sub-election bill: We live in general, and we always agree that when it begins, there is no idea which categories or people are usually running for that election. There can hardly be any special reason why young people cannot choose. I think it's as good what we're doing with what's strange as we're older. For whether these are major or minor changes, these are certainly not major changes in the campaign system. [[The president calls.]] There's nothing to interfere with the election system itself, exactly nothing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u115	Mr. President. I can agree with many of the people here who have spoken, especially the highest. Prime Minister: We are to trust young people in the best interests of our own, i.e. since it can affect one's own community. I have to say the same thing. paritaprevir "Logi Einarsson of the Youth Council." As members of rural governments, we have helped to set up a youth council. I think that the relationship should now be more focused on trying to make them more active and with comparable services because some of them do not have writers and are not properly access to the administration. The main criticism of young people has been that they are not involved, just usually not. We, the middle-aged people, do not bring the young people with us unless only when it's right for us. This has been done before in shame, and this bill has been submitted before. This is effective. Another is a clean, smart premium, that it needs to be postponed. The case occurred last year. There is nothing new about it, even fixing what was then indicated as a need to be fixed. [[The president calls.]] The Ministry of Justice is just snooping around and fixing what needs to be fixed in order for this to be accomplished. It's not that complicated. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u116	President. This has been an interesting discussion. I think some people have the odd language. It is said that some minor improvements cannot be made without fixing the whole system. Is it not just reasonable to take small steps, follow along, and carry on as necessary?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u117	Yeah, like the constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u118	Yes, exactly, just when it's convenient. But about leaving the children alone: We are not going to force children to participate and choose. We're just making it possible for those who are interested in it and who wish to participate to do so. That's what we're doing. Decisions taken now have the biggest impact on these kids, these children. This is the future of those to whom we are making a decision. And it is surprisingly strange to stand here and say that they do not have the right to take part in this decision on important matters that will affect their lives in the future. I'm just saying like a colleague of mine. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson: Just watch who resists these changes. Who are afraid that young people will be involved?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u119	Mr. President. The timeline in this case is that tomorrow's meeting has to be settled, otherwise we're on Easter leave for two weeks, and then they're gonna say, "This is so much too short." Last night, when this case was being discussed, there was a lot of conference practice going on and was trying to delay the case until midnight, so it would fall over to this day. I'll go over it better later. That's a very interesting story. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] The situation today is that it is being tried to use the Ministry of Justice for itself, that it cannot be done in such a short time. I then request a investigation of the legal process at the Ministry of Justice if it is going to stop this case on the grounds that it cannot do this. [[Up front.]] It will then be investigated. And then there is the other. The sort of people standing in the way of this matter must realize one thing: you may make one election, that young people will not enter that would otherwise vote in these rural elections, but you will lose these same people into the future. That is the time that is most prophetic of the way people choose in the future. Think about it again. [[The president calls.]] Let's finish this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u120	The president makes it interesting that his words should be directed to the president and not addressed to members of Congress in the 2nd person.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u121	A respectable president. I'll admit I respect the fundamental princely rule not to change election rules shortly before elections. I'm not getting there lightly. But my overall assessment of the scales, in view of the fact that I've seen nothing but a good performance within the timeliness here, and that I'm saying that there is a measure of expectation in the population in question, it's my overall assessment that I will support this issue unchanged.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u122	V.E.G. President. Since Marteinn Mosdalur was mentioned here, I always thought he was the most fun left man I had ever met. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] True, I did not agree with him about much, but unlike many here, he was consistent. Just drove east in the morning and west at night. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] It's about being a little consistent. I don't object to a 16-year-old vote. I don't care if they were 15 years old. I don't care if they get married, but they take responsibility for themselves because we trust them to take that responsibility. But when I started in politics, that was the question that politicians would not get close to children because it was child protection. It was just child protection; it wasn't supposed to have anything to do with children, it wasn't to confuse their minds. [["But may they be in your company, Empress?]] They can be in the category. It's just the process of development, starting with the category, starting with the category, and then, once they've been developed there, they can choose. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u123	A respectable president. This has been an interesting discussion, and it has been evident that there are tentative issues in an effort to speak to the local case. I have some doubts about this matter. First of all, because there is an election just around the corner. I actually know a young man who likes to vote, very much. He's kind of waiting very excited to vote. On the other hand, when he walks to the table, I want him to have a good job done and prepare the situation very well, and he knows exactly what this will do when he starts to vote. We've been over this many times. But I come up here first and foremost to say that I have doubts because I am the spokesman of children. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. And I let nothing set me up as such to do anything other than my conscience. A lot of what happened. paritaprevir Sæland Goland was brought up here in the platform, and we are also under obligation to listen. And what? Vice Presidents should now know not to go forward, for this is the way the presidents are about to work. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] But, a respectable president. I think people should consider doing this carefully and carefully. I'll be on the yellow button below when this case comes for payment, but accept the adjustment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u124	A respectable president. There's not been a lot of talk here, but it's been pointed one way back. A senator rightly so that it would be a big deal to change election rules just before elections. It sets an example. And it's funny if we don't criticize it when it's done elsewhere. I must admit that I thought this was a matter that would be agreed on by members of Congress to be effective. Someone would have asked: " Is it not wise to consider this, since this has been done elsewhere and learn from the experience there? Somebody would have said that when we got to this room, we'd be in a place where we weren't carting like men doing here in votes. I am confident that children will be chosen for about 16 years, but I don't feel comfortable with the way this case is done. And the discussion points to a lack of success. [[The president calls.]] It all points to that. And when people come up here and say, " We trust young people,'but make them so trivial when we say, " Wait,'don't you think that it's the same as having personal resources? It is, of course, at best a very strange case. But it seems to me that it would have been better to win this thing better.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u125	Mr. President. Young people are very interested in this matter. This is and has been a long struggle for many years for young people, as can be seen here on the farms where we have had guests. We're supposed to listen to young people. The review of the Justice Department, which arrived this morning, is as follows, by the permission of a president: ▪ The campaign website and the information it contains for voters, candidates, and others are over. If this adjustment is now made, the whole material must be replaced and carefully checked for accurate information. Mr. President. It's not even shown who is running for office. We know that this tissue needs updated as more information becomes available. It's only about the word Inga Sæland Land that we're supposed to protect children. It's time to remind Inga Sæland that the conditions to enter the Gang of the people are 16 years away.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u126	Right on the subject is: Honorable senators.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u127	Mr. President. I believe we should trust young people. I would have trusted myself to vote 14 years old, but I might have been very mature. But I think today's young people are still more involved in things than I was when I was 16 years old, and I'm even more aware of what's going on in their surroundings. It just tells itself. We are to have the courage to trust these young people in order to enter the optimal table. We'll let them pay taxes, let them join in our classes, or our movements at 16 years of age. We'd like to have it like a dog. paritaprevir Domes Níelsson's son described these young people as being classed, and we have some trade for young people, and then we take them out after two years, and then we can choose? No, I think they're just supposed to be trusting these young people. Now it's snoring or jumping. We must have the courage now to let this case pass and let young people vote this spring. By the way, it's two years from now. [[The president calls.]] Why not now?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u128	Mr. President. You're right next door. paritaprevir The armoury of the son of Níelsson, that it is important that men be feasting with themselves. It's a lot easier when you come in between them and votes in your throat. [[Up front.]] But there are three viewpoints, there are those who want to support this, there are those who go against it because there are some discrepancies between age and degree of rights, and those who say that a bad one is too short. As for the presentation, I think this is exactly the best time point. This would draw tremendous attention. A youth's relationship has begun to introduce this, and I think it is far more effective to do this now than to let this take effect 2019 and then three years later, there will be elections. Then I think it'll be a lot less relaxed. We all know Iceland's goldfish memory, people seem to forget a lot of things after a few weeks, so I think it's time now.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u129	A respectable president. In part, I feel that men are discussing many related matters, but in other respects they are not related. This is not to say that those who do not like this matter, as it seems here in the Hall of Congress, are absolutely against bringing these rights to the 16 - year - old Icelanders. The point is, among other things, that it is not consistent in giving a vote but does not give the person the right to volunteer, to vote for the government, and not for the Generals - why not? To pay child support to people who can't travel without parental permission but to give them these rights and not one of the ones I've spoken of here is the problem of this matter. It is the viewpoints we speak for, and it is a form of criticism against the matter of Congress. It's not that point of view - yeah, yeah. paritaprevir Leví Björn can figuratively be shot in the head here - it is not criticism that 16 years of age is not due to vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u130	Mr. President. Just that it's clear because it's stated here, including half what. paritaprevir Jón Þór, son of Ólafsson, that I and my associates of the Independence Party, who, of course, are partners on the bill, are afraid of changing the election age. What a load of shit. I'm going to say one thing, that there is probably no political party as strong as the independent party among the younger voters. [[Up front.]] In this regard, we should be the leading spokesmen of lowering the election age, even going down lower, and that is what we are. But we want to do this decently and to be consistent. That's our criticism.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u131	A respectable president. It is worth the effort to hear that certain senators come to the Pontta IIs to try to - well, probably because I had forgotten the rules of the people's Gang about 16 years'admissions. It is not the same as participating in political activity and entering the booth. It's not the same thing if you get to have your own will and opinions on whether you want to go to politics or have a grandmother boy who's turning 17, saying, " Grandma, when am I old enough to go out and vote for you? Not that he has any idea what I'm doing here over my head. So I just say this: It's the minimum thing for a young person to choose for himself whether they're going on the line to choose some political scene or whether they're forced into what I don't think is right at this point and I want the children to enjoy the doubt completely. [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u132	V.E.G. President. I am part of one of the last years of my last years at the local Versaille School of Iceland, where I was tried to herd the Heimdal Valley when I was 14 years old. I'm not shy about young people choosing or responsibility, not at all. But I don't want to be the subject of any self-signed agency of children being a problem for us and saying that we're drag dwellers and afraid of this change. I don't feel like sitting around for that. I trust young people very well. One of the most fun things I've done in this job is talking about politics with young people. I always encourage young people to participate in politics. A lot. Very. But I have the respect for young people and others that I want to try to do properly the things I do. Good. I don't want to throw my hands at them. That is why I want to do this so that there will be a good time to instruct young people about what it means to have a vote. Afraid of young people? Never in life.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u133	Mr. President. Will anyone really ignore the warnings of the Ministry of Justice, which will take place and run the election? This brief period of lack of presentation alerts us to an increased risk of failure. Educated is power, was one day told. There was great power. A minister of education when she said that she was going to join this matter and introduce it. I'm just going to point out that there's more than a week in the beginning of an extra-contracted contract. [[The point is, it's not...]] Are you going to pick up 9,000 young people in a week? The power of great power. A minister of education if she's going to do it in one week. [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u134	The president asks the speakers to be heard. It works better that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u135	Mr. President. I don't think there's any reason to judge the people in this room if we don't agree. However, I find it necessary to point out that this matter has been discussed in the past. It is not as if this is a brand - new issue on the political program. I also think it's a reason to point out, because this is about the beginning of an extracurricular conference in over a week, that we've been on the Council's program for a few years, a change in election law that we've not yet completed, so that there may be an increased agreement between the date of the deadline and the beginning of an extracurricular meeting. We still haven't finished it, so there's inconsistencies there. I'm asking, why don't we just stop all elections while we get together on that? The vote for President is 35 years, but the election age is 18 years. Do we feel that it is so dangerous inconsistencies? You see, that's not what this is all about. It is about giving these young people the opportunity to increase their influence, thereby following the example of many European countries who have done just that because it is truly valuable to our community that we receive these voices to help mold our community. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u136	A respectable president. I'd like to use this opportunity to attract the highest attention. As a result, the Environment and Transport Committee has taken care of a situation this morning on the part of these rural elections and the administrative level. It's about the fact that rural governments or rural groups themselves have the capacity to set a number of local government managers for the election. I bring this encouragement here because I would have chosen to have this subject on the program today. That's how I feel about the spirit being here in certain people, who, in fact, prevented us from handling it with the committee. It's just about, so I'll witness in comparison with the speech of the highest. Prime Minister, to extend greater authority to local authorities, to present a democratic right to the countryside. I hope the matter comes as soon as possible into the council, preferably today or tomorrow, and that we can handle it at the same time, so we can listen to the harmony of people's language. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u137	Mr. President. This is a theme of the reasonings of those who are speaking to this matter that we should give young people an opportunity to be more effective in society, such as the Supreme Court. The prime minister came up here just a few minutes ago. Then I'm still asking why this bill doesn't include a separation of how these people get elected. If that is the goal of the bill, why not give these young people the opportunity to be a member of the countryside? It is a weekend to present the case in this way. It doesn't mix sound with a picture, so it's used as a known phrase. [[Up front.]] It's the same thing. If the reason is that people should be given an opportunity to do so, why not make a vote on the way? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u138	Mr. President. I do not have the means to answer everything that has been presented in this discussion, for this is, in fact, a discussion rather than a vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u139	That's where the president agrees.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u140	I trust we have plenty of time for 3rd. to discuss the matter more fully so that there can be more room for communication. There's one point I think there's a reason to call attention to that interesting, which was shown in the conversation last night, that Norway, one of our neighboring countries, has adopted the rule of having a right to the county government 16 years. There are examples elsewhere in Europe, in fact, about 16 years of vote, while Norway did this experiment with rural governments. It is marked with those who have discussed that this change has not been successful. And why? Yes, there was not enough time to prepare. The preparation was imperfect. [[The president calls.]] We are here to take our stand on this matter a week before an outside conference agreement begins.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u141	Mr. President. I haven't mentioned this bill until now. Although this is a matter of great interest and concern, I'm going to let myself say that I seem to be careful with a little quickness of taste and some quick scripts on things, at least. ... according to the paintings of a lot of people here. It is certainly a responsibility to ignore the warning words of the Ministry of Justice and other public officials. I'm going to remind myself of the ancient proverb, because that's all I know in Latin, that's: 'Festina lande.' Hurry slowly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u142	Mr. President. I call attention to the fact that this adjustment suggests a greater part of the management and monitoring committee is expected to distinguish between the election and the voting rights to the county government. The reason why the greater part I'm not part of this case suggests is that it is likely in some way that individuals can take their place in a rural government and have the financial authority that comes with it without being self-involved personally. I think it reflects a bit of the problem in this case, this discrepancy that the bill does nothing more than add to the rights of young people. I'm embarrassed by this vote. I believe, in many ways, it would be normal for votes and votes to always go together. Of course, I understand a certain viewpoint behind the greater position on this matter, but I feel that this is merely an extension of the conflict between the different rights and the responsibilities of young people.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u143	Mr. President. I have come here to make a comment on this vote because the changes in the budget. 566 goes further, and I think it should have been brought up sooner. I'm going to direct this to the President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u144	Mr. President. Here a request is made that the prime minister report the arrival of the so - called darker to the 2016-2017 election. I will not violate this request, but I would like to state it as long as possible. Council members asking for these reports are expected to know that this matter is considered in the field of the Commission of all the classes at the General Assembly. They have been aimed at evaluating this approach and offering suggestions that may be available so that I expect this report to go with the work that all classes of the Council have already decided to attack. I reiterate it because it is important to me that all members of the council are informed about the work they have granted their representatives the authority to go to.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u145	A respectable president. I ask for an explanation from the president why the adjustment is necessary. Fifty-five hundred and sixty-five were taken ahead of the shape of change. 566 where we count, which supported that proposal. Sæmundsson The proposal goes further than the one mentioned above. 566. That's why I'd like to hear the argument about it if it isn't.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u146	It's easy to answer. This does not apply to the general conference requirement that the proposal be brought up that goes the longest, and the others are considered to be fallen if approved. All right, here's all the modifications made. Here, both of them made adjustments. The members of Parliament made a vote and both were cut down. When there is a vote, and it can be clear to everyone, it doesn't matter which one of them is served first. Hv. Councilmen are wise to know what changes they want to make, and they can be confident that they will always come up with a vote. This is what I think will explain in a simple form, but the president would rather not start arguing about it. It is welcome to consider such a matter. The vote is over, as it should be clear to everyone, and discussions about the outcome in this sense do not serve much purpose.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u147	V.E.G. President. I'm not gonna start arguing with the highest. The president of this matter, but I reiterate that I do not consider this trial to be the way it should have been. I find this humble explanation and will ask for the next session of the Presidency to give a written explanation and to consider whether it was correct and in accordance with the Convention Act. I think a poor explanation is that there's a series of changes here, so let's see if they're gonna fail or support. It may well be that a person's mind on the shape of change. The 565 would have been different if she had been brought up after the No. 566. I'm not sure we've had the right conclusion in this case here today, and that's too bad.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u148	The president points out that this was a change in proposals that determined an entire article on the bill. It was not a change of word inside an article or another. There were two options available that each expressed the whole code of laws. When it is clear in advance that both such suggestions will always be offered, the order in itself should not have to be important. Of course, in this case it was not difficult to determine which went further, but in other cases it can often be difficult to settle. That is why the practice here is that all adjustments in the form of rules come into play. This is especially true of the General Assembly rather than in some places where we live in a general assembly, claiming to be president of the United States.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u149	A respectable president. I had the same expectations. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's stone that the adjustment that would take place would be further than that. I'm used to making these adjustments. I don't really think it's a big deal in itself, but it surprised me and it made me uncomfortable because I'm following the web very closely when we're voting. I listen when the president talks about the numbers and mentions the Senate documents in order to keep a close eye on what's going on. I notice these things and they confuse me because I try to watch them. That's why I find it inappropriate, with all due respect for a respectable president, that he sent some pill to the council members that he assumes they know what they're voting for. It needs to be monitored here, and it can be difficult. Those senators who take great pride in this knowledge are well aware that this is not about it. That was a natural question. Senator. I'm surprised to learn that this is a rule. I'm not going to argue with the rule, though. I don't feel anything in the Senate that makes what I think is normal, that the one going further would be taken sooner, but I wanted to make a comment about this expression by a respectable president. [[The president calls.]] He is also responsible that people in this hall know what is going on.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u150	President will hear what he's saying. Councilmen say, and it's probably a matter to review the matter calmly at meetings with members of Congress or elsewhere. The president tried to explain what he could without preparation. He hoped that it would explain it rather than the other. Each of us can take comfort in the fact that according to the vote and the figures in it, there is no difference in the outcome.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u151	I recommend a bill to correct a law of law No. 161/2002, about a financial firm. The bill's on the roof. 537 - 387 C.E. The bill covers three changes in the law that take place in reorganization of financial resources and break down financial companies. The changes are based on the 2001/24/EC Directive's Directive for reorganisation of funds and loans. Indicatives of the bill's contributions are comments made by the EFTA Institute of Observation because of current legislation and the interpretation of the courts on them. According to the Icelandic principle, the right to exercise rights, lawsuits, and implementing the decision to reorganize financial resources and break financial companies, depending on Icelandic law, financial companies have obtained licenses in this country. This principle is based on European rights rules. The bill recommends changes to the exceptions from this principle, but these exceptions are recommended in Directive 2001/24/EC. The main objective of making contributions to the bill is to increase the clarity of the laws of law that introduce three of these exceptions in Icelandic rights. This aims to meet the observations ESA has made on the implementation of these regulations here on the country. This is a set of rules that take account of the debt, the position of payment contracts, and the authority to end legalizations that are considered to be damaging to creditors. The changes made by the bill are as follows: A modification in terms of interpretation of non-value, invalidation, or lack of legal protection in the sense of 30. g. Directive 2001/24/EC, which are referred to in the current legislation to III. section of the Act on Protocol, salaries and invalid legislation to explain it. In the EFTA Court's judgment on the E-28/13 case, the input of the 30 st. The directive explained that the misdemeanor's policies on reimbursement should also fall under the scope of Article 30. The directive, however, gives us reason to correct the field of values. They're suggested to refer to XX. section on bankruptcy, etc. will be added to the n- force 2 mg. 99. g. The law. It is then suggested that the term "greeting agreement" be defined in the law by a specific explanation. A change in the y- team of 2 mg is also proposed. 99. g. The law that takes care of payment contracts and balances. The purpose of these changes is to reconcile the wording of the law of the 23rd and 25th verses. Directive 2001/24/EC which contains certain rules regarding payment agreements and balances. The change thus suggests that the right effect of payment agreements can follow laws other than the Icelandic in the reorganization or the worn - out loan system, which is in accordance with the directive. It is a requirement, though, that such a contract be made before any financial restructuring or breaking. The principle of the law is that when financial companies undergo reorganize money or break up in the country, they pay dues to Icelandic law. In Directive 2001/24/EC it is as stated previously that, in certain cases, a creditor has been authorized to demand balance on the requirement of a financial enterprise and on the laws of the country which apply to the requirement of a financial enterprise. In this case, we need to be authorized by the laws of the state that take up the legal position of the party. The bill aims to explain more fully this exception rule, however, it is a requirement that this exception rule poses a limit to the right to debt on the basis of the authority is limited by the right of a financial enterprise to demand annulling or renovating according to the terms of contracts, commissions, and invalid legalties or bankruptcy. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee, after the end of this discussion and then through 2nd. Here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u152	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize the legislation on Iceland's impenetrable Insurance. The main focus of the bill is: First of all, the treatment of reforms is proposed to be reduced, and administrative levels will be reduced to the loss of authority to sue the management of Iceland's Anti-Development Insurance Act before being charged with a ruling committee. When this change occurs, it will be simpler, as well as more in accordance with the general administration laws. Second, it is suggested that special checks of the year be removed. A review of the Agency's annual accounts is therefore considered unnecessary for special viewers to review its accounts. Third, it is suggested that events that will be determined by man's will or by great inadequacy are not considered to be natural disasters in the sense of the law. This suggests establishing the standards established by the Agency. Fourth, it is suggested that the risk of self damage be reduced from 5% to 2% of the damages, while minimal personal risk increases. This suggests a $200,000 risk. instead of 20,000 k, risk due to domestic property 400,000 k. Instead of 85,000 and the risk due to maning activity of 1 million instead of 850,000. The current risk is lower than in most property insurance, and there is a risk that the Agency's funds will be used to make significant damages to many sources if so. The bill emphasizes that those who suffer significant losses will be rewarded at a higher rate than those who suffer minimal damage will carry their own risk. If the bill is legal, the Agency will have more room to handle larger damages, which again reduces the possibility that the Agency will need to borrow, on the authority of the state funds, in order to meet its commitments. Fifth, it is suggested that damage tolerance be made mandatory in terms of insurance reforms to repair the damaged property or objects. In addition, the Agency will be obliged to pay insurance benefits in accordance with the progress of reforms if the amount of insurance insurance is greater than 15% of your insurance level or damage has been made in terms of security and loyalty. Finally, it is suggested that in exceptional circumstances the Agency can intervene in the repair of domestic property in consultation with damage tolerance. Sixth, the Agency is given a new name. It is suggested that the term "Environment Insurance" be canceled and that it will instead be called Iceland's Natural Disaster Insurance. The aim is to reflect more fully the role of the Agency, which is to ensure the harm caused by natural disasters. The insurance itself would also be called natural disaster insurance. I expect there to be some discussion on this point and since I am rather conservative myself, I had made this suggestion in the bill that I come from there and from the board and from the management and executives of very special interest. I'm reluctant to object to the opinion of those in question, that the name has caused some confusion, and that the rendition may better reflect the role of the Agency, but I admit that I was not fully convinced at the first examination. I suggest, though, to the council and to encourage the committee to continue to think on that subject in particular. A respectable president. The main objective of the bill is to improve efficiency in Iceland's normal insurance activities and limit the overall insurance protection in such a way that it is more likely to strengthen the foundation of society's institutions through natural disasters that are causing much loss of property. If the bill is legal, it should support Iceland's integration insurance activities. It is suggested that the work be done in a much simpler way and that the provision of damages will be made clearer without adversely affecting damage tolerance. Then the treatment of damages should take less time and result in a lower cost for the benefit of all. According to this, I suggest that the bill be referred to the Economic and Business Committee and to the 2nd. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u153	A respectable president. Before stating this matter, I would like to apologize for having been late in the house and had to postpone a meeting for 15 minutes. I recommend a bill to a total law on equal treatment regardless of race or ethnic background. The bill was previously submitted to the 146th legislature of 2016-2017, but it could not be completed before the end of the council. The review of reviews that had been received by the General in the treatment of the matter was made taking into consideration comments as indicated. The improvement of the bill is in line with the government's policy declaration, which stipulates that equality in the broad sense is an unbreakable part of a just and fair society. It also says that Iceland should be desirable for all who wish to participate in building an Icelandic community for the future. Human rights, equal opportunities, variety, freedom, and responsibility, along with respect for differing opinions, would be solidly foundationed. In addition, it is stated that it is easier for immigrants to become competent and active participants in Icelandic society. The bill suggests that in Icelandic legislation the principle of equal care for individuals is laid down regardless of race and ethnic background in all areas of the community outside the workforce. It is not expected that the bill will apply for equal management in a labour market where I will follow with this bill providing a special bill. In order to ensure the equal treatment of people in Icelandic society, the bill suggests that discrimination on the grounds of race and nationality, whether direct or indirect, is prohibited. With a clear ban on discrimination, it is thought that this will contribute to the active participation of most people in Icelandic society, regardless of race or ethnic background, and that it will prevent social isolation of individuals for the same reason. The bill is also intended to be a factor in preventing racial opinions from taking place here. Must be considered as new in Icelandic law, although other laws of national law are also intended to ensure that, in some areas, equal treatment in certain areas of society, e.g. 65. g. The Constitution, and certain aspects of the general penal code and administrative law. Furthermore, the Icelandic government has validated treaties designed to promote equal treatment in the community, including the European Convention of Human Rights, the UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights, the United Nations Convention on Economic, Social, and cultural Rights, and Europe's Social Convention. This includes social protection, including social security and health services, social status, education and access, or delivery of products and services. The bill is also intended to apply to housing available for the general public. The regulations of the bill are not expected to apply to family and/or private business. Among other things, social benefits are on the bill to enjoy certain good things from a government person or private person, such as access to places intended for the public, inside or outside, where you can enjoy leisure time or attend cultural and artistic events to name something. This includes discounts or offers that apply to access to such sites or events. It is noted that the above applies to all locations intended for the general public, whether the location is considered to be official or private. In this context, there are sometimes talk of public space. In addition, there is access to public transportation, subsidies in schools, and high school expenses. The bill also suggests that racial and national discrimination guidelines are considered to be discrimination in the sense of the bill and thus prohibited. The same is true of harassment when connected with race or ethnic background. Then, in the bill, it is assumed that temporary measures will be permitted to improve the position of those who are in a certain area because of race or ethnic background. However, billing does not affect the different treatments used on the basis of state and state care, such as on the basis of law No. 80/2016, about foreigners, and the law No. 97/2002, about the employment rights of foreigners. The terms of the bill are not expected to apply to such different treatments if the treatment is based solely on the individual subject's subject's subject subject. On the other hand, if the treatment is based on the race or ethnic background, it is assumed that the standards of the bill will be set and protected accordingly. It is assumed that management and administration according to the bill are the same as on the basis of law on equal positions and the equal rights of women and men. Therefore, the minister of equality will take control of matters that this bill will take care of. It's a law-to-be in charge of the bill's implementation. In addition, if it is thought that the law has been violated and is assumed to be a rather relevant law for equal positions as well as for the right of women and men to the same degree as it can be, it is recommended to consult the Committee of Equal Opportunities. The implementation of the bill was guided by the Council of Europe's Directive No. 2043 of June 29, 2000, to carry out the principle of equal care, regardless of race or nationality regarding rights and duties outside the workforce. Since the Directive is not a formal part of the European Economic Area Convention, it is not really introduced into Icelandic, but it is protected by the bill that there is a material agreement in Icelandic rights and rights in the European Union on the basis of a controlled directive and is in accordance with the approved European government of 2003 and a standard document sent by EFTA in February 2003, which announced that Icelandic legislation would be legalized to the Commission to ensure the continued effort of a labour market. In addition, Norway has also introduced comparable legislation in Norway, although not being part of the European Regulation, just as Iceland did. It should also be noted that the United Nations Human Rights Council and the National Committee of Social Affairs in Europe require rich governmental legislation to prohibit discrimination on the basis of race and ethnic background. Furthermore, the Northern countries and most of Europe have developed a directive or reflect its contents in their national rights and can be said that Iceland has become a large submerge of other Western countries when it comes to protecting individuals from discrimination. The bill suggests that people of a foreign background experience prejudice and discrimination in everyday life here on earth. In addition, the bill is giving for the first time here on the country of individuals who consider themselves to be discriminated on the basis of race or ethnic background outside the labour market authority to seek their rights to a government ruling committee. Thus the bill is designed to promote greater equality in the community. You will hear a view of Article 65 of the paragraph. The constitution should be considered sufficient to ensure the accuracy of the board. It is true that, at least in part, it is as true, but it is also important to look for international comparison to Iceland as it is for immigrants where discrimination laws that are not available. It should also be noted that surveys show that immigrants in this country experience certain prejudices and discriminations intended to deal with these legislation. A respectable president. As soon as I wish for this case to receive a positive treatment, and suggest that it be referred to the General and Education Committee, I would like to reiterate that I expect the Council to take the bill for careful consideration. As I told you before, this case was proposed to the last council by my predecessor, why. paritaprevir The village Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, who was then a minister. The end of the last council was not reached. It is back here, and I expect a good partnership with the General and Education Committee in the processing of this case and wish her good success in her work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u154	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the review. Well, it's pretty important to me. I was its chairman in the Committee during the last term, and unfortunately it didn't run out. Of course, like many others, I feel that it is time for us to take those steps, although they may not be very large if we compare them with those laws that have been established in other countries. The protection given there is often even richer than here. However, this is an excellent first step, and in fact, it is quite remarkable how much discrepancy is in Iceland on the one hand when we consider that our legislation when it comes to sexual equality has gone quite well and done as long as this issue has not gone so fast. I confess that I have not been able to do enough research in order to know if there are any material changes since they were adopted from council members during the last term and would like to ask the secretary first. Second, I would like to ask, because the case is being announced in February, this March is about to pass, whether it is a matter of concern, or whether a minister will experience any opposition within his company or other government classes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u155	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this answer, and he agrees with what he says. Senator I think it's a good first step, but we always have to be on our toes in these things. I also encourage the committee to examine specifically whether there are reasons for furthering these issues or in what ways. While there has been no material change in this matter, there have been minor material adjustments in the other subject that follows. In view of the fact that this is a matter, as a result of each committee, and in view of the subsequent adjustments we have made, it was a good idea for them to come into contact with the council. That may explain why this matter is happening now, even though it did not change. For the sake of whether there is material opposition within the governments, I can only speak for myself in that regard. I'm on this case, of course. I'll make it a point. The matter has come to the council. That means it's going through government. It's also passed through three different governments and has come to the council. That means they have the support of the government. I can't answer it by individual senators, they have to do it themselves in votes. Of course, this is where each person has his convictions. But I will support this case, and I have conviction that the more part of Congress does it and very much more things. I hope this answers questions. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u156	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for the answer. If I'm here any longer, you might be able to count on my support in this case, but I guess that won't happen. Nevertheless, I dare say that the matter will be supported by my council. I thought about it and hope that the minister will give me a little bit of anxiety, for he used those words that he would want the committee to examine the matter carefully. Today, I know what is done well, and that expression is sometimes used when people do not necessarily want to be spoken of. I just want the minister to explain what he means with this expression and to see if it is not fully clear that the matter is put forward in order to be approved at this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u157	A respectable president. I want to thank you for the support of this case and who knows but what. A senator will be back in this room as a deputy when the case comes to final payment. No one knows his life until they're all dead. When I said carefully, I now meant, in the context of the fact that there may be reasons for careful consideration of the comments. A senator made that perhaps we should expand the subject of the bill. The bill as it is presented here is fully devoted and heavily supported by the social and equal minister. However, there is good reason why the committee may well reexamine whether this should go further. I encourage her in this context, but there's a serious point behind the input of this case, and I expect it to receive good and quick treatment at the same time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u158	A respectable president. We look at these two issues together, the prohibition of discrimination in the labour market, and the prohibition of discrimination on the grounds of race or nationality - I'm willing to say the names of these bills, but I hope to the highest degree. A minister understands what I mean. I wanted, after what was discussed here in the previous answer, to talk to the minister about why it wasn't decided to go further on the bill we're discussing here, i.e. to extend the value of the bill to cover the different aspects of the labour market legislation. I'm gonna let me quote the bill next time, i.e. about the set of values and the difference parameters it touches. It says, by permission of the President: These laws apply to equal treatment of individuals in the labour market regardless of race, nationality, religion, alive, disability, age, sexual orientation, gender, gender characteristics, or gender expression. I'm interested in knowing why, especially in view of how long this case has been for the treatment of the Ministry, it was not decided to take the step further and set in these differences. Of course, I feel that there is good reason to place these differences, disability, impaired working ability, age, sexual orientation, sexual awareness, sexual expression, or gender characteristics, into the common discrimination laws. There's something countries around us have been doing, that's something we generally have, in the general record of Iceland, were criticized for, i.e. that we do not have a general discriminatory law that allows a lawsuit to be discriminated against in these different factors. I ask, "Why did you decide to do that? " Does a minister not go further and take those differences first possible?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u159	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for her answer. This bill is transferred unchanged, and the second bill, which follows, such as voila. A senator correctly enters, has made changes, has been expanded, and includes other factors. We are, in effect, taking further steps than was made when the case was last presented. One reason why this is not being done is because I thought it proper for us to take further steps regarding the second bill. With this bill, we're starting work, including... with the '78 agreement, to implement and include other factors that need to be taken into account so that the situation reaches a larger group. I thought this time, and having agreed with the government, it was a sensible first step in this subject. But I'm saying it out loud and clear that I'm urging the committee to look into it specifically. If you want the bill to include more factors, then there's no point in yourself. But it's right to say that my objections to former social and equal ministers have been made that there are differing opinions here in the chamber. I speak for my mouth in that subject. I want to see these matters proceed and see them reach as wide as possible. I encourage the committee to examine this in particular. But we thought right this time to take this step.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u160	Madam President. I thank the Minister for the answer. I'd like to ask you a little more - in view of the highest. The minister here tells us that he encourages the committee to consider this matter - whether the Ministry is ready to be on our side of the committee by word of it. I mentioned this in the treatment of the situation last time that I felt that these larger groups should be covered, and I received a message that this is a reasonable first step. On the other hand, I feel that all too long, waiting for justice from previous larger groups. Of course, I think it's very positive that they're working with the '78 Conspiracy to expand this to their melancholy population. However, it may not be expected that disability and other such symptoms, other such differences that have an extensive impact on the lives of people and their rights here in this regard. I remind you that we have signed the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disappointments, which includes our commitment to forbid discrimination on the basis of disability within our common law. I believe there's a good point that we're going to start banning discrimination against the disabled, too. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking a minister: Is it a requirement to help us on the Committee to help us, and will the Micro-Communications Alliance be in charge of the next law? [[The president calls.]] Or can we just get this thing off now?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u161	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. I say again what I said earlier that it was decided to take this step in this session, just as was done when the bill was submitted to the last legislature. Of course, the legislators have the right to make changes. Now I'm gonna bring this bill, put it in here at the council. The Congress is in charge of what changes it will make in its affairs, both here and there. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. I say, it's no problem to consult the Ministry for help and information, whatever they are, whether they're involved in this or anyone else's case. My word is that the Ministry staff will be invited and the Committee will have been assisted. However, I reiterate the importance of the council holding the case after a minister recommends it rather than the execution. But it's no problem to provide all the help and expertise and other things that are present in the Ministry in the processing of the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u162	Madam President. I'd like to start by wishing to the highest. Minister of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities to congratulate you on having this case again for the council. You're right. You're right. A minister mentioned that the matter was put before the council in fact twice during my Prime Minister's reign, but to be careful that all fairness with the matter was also very long in the time of the Social Ministry of Harðardóttir Harderdó, she deserves a great deal of credit for the work that was done then. I am in a similar area in my speculations, as we have already seen and in spite of the importance of this matter, and we are very much behind when it comes to protecting minor groups with a complete lack of discrimination laws, as has been repeated. I agree with the highest. Minister, it's good to end these matters, though we have the ambition to go further. But in the course of last year, I had the Ministry a brief search to see what was the point of taking up the matter before the fall council. Our conclusion, then, was that there was too short a time, with the goal of putting this forward in the fall and requiring too much work. My question to a minister in the previous answer is, "Did any further investigation of this occur in the meantime, in view of the rather differential bill on the labour market? '
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u163	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. In order to be fair to any social worker who has worked here for a while, this case has been in operation for a long time. As I came into my discussion of history, in 2003 these matters were first being worked out. Then, 15 years ago. That alone gives us reason to wonder why such issues, such as those so self - righteous and supposed to protect minorities in Icelandic society, need to be taken care of in the system for 15 years. There is no one to be accused of this matter. I think it's just an Icelandic thought to get hurt. That's where I think the dog's lying. That's what I'm talking about. A senator asks and turns his attention to this matter, I think that material reasons are presented in this way, as if at times they are the same as when the issues arise. A senator was a minister. This is the first step in this matter. As I said earlier, I felt that both issues were viewed at the same time as changes. The result was to make adjustments to the second of the cases presented here, and we are thereby taking steps and beyond those proposed at the time. Regarding further changes, it was well thought that this was the first step in this matter and that more groups would need to be consulted there. Like what? A senator knows, and to some extent, I traced in my debate, behind this initial series is an enormously long enforcing process that covers more than one and two Ministerial Times. This may be because they feel that they cannot make big changes. Maybe it's a delusion. I don't know. But I encourage the council to give special consideration.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u164	Madam President. I agree with that with the highest. Minister perhaps we should rethink our approach. I think we've been way too conservative, especially in these cases. As a minister came in handy, it has been over 15 years before the council. Indeed, as pleasant as it is, we need to go a lot further. Here, we are merely defending minor rights in general on the basis of race and ethnic background, with the exception of the masses in the differential bill on the labour market. It is good to hear the comments of a minister in previous answers that the Ministry will be made to the committee within the counsel in these matters. I would strongly encourage the Minister to immediately begin the ministry's work on a memo to the Committee on Whose Care for the Committee, since I think there is good reason for the committee to look into it. I think it's all right to allow minorities to enjoy the doubt and to give up the conservativeness that has marked this situation so far. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u165	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. As soon as I hit it with what. A senator he was talking about, that we were too conservative in these matters, let me say that I'm going to be conservative about not having a memo written by myself until a formal request comes from the Committee to perform such a memo. However, I don't think it'll take long because the Ministry has all the evidence and viewpoints about it and can be taken together in half a day. I'm sure it's the committee on the part of this case that she would like to do so in a formal manner. However, I reiterate that once a minister has made a case like this before the council, it is in the hands of the Commission and the legislatures of the Council, not the Commission. However, the legal authority's request for information from the Commission is likely to be aware of it and to assist the committee in all its activities, whether it is relevant to this or to others.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u166	A respectable president. Since I support this matter wholeheartedly, I don't think of delaying it by giving me very long or thorough discourses. However, I wanted to come up here in the light of the verbal exchanges that were taking place in reply and to tell the minister from my main line that I am comfortable if this matter goes through so well as unchanged attenna. I know that not everyone agrees on this, but in my case it is more valuable to me that there will be a whole-scale law on equal treatment regardless of race or ethnic background as soon as possible than the law that we would like to see in the form we would like to see it in the long run. That's what I stressed during my last term and assessment as a possibility that the case would be resolved if we were to take it back to the same place. Sadly, that did not work out right, even though it did not work out. But so to the highest. Ministers understand my position correctly, and I don't feel that it is necessarily necessary and necessary for my support to the matter that we are adding to other variables. I've been studying a bit of Icelandic legislation through these eyeglasses how it comes out compared with other countries' legislation when it comes to the rightfulness and rightfulness of people of foreign origin. In all the levels and comparisons, we stand out as different - that is exactly the lack of legislation on the basis of ethnic altruism. Many countries that have such laws go on, for example. further by specifying religion in comparable legislation or even inmates or inmateries. That's just as logical a step I'd think. But as I say, in view of the many challenges and how many groups may be involved, there is a greater risk that with each group or variable, the next group that will seem to be missing. So I find it logical to conclude that in the first round, we take into account the changes that turn toward nationalities, ethnic backgrounds, races, things that are very directly involved in making Iceland a multi-cultural society. I'm not gonna say anything more. As I say, I support the fact that the case is going so unchanged in the first hours, but, of course, it will not go against it if someone believes that it is easy to increase the number of differences listed there. But that is not a prerequisite for my support.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u167	A respectable president. Then I recommend the second case, which, in fact, could be said that a material discussion was already under way when men were comparing these two matters. But this issue is about equal management of a job market, as a respectable president correctly introduced it. The objective of the bill is that workers in the labour market will not be directly or indirectly discriminated on the basis of disability, disability, age, race, nationality, religion, biology, sexual orientation, gender characteristics, or gender expression. This aims to counteract discrimination and to establish and maintain equal management in the labour market. The bill is re moved, but it was submitted before. being a social minister, as we have seen, in the last legislature of 2016-2017. It did not come to completion, but I hope that the matter of this matter will have a serious discussion at the council so that it can be legal before we go into the summer. The members of the Ministry of Health reviewed reviews that had been received by the General during the past session and were taken into account their comments as appropriate. A major physical change has been made on the bill from previously stated that gender characteristics and sexual expression have been added to factors that can lead to discrimination when the bill takes on this. This change is in accordance with the government's treaties that Iceland should be the land of opportunity for all, and individuals should enjoy equality for law, regardless of gender, gender characteristics, or gender expression. However, the design of this bill has had some consequences, based on the information of Europe's ships since 2000. These directives are not formally addressed to the European Economic Area Convention, but at the beginning of 2003, Iceland's government agreed that a European legislation would be adapted to the directive's directive to ensure a unique effort on the internal market within the region. At the same time, it is possible that the United Nations Human Rights Council and the Social Convention Committee of the European Union have made a rich requirement for legislation on the ban on discrimination on the basis of the factors above directives to be set up here on the United States. In view of this repeated consideration in the surveillance committee of the European Social Convention, the violation of the European Union's Social Convention has been considered. It should also be noted that all 28 EU and other countries, in order to form Norway, as I was involved in speaking to previous cases, have introduced them as commands. Most EU countries have established rules that require greater protection than requirements. So I believe that Iceland has lost its risk of protection in terms of the individuals involved and is less protected in these areas than in other European countries, including the rest of Europe. to the 28 European states, as well as to Norway. The bill was negotiated closely with the labour market organisation. At the same time, reviews from a number of sources who are concerned about equality were requested. Then, in February 2014, the bill took an open story on the Ministry's Web, where all who were invited to make comments on the subject. All comments received were reviewed and taken into account as indicated. A respectable president. The bill does not address different treatments of individuals in the labour market on the basis of a citizen's or a stateless state, nor does it affect the standards of the law on foreigners or the legal rights of foreigners. It is also worth saying that there are no rights and services in public systems, such as public security, community service, unemployment insurance and observation systems. The bill makes a special provision for expositing, which includes both the definitions of equal positions and the equal rights of women and men, e.g. direct and indirect discrimination, harassment, and pay conditions. Furthermore, the words for study of life, disability, impaired working ability, age, sexual orientation, sexual awareness, sexual symptoms, and sexual expression are presented. I am well aware that the last four reasons have been in great progress over the last few years, and it seems to each of them. So I'm going to leave it to the Senate to discuss their contents in more detail and further definitions. A respectable president. The reasons for discrimination differ in some respects. In general, religion, belief in life, sexual orientation, gender, and gender are factors that are not necessarily easy to identify. What you might expect to have in common with these factors and with gender expression is that they generally have nothing to do with the individual's functioning. There is a risk that these factors may lead to a person's not normally enjoying themselves at work because of negative stereotypes, which can be attributed to them regardless of the individual functioning of the individual. However, age, disability, and disability are factors that may generally affect the individual's ability to perform certain tasks and not others. Nevertheless, the same individuals may not get the same opportunities as others to perform tasks that are appropriate solely because of the negative image of age, disability, or impairment of working ability, rather than the individual employee's ability. Is this bill intended to prevent such discrimination? I'm not going to discuss the reasons that the bill is about, but it's a good report. However, I would like to point out that the regulations of the bill involved in different treatments on the basis of age in a domestic labour market will not be valid until July 1, 2019. This is because employers need to take steps to review age-related rules in collective agreements. These include age-related retirement rules and making changes in the terms of the bill, if necessary. There is a special obligation to prohibit discrimination in the job and at the time of recruitment, but this includes work conditions and other employees' remunerations. Furthermore, there is a special obligation to prohibit discrimination in terms of pay and other remuneration, but these principles have a pattern in a material comparable set of laws on equal status and equal rights between women and men. There is a special provision in which employers should take the appropriate measures when needed in a special case to enable disabled persons or persons with impaired skills to have access to and participate in a job, to have a career or to be trained, as if these measures were not too burdensome for a professional driver. A respectable president. The bill allows for certain abnormalities from the workforce's equal treatment principle regardless of race, nationality, religion, alive, disability, age, gender, gender, gender characteristics, or objective factors that may justify different treatments according to specific criteria. This includes the requirement that such activities have legitimate purpose and do not go beyond what is necessary. An example of such cases is the most appropriate requirement for a person to perform various tasks, such as police work or fire jobs. Another important point to consider is that a causal relationship must be between the differences considered by the individual and the specified factors. Thus, it has to be expected that employers can continue to act in the force of their administrative rights for many activities that affect employees without having discrimination as per the bill. In addition, most of the factors involved in the bill can be that it is not always possible to believe that a professional driver is aware of them as to his employees. Must therefore be expected that in such cases there would be no discrimination in the sense of the bill. Then the bill presents the same rule of evidence as found in law on equal status and male and female equal rights. Thus, the likelihood that discrimination according to the criteria of the bill should be determined by the person considered to have discrimination shows that the reasons for the underlying treatment are not related to any of the factors listed by the bill. A respectable president. The bill is aimed at working against discrimination and maintaining the equal treatment of individuals in the labour market regardless of race, nationality, religion, survival, disability, age, sexual orientation, gender, gender characteristics, and gender expression. It is therefore intended that public and commercial organisations should apply both to the general labour market so that decisions about the rights and duties of the labour market should always be made to respect the principles of equal management, even if different treatments are allowed in certain exceptional circumstances. In this way, the bill suggested that the first exchange be made in this country by increasing the legal protection of those who consider themselves indiscriminate in a labour market on the basis of reasons other than sex. A respectable president. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to the General and Education Committee. I encourage the committee to go over the matter well and hope that the council will bring it back quickly and well because this is a very important matter, and hopefully we can legalize it at this council before going to the end of the summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u168	Madam President. Thank you very much. A minister of excellent history and good interpretation of the bill and of the fact that I am very pleased that we are taking this step. But I would like to ask the highest. Minister to two things. First of 12, pars. an abnormality due to age. In fact, it is mentioned in 1st paragraph. the absence of differences based on age. This is what I think is a complete key and very important one. In everyday speech, we will be much more aware of the fact that differences are being made based on age in order to form when some age group is being hired for a particular job. However, we may not feel as strongly about this, and in some cases it is not as much about people over 67 years of age or 70 who are being denied employment participation or are simply being pushed out of a labour market almost by legal instructions. I want to go to the highest. Ministers on whether or not there is a question of whether or not they need to be made to change the law on rights and duties of public employees in accordance with these laws, i.e. put out the age - related provisions and rather leave some other more objective reasons than age dictates when you leave work. Then the 14th point. about deed rights, no ban on rights. This is also a very important point. I'd like to ask the Minister to to to tore it up in a short or long term whether he or the Ministry is concerned that this will affect the company of employees with their employers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u169	A respectable president. About the first episode of colic. A senator comes in, I think I'm good at reading 12. g., of age abnormalities, by permission of a respectable president: For age - related treatment, it is not considered to violate these laws to be grammatical arguments devoted to legitimate objectives, including employment policies or other occupational goals, since such actions will not go beyond the goals considered necessary. I think the comment is as good as any. A senator comes on about rights and duties, I think it's quite right to consider this and consider this and the committee will do it in the process of this case. But the article is quite clear in this regard. I think there's a reason to consider those factors as reason. A senator enters and urged the committee to do so. Regarding the second question about 14th paragraph. I have to admit that I didn't get the right question because I'm really getting out of time so I can wait. A senator repeating it so that I can answer it in a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u170	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. Let's start with the second article, that is, with no ban on rights. I agree that, of course, we should try to have law and rights so that it is difficult for people to give up their rights or they just can't. This is true in many ways, to form whether a person can simply give up a reward and thus gain an advantage of some kind, or almost at a cost, a advantage. What I asked the highest. The minister to swerve was whether this could result in restrictions on contracts or agreements when recruiting in this way. Because the law is very strong about this, so to speak. With regard to age abnormalities, the minister came to realize that the article is quite clear, that is correct. However, we do have, in my opinion, a number of songs of all sorts of nonverbal dating that I have actually spoken before from this platform that we should begin to think about getting rid of. Rather, we should use objective reasons either to stop working or to leave some particular job to form as the highest standard. A minister entered where specific physical abilities are required or something for the job. It could be much more challenging than a human tickling over one year on the life clock.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u171	A respectable president. For the first inquiry, or, in fact, the second inquiry, I don't necessarily see this happening as a matter of course. A senator comes on, but it's always possible, with the approval of both parties, you can do the most amazing things. With the first inquiry, I agree with the question. Senator. I think that's a very good reason to look at these factors as a matter of fact. There's a senator coming in. The comments involved in this matter include: that governments especially need to examine the 70 years'retirement rule in the staff laws and, for example, whether to continue or to establish objective reasons for the principle devoted to legitimate goals. There is reason to consider this in the process of doing this. But it would have to be with some kind of comment or hint, so that work would start in the future, since it does not really hear under this series or this law per se. But the comments that were left behind. A senator will bring in good and good reason to include the committee and follow up on other committees or government committees, or they will consider other changes at the same time. But suggestions regarding this matter will not be provided, clearly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u172	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for excellent advance. After some of our conversations, he is not surprised to see that we are not completely united, just on the same page. I have serious doubts, not just about this bill or, in fact, these two bills as the highest. A minister had a history above and could be discussed, in general, about our tendency at council to make laws for every name of human behavior. It's a path I don't like. It's only against the outlook on life that I have. What I'm afraid of might be one of the most when men go to such legal procedures, and I don't question that the purpose is good, that we can't share, that we don't reach the goals we're agreed on, to work against any discrimination, with this kind of legislation. There are even those who go so far, although I may now not completely agree to argue that they can even turn to their rebellious ways. What I may be worried about is that by setting specific laws on the other and this in many law columns, independent lyrics, to achieve good goals, we could be doing harm on others. We could be reducing the importance of the rules that our entire work is based on, the Republic's constitution, included. This is quite clear, and we all know of the sad cases that, unfortunately, people are sometimes discriminated against for various reasons, women and men, middle - aged and young, people of different religions, sexual orientations, etc. I think we should keep the discussion more in line to ask: " How can that be true when we have our foundation, the constitution itself, which forbids all such discrimination? By permission of the highest power. President, I'd like to read you 65 st. The constitution that puts it word for word: ▪ Everyone will be equal to law, enjoying human rights without regard to sex, religion, belief, ethnic background, race, color, economic, tribal, and otherwise status. Let women and men enjoy just as right. I realize we're going to discuss both the basics that have been discussed in detail, the committees are going to review them, and probably make some changes, and if I understand the highest points. A minister is now, rather, sharpening the committee to go beyond the initials he has proposed. Let's call it a day. But I think we need to ask ourselves regularly, not just when it comes to these bills, but in general in the legal process, whether the laws we are about to establish and accept, whether the law, the law itself, serves the purpose that we might agree to achieve. I'm afraid that in this case it's not, and there's some sort of self-divide in it. I think we need to consider, too, as I said earlier, whether this kind of law may be evicted or undermined by other laws, e.g. that the rights of men and women, which I held last year, would make, on the other hand, whether they would dilute and almost render us resistant to the rules of the constitution that we should naturally consider all things. This is a warning first. I'm not going to extend the discussion. This is being discussed by the council committees. I considered myself to be right and obliged to describe the doubts I have and then to take a material position likely in the book of Exodus. ... whenI see how the bills come from committees. True, I'm just a little worried about the urgency of a minister when he insists on going even further, and I'm feeling that I'm well gone. But in general, I sometimes feel, and as with most members of the council, we may not always ask ourselves these basic questions: Why are we making the law and what purpose and goals are we going to achieve? And are we convinced that one more law code will reach the goals that we are going to achieve and that we may agree to reach them?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u173	A respectable president. I thank the senator very much for his excellent speech. Always fun listening to a good, tight conservative man. Sometimes it could be more than just a matter, so I say, even if we don't always agree. In one place, I thought of it as a problem. A senator, though, goes off the edge of ideologies, I don't know if he's figured it out himself, that's why I'm coming up here where I want to hear his opinion on it. He named the Constitution and the Constitution's legislation. This legal bill deals with equal management of a workforce. I'm surprised if the senator really believes that the Constitution's regulations of the conduct of people in the labour market are always correct, i.e. that a person who feels that he or she is discriminated against by an employer that he can refer to the Constitution's equality laws in order to build his right before normal courts? There are differing opinions on these subjects. I'm a little surprised to hear that. A senator has that opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u174	Madam President. Now I'm not an expert on the law, it shall be accepted, but I've always seen that 65th par. The Constitution was always right, not just by law, but by society. This includes the workforce. It also includes other factors. It should be true that discrimination of any kind on the basis of sex, religion, color, origin, gender, sexual orientation, etc. is prohibited according to the rules of the constitution. True, there is a considerable amount of legalization, too, e.g. The songs that I quoted about the equal status of men and women which I believe were set in 2008, ensuring that equality is in the labour market. I'm just saying, I'm questioning that when people are here, they produce each law after another in the good and sincere purpose of preventing discrimination in certain national fields, they have reasons to work. I think we're bluffing, we're moving away from the discussion, and we're letting go of the problem because it's also a matter of mentality. I think mentality is far more important than the law that goes past us, with all due respect for all of us in this room.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u175	Madam President. I would so like to live in a society where no special laws would have to be passed so that all members of society would be seated at the same table in the community. Unfortunately, we don't have such a community. That is why I believe that it is very important to pass laws that are designed to equal the treatment of individuals of minority groups or cross-border groups. We may find ourselves in a future location where such laws will be unnecessary, but they are needed now. That's why I'm glad this bill is presented as well as the bill to the highest degree. A minister spoke earlier. I think it matters, but it may well be possible to improve them further in the work of the council and to perform a serious task. Committee of Congress. In fact, there are two things I want to do. Um, which I think is important to be examined specifically in the field of duty. The same is true of the Governing Body of Jehovah's Witnesses. Article 8 of which definition of disability is exposé. There are other conferences that are working on at this legislature, on the other hand, a bill for disabled persons who have a great need for support because the NAP legislation is within the table and a bill for community service. Now I've only been watching jobs what to do. With regard to their prime products, the management committee followed up discussions on the definition of the disability concept there. I think it's very important that the council fit in with the laws that are under consideration for this council and, of course, only in the general law. This is something that needs to be kept in touch with your finger, making sure that there is a correlation between different laws. Online, i.e. The definition of disability, I think it needs to be examined very carefully when it comes to the labour market and associated with the fact that disability is relative. V.E.G. In his background, a minister introduced the fact that the physical makeup of a person might influence whether he could handle certain tasks and specifically mention the work of police and firemen. I agree with this, but there is a relative disability, and there are jobs within these institutions that can be done well despite the fact that physical fitness may not be very strong or much, since there are various offices there as a person who uses a wheelchair to produce them can do a lot of good despite his disability. This is one of the things I think we need to keep our eyes on and through the articles in this bill. It may be said that this is more important to see how the matter might be made to look after the General's discussion and may even be the result of improving the situation and further ensuring that individuals get equal treatment in a workforce despite their social situation in other areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u176	Madam President. We're here discussing one of the most important matters of every government, financial policies to five years. We've spoken on behalf of the United States Wharf. paritaprevir Ágúst Ágústsson Águssson paritaprevir Mr. Oddný Harðardóttir, our deputies on the budget board and the Economic and Business Committee. They have taken a good look at their policy, pointing out that there are almost no stakeholders at peace and some 80 comments. The financial policy is called unrealistic, unfaithful, blurred, and threatening stability. Unexplained, says the National Association of Iceland, although this is one of the main objectives of financial policy. It is a document that governments need to follow, only some terrible events happen that can be avoided. That's why this document is important. But there is no way to talk about economicism without reflecting it with the government covenant and the most urgent work we are facing today. When considering the follow-up and the willingness, or failure, to earn new income, it is obvious that the most important tasks that at least can be met cannot be dealt with. The union highlights and others to whom we have directly committed ourselves, both within the country and internationally. But when financialism and the government's agreement are put together, I feel that there's a very dark picture, a picture of the right course that is actually run by the Independence Party. There will be research to determine how the group that has about a third of the votes and the largest ones in the country will always be able to lure new groups into their repairs and let them compromise their course. A year ago, there was a bright future and a restoration, and now it is progressive and left green, which are walking in rocks and appearing again as half-baked transformations. However, I am less surprised by the attitude of the advance party. There is good reason to commend the independent class for the results. He must be noteworthy for a long time. All the emphasis is on tax downs. It will affect economic stability. And the social stability that both we in the United States and the left greens talk about before elections is simply far away. We know the consequences well, including. those listed in interest indications: Possible higher interest rates and inflation rates, and payers and poorest people will still have to be left behind. And the measures that the government has proclaimed, e.g. on tax issues, aims primarily to improve the survival of most people who earn most of their income. This will inevitably call for agitation in the labour market. We're beginning to smell it in ourselves. I love Halldór Laxness, like many of us, and I'm sure have two, three times before, read here a quote from Brekkotti, which describes the situation in Iceland, 110-120 years ago, with the permission of a president: THE time I was about to arrive was at the foot a series of people today named refugees. They're fleeing the country. It sets out with tears from its homeland and built because it is so ill - prepared at home that its children do not mature but die. This brief quote crystallizes two things: On the one hand, what our situation in Iceland has certainly changed dramatically. This is the largest aspect of the world, the equality of the sexes, and the community's equipment is quite different. This, however, does not mean that things are being done and that they cannot be changed for the better. We need to reach out for those who have truly been left behind. On the other hand, this quote can also focus on two groups that are becoming victims of conflict and disaster and poverty elsewhere. We also need to be much more effective when it comes to them. It is not enough to just shout and shout that you want to. Not enough to talk about it before the election. In the end, it's the kind of work you're going to be judged of, and I really don't think that the beginning of this government partnership doesn't promise anything particularly good for us socialists who have spoken for it. While living things are generally good here, there is much more to be done, and the main issue is which categories of government. We're not living on the Hagues average, nor do we live in financial bases. Everyone who cannot sustain himself is important to the community. The whole focus is supposed to be on that group. We know, see and hear that a large number of ordinary employees, the elderly, the desperate, do not make ends meet, have to be deprived of medical care or other matters that are self - positive today. Then you have very poor young people. Many families are driven by infidelity, too expensive a rented market, with bad consequences for both family life and especially for their children. I think we should start to develop the habit of considering how everything we do with our children. The poor is a national embarrassment. It should be the government's first priority to improve the interests of these groups. That is why I have been very disappointed with my left - green political neighbors. It's no secret that in very large languages I share a vision with them, especially when it comes to the welfare system and how to build it up, how tax systems are to be built, and how financial policies should be run. I don't think this government has much place. There is simply none of these on her schedule. And on the contrary, she's going to lower taxes, I understand, at the top of the economy, on the way I mentioned earlier, which uses the most prosperous. In fact, reviews of finance policy, many point out how dangerous this government's inability to earn money is when we're in this place. Yet, the comments of the leading economic experts are not heard, nor are salary demands of a better standard of living being heard. I'm convinced that the way they do this is not merely a flimsy raise, what you get in your wallet, but also a social stability that enables us to live from cradle to grave without constantly worrying about the least shock. There have been labor movements, unions, and other employment stakes, including professional drivers, pointing out that it is a government project. As I mentioned earlier, we do not have a obligation just to the poorest people in Iceland. You see, we also have great responsibilities toward the world's affairs, both contractual and moral. Of course, in those days we were nothing more than economic refugees to the Western world. We should remember this and make much more an effort to receive refugees, as well as to provide very handsome development aid, and more than is being done today, and rather to approach the goal set out in a Senate resolution a few years ago. Looks like everything and there's little room for that, if likes do. At the same time, there was no promise in the last budget, and there seems to be no space in the middle of the longest economic growth in later years. Today, we also discussed sad reports about regulations written by the minister of justice, which still limits the rights of people who are in dire need. Although it may not be directly related to financial policy, it is all compatible. What a tragedy it is that we have to experience this! I'm surprised that the prime minister has not yet sent the tone to his fellow minister about it. Another such thing has now been done for a lesser reason. Madam President. Only then will the resolutions of the Independence Party, as discussed here in unsupervised inquirys, members of the council, and good if not also in the President's conference board. V.E.G. The minister of finance was surprised that we were discussing them here. I'm not. It's a large, powerful category, 1,000 to 1200 people meeting. Not many Icelandic political parties measure up to that fact. But above all else, he has, despite only 25 to 30% in the past few years, had all political losses and advantages, and even a leading socialist list seems to control everything. In this series of national meetings, it seems to us that they have been examined that it encourages the operation of bloody surgery rather than a multitracted infrastructure. During the next seven years, about 250 to 260 billion should be cut down, 10% of land production. That's not a smart-ass thing. Although it did not show up in this way in financial, financial, or financial contracts, you are quite afraid that something will grow in the way of cooperation if the basic ideas of the classes about the future differ as well as they are. And who would bleed if they went that way? The answer, for example, is in the government covenant. It refers to lowering the lower level. However, it will be most effective here as we have a high salary, much less and virtually none of the ones with the lowest salary. And also the conclusion that capital owners should be protected for inflation by changing the rules for how capital tax is laid, it will not make any money in the state's budget, at least to a very low degree. However, this will make those who own the money, own the money, even better an opportunity to mate and make a lot of money. It's even one of the reasons for tugging between income and possessions, the highest paid and the highest paid. I'm sure we'll regret the weekend when it's the highest. Secretary of finance is offering an answer to my inquiry. But this is in fact in little harmony with what the left of greens said before elections, and almost nothing harmonizes with a year - to - year talk, which in many respects was impressively delivered. But the contents were far from what we see here. Now the rope is between these two groups. Will we see the Independence Party succeed in following the conclusions of its grass under its grass? Or will we see the left green try to keep his campaign promise? Have they given up altogether? The answer to me is quite obvious. Here's the Independence Party. I'm basically against the policy of the party, but I'm afraid there will be a conclusion. Despite the fact that we've seen tremendous social revolutions in the last 110◯120 years, we've just got so bad that we're getting worse. They are totally at odds with the trend we have seen in the last 15 to520 years of the world. People's possessions are becoming so different. 1% of mankind has as much as the rest of it, 99%. In Iceland it's not that bad yet, luckily. Here we have only 5% of Icelanders with as much possessions as the other 95%. But this inequities is constantly increasing. The wealth is moving to fewer and fewer hands. We're supposed to reverse that trend. We're not supposed to be supporting her. In that light, I can take the initiative to answer that question as high as possible. Secretary of finance turned to the finish line. paritaprevir Unlafi Ágúst Ólafur of Ágústsson in answer: What about capital taxes? Where do you want to see him? I want to see him raise more, please. At least. At least I don't want to see an increase that will with a different formula, perhaps not lead to any income. But otherwise, we're supposed to be balanced, and I think everyone in this room wants to spend the lowest income and the average income. But I quite agree that my party, and that I kept left green, want to go further in the direction of earning money from those who really are able. You can just disagree, but that's the policy you've been wanting to follow. I've probably said that 20 times now, but I don't think there's any evidence that the current government is planning to go against the increase of wrongs. Therefore, by permission of the President, I allow me to quote the conclusions made by ASI, which led to the legal decision: A ASI economic study of the development of the tax burden of remuneration in the past 20 years makes it clear that the tax burden of remuneration has increased, and the greater the proportion of less earners is increased. How disappointing it is, then, that these trends are not addressed in the budget but, on the contrary, continued on the same path by reducing expenses for child development, growth reform, and housing! The level of taxes will continue to increase, as the equality of the tax system is further reduced. Worse yet, when it comes to social stability, the worst of them, the elderly, the farmers, young children's families, the government will make a lot of money. These people are kept waiting. I can't see that when it comes together, the budget, financial policies, and the government deal, there'll be no room to fix it. And there is no repeated promise to strengthen the infrastructure and public service. Of course, based on current sources, I have to wait till April 5. It may be that something in the financial budget is a bit different. I hope so. But I predict that we will see a lot of injections in some kind of infrastructure, roads, and other items that can be taken, such radical measures that can be taken from banks and so on. But we will see our health and education system and our improved systems will receive much less than would have been necessary. Now I'm running out of time. I want to use the last two seconds to ask you what. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir: What's the point of fighting?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u177	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The President of the United States, the Logi of Einarsson, this speech. First, there was a why. A member of a number of reviews on the subject. True, they were critical. I can't say in any way that they necessarily included the sentence of blame. A member of the Parliament quoted and quoted mainly a minor representative of the United Nations at night. It's a legal committee. Most of us agreed that our policy may be based on a full - out view of the Habitat project. There are critical prospects. I can agree with that. It will be a balance art, to bring back a positive outcome, as the policy shows, and to trust in social stability here as planned. That's what we're doing. A senator agrees. Hv. A senator came in to say that it had been easy. I can't agree with that. There was an increase in the quality of the health system on the last funds and plans to do better when it comes to child reforms and maternity vacations. So there are a lot of things being done in this direction. I want to ask you why. A member in particular as he is very concerned with improving the terms of the lowest-payers, those who have lost the terms, as well as on the upper-level policy list. Governments and policy shows that income taxes should be lowered to lower lower levels: How can the problem be? A senator may argue that there is no point in benefiting from those who have less pay?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u178	Madam President. Of course it does come about by some means. But it feels bad. A senator would be fair enough to have a 300-point average. K. per month, you think you'll get an extra $4000 a month while the two of us get 15 grand? Which is very useful. I don't think so. But this simply shows a fundamental difference in how we view society. If the pizza were four times more expensive, if it were a income, it might be okay, but it's not. Necessary is not. As a result, they are more and more expensive to poor people who do not make ends meet. I agree completely with what. A senator, of course, saw in financial terms that the government was improving the health and education systems. Of course. But that was in no way enough. What I'm talking about is that we deal primarily with the sickest ones in our communities. We have a poor child reform system, a poor growth reform system, which is still the two systems that have been most efficient when it comes to earning a lot of money. The government is posting income from the last donated budget of some 201⁄230 billion. In fact, the left - green environmental class accepted the reduction of carbon costs, less than 50%. Might it have been good if we had them money now to attack these things?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u179	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. A fundamental difference? Hv. A senator entered the reform systems. I agree on the foundation when it comes to the child-replacement system. It can be very useful. We're supposed to do good there. But the growth reform system as it has been built has proved to be very inaccessible. Then I'd like to ask who. A senator's opinion of this growth reform system has actually gone to those who have been in debt, not necessarily to those who have the lowest interest. What changes does he envision in this regard? And because it's here on policy, where there's no unemployment, there's plans to cut insurance. What do you think? A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u180	Madam President. No doubt, the criticism that has been on the growth system will have to be taken into account so that it will certainly reach out for those who fail. There, I'll be working faithfully with the board if people want to improve the system and raise the money to it. I think 26 of the U.S. heads of banks are being paid one-quarter of today's growth reform system. Well, that might say something. In terms of the insurance bill, I agree completely with that. Senator. For more than 20 years, I myself have run a business, a small business that is almost entirely private. It's just a salary. It would be a very efficient operation and I would support the government in every step of the bill reduction.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u181	Madam President. I think the time point is coming when we can stop talking about our being at the top of the economy. It's been getting cold. In 2016, Iceland's economy was 7.4%, if I remember correctly, as in India, the world's greatest. But now we're somewhere else. I think we have to start talking about the reality that we're getting over it, we're getting to a different place than we've been in the last few years. I'm worried about that when we're getting reviews and looking at pay ratios, the rates of pay, in Iceland based on national production, that's 62%. In Norway it is 55%, and in general it seems to be around the line. In Iceland, that's the ratio that pays a huge amount of money. This is a ratio of concern. If we are now discussing the budget and the financial policy related to it, then the Icelandic legend has never been so much for the well - being of years, health services, and such factors. Real interest in welfare was 13% in the 2018 budget, 12% in health care, and much was added to education. This would probably count about 70-80% added to the budget for these lawsuits. Then, in many places, we complain about transportation and other activities, investments. The actual growth of state funds over the last two years has been 81⁄28.5% both years. This is almost unprecedented to be maintained. I'm asking why. A senator: How does he see economicism? What's to be changed? Where to Get the IRS? How do you deal with this? What are ideas? A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u182	Madam President. At the top of the economy, or about to roll down the slope we know all too well, these enormous hills and lows. What if we go into the water very quickly? What future, then, are humans going to use? Then what will be under the knife first? Of course, that will be the welfare system. Despite everything, there's still a pretty good economy here, and money could have been made. At the very least, it would have been possible to avoid giving after the 203/430 billion that is being done. We've talked about the income of resources. We've been talking about environmental taxes. We've talked about three steps in the income tax system. We've been talking about a big estate tax. It's no secret. But the worst thing you do, and it's in your reviews, in situations you're not mixing, and in ways that are understandable, because of the use of national resources in the interior, or when you're going into expenses and making money for them. It's the only way. It's very dangerous to just keep walking around. We agreed, though, that it might have been reduced a little, about 61⁄2 billion, or something like that. That's what the former secretary of finance talked about. I'm worried that if we're sliding down the curve, we might get into a straitjacket, as they say. And where's it going? So a senator cutting down?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u183	Madam President. Maybe I'd like to take the discussion back. When we were discussing a government budget last spring, we talked a lot, and there was a lot of criticism, about respect for tourism. That's what I'm talking about. A senator still believes that it would have been the right step to take in the big changes that were then in the discussion of raising the value? Is that what it is? A senator is primarily focusing on; the sum of money for tourism, fishing costs, and such factors? I'd rather you were. A candidate will take them on or on such a course based on the situation and the basis for the operation in those sectors today and on the changes that have taken place much faster in the company's environment since our last spring?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u184	Madam President. I'm going to leave it a little between parts of the way income is made by tourism, but one thing is certain that it has to be done somehow. [[Foreground on: Yes.]] It's gonna cost you, too. And whether or not they do this by comings, fittings, or, perhaps, the most simply raising the value, it can only be discussed and agreed on with the industry, as it is called. But do you remember a conversation with a job, which simply says yes to spells? No. One day, the government has to decide. You always say, "It's not the time." You see, it was the right time to do this four, five years ago when we were on our way up, when this industry was pulling everything away. Now the valley may become tough, and this can be difficult. But somehow, we need to get our hands on this. In terms of fishing costs, we have not exactly talked about hunting fees. We've talked about having the developer decide for herself what to pay so that she paid a lot when she could pay a lot but little when she had little money to pay.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u185	A respectable president. There's one thing I found that is very positive in financial policy that I wanted to talk to you about. A senator. It's part of a community. You see, there's a difference between financial policy this year and last year, society in the current policy area being much more plus the previous policy. Last year, they said that based on the predictions given in the financial policy, they would not achieve it. Now it is not enough to catch her. It is the result that goes up. This is interesting to me in view of the fact that the European Union of Iceland also says that the A-part of the rural society is unsuspectable, in view of the definition that they are not both capable of developing or building, and that they can provide the service. They must set priorities that way. Still, they have set priorities in that they have improved their survival. What I've heard so many times now about the local election process is that the local community situation is very bad. It certainly is in a few rural communities. But the main reason for the development of the entire community today is that it is expected in the last financial policy is Reykjavíkurburg, which is the natural largest part. I both feel very positive about how the deportation of the rural community comes out and is dangerous, because we need to consider that the A-part is self-sustaining, which I can't see at financial policy. Because of this, people's concern is that a particular business is involved, their financial policy confirms that it is not. I wanted to have a place to say. Senator on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u186	Madam President. Yeah, I saw that, too. It's a pleasure to have a community benefit. But there's a picture that's very fragile. Hv. A senator spoke of the A section and the B section. I'm assuming improved recovery is due to more work, higher work, and then a stronger position on the B-part of the enterprise. Part of the A business is just in trouble and trouble. The rural communities have been taking one task after another from a state without having enough money. The U.S. Senate Service is driven by the losses of the rural groups that fire it, and there are many patients in a bad position. And then if you compare your salary, from your community to your country, you will find that people who work at your farms are less paid than government employees, since your communities simply don't have the money to pay the same amount of money. It is unnatural and, of course, undesirable. As a matter of fact, I think one of the most urgent projects today is to revise entirely from the foundation of the country's income exchanges. Farmers have virtually no chance of earning money if something unexpected comes up, if they are going to raise their pay or they're going to have some serious problem. So it's fragile. I think that's really why the relationship points to this, because it's very soon to change. Farmers have little chance of reacting if things go on the wrong side.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u187	A respectable president. It is a very interesting subject to consider in financial policy. There is really no way that this should be fixed. We're dealing with this problem in so many areas, in discussions about matters we're in here at council, these gray areas that are simply solved by the state's monopolizeing and giving bites - it's as if our rural communities are in a fixed self-solid or poverty trap where they're dependent on some equation or some kind of equation to get in and out, to do their service and accomplish as indicated by the Union of Icelandic rural society. I miss having no plan to this level, not only the state is self-sustained, and in fact, because it's starving the communities, but that both these levels of the public are sustainable, both state and rural. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u188	Madam President. Yeah. The fact that the state does not provide enough money with the services it assigns to a community of largely damaged rural areas. Farmers are highly dependent on competing with one another and, of course, in foreign lands. If I take an example of Akureyri, the city of Akureyri will pay about 4,400,500 million with aging services every year, for the day's dues will be only the right to pay. What does that mean? Yes, money must be taken from other places. Naturally, you do not take your money out of the legal service but it is illegal. They are made up of sports, culture, social services for the elderly, and various things that have contributed to their competitiveness and, of course, improved quality of life. The government's not supposed to put a community in this position. I think it's going to take some. paritaprevir Will Trausti Friðbertsson join me, at least there.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u189	Madam President. We'll talk about finance policy before 2018,022. I have followed the discussion carefully and have tried to figure out what it is that is exactly what humans have been trying to criticize and how they have wanted to deal with the factors that they feel are going through. I'm sorry, I've had a lot of discussions about finance policy next time, i.e. The budget policy that was submitted in 2017, at least a great deal of time, has been spent trying to compare them together, but not really enough. Because while the percentages are relatively low, people might think that they are the devil's, forgive me, Madam President, there would be virtually no difference between these two financial matters, but it is entirely wrong that he is considerable. The difference to make up for the total wealth of the state during the five years that economicism embraces is 50 billion. It's there at the time that the direction reaches about 50 billion that are expected to be less effective in this financial policy than in the other. What do you think? Senators that the present government and government groups are considering doing this difference? This has already been discussed and discussed. Generals: We're going to use this money to improve the infrastructure and to strengthen the social system. There's nothing more complicated than that. And they cannot say in the Sermon on the Mount that there is no difference and there is nothing to be done because it is entirely wrong. It is also made clear in this financial policy that the payment of the official debt is being reduced for the same purpose, in order to have a table for handling the factors that arise. Councilmen have rightly mentioned. There are problems with social factors. There are problems with how we have made the infrastructure pay too much for the financial collapse, etc. But on these factors, the plan is to make changes in financial policy. It's very important. Councilmen, the fact that this is true and that it really is fundamental. The weaknesses of this financial policy may be those involved in the communities. I think that, in this case, the nature of the case may be more difficult for the Ministry of finance or the State to predict exactly how your rural society will be going because the Ministry of finance and the State has the authority, it does not work as well as the financial resources of the State itself. For example, I allow myself to doubt that my community will, as the policy shows, be able to pay any amount of debt. Another factor that has rightly been mentioned in the discussion is that this is a plan, based on predictions and predictions that are naturally never complete. Nevertheless, I would like to reiterate, Madam President, that here we have a financial policy that basically looks to factors other than the financial policy that lay before the spring of 2017.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u190	A respectable president. This is interesting, just because earlier financial policy and present have been compared a little. Normally, that would not be possible because there were four years between each other and not a number of comparators really. This may be normal because we have just gone through a financial policy process that allows us to compare them with one another. Granted, there is not much difference in size between the numbers displayed in the overall recovery, although there are a lot of billions behind every 0.1% of them, whereas the result does not say how many billions of governments have settled after all. A lower total financial policy may simply have a lower income from a tax deposit or a collection, etc. while the larger number simply has more currency and holds that part there. It does not necessarily say that this financial policy has 50 billion more than the others, but not necessarily, especially when it is set in this policy to reduce taxes. There was not much in the past financial policy, but it was not quite as decisive as it was. My main criticism, however, has been that they need a report and an explanation of how financial policy measures up the baseline. Then I wanted to ask you why. A senator: Where is she?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u191	Madam President. When you ask a big one. Maybe it's the first time. One senator concluded that it was difficult to determine exactly how many billions of these were. The billions I figure out are natural, based on the assumption that we have a similar cookie from year to year, i.e. There are no fundamental changes in the amount, and thus we rush forward until 2022. In the opinion of more part of the budget like what to do. A senator is aware of the initials and, indeed, the proposal itself. As the senator knows about them, these terms, the very beginnings he mentions, I'm here with a minor opinion. Senator, stability, caution, self-sustaining, etc., relatively validation. That's why it may be difficult to put exactly the finger on it, is it that the government fund is adding up to 1% in one year sufficient self-sustaining? Is that sufficiently stable? I think that even though the law, as the senator's office puts it, it's always extremely difficult to put our finger on it and answer whether we were right now to follow them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u192	A respectable president. At baseline, there is a basic explanation of them on official financial laws, but governments can make them more specific. Then they set a policy and explain how the policy meets the baseline values. That's this explanation I can't find, the report on how the baselines are fulfilled. I'm saying she needs it. It's here a definition of transparency, I make a few comments to it, I don't think it's really limited, but okay, I accept it. There are several committees, but usually it is said to make policy progress. Lowering debt is self-sustaining. But that's not really true. It may be true, I can agree, but it's no problem to argue it. All we need is logic. That's what I'm pointing at. Hv. A senator assumes no fundamental change in how many billion this policy goes above the rest. But this is simply a financial policy, in itself to be a fundamental change, I would think. It is part of the criticism of a financial body that economic policy is then not taken away and used to reevaluate the economy. It is as if financialism simply has zero impact. I'd say that policy itself is a fundamental change. As a result, it is a bit difficult to compare just these final numbers, the billions, with the idea of doing so. This may be more evident in the financial program.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u193	Madam President. That's where we met. A senator just had a nail on his head. It is, in fact, difficult to make sure that they have applied baseline values or that they are fully in financial policy until the financial agenda is established. The Senator may have meant something else, but that's how I understood him. [[Up front.]] I think, as stated in the opinion of a financial council, as it puts it, that the preferred policy would be to take more into account the baselines, but normally they don't trust to go further because if we were to nail it better down and go deeper into keeping it exactly after the values, they would just have to be some scale on them. It could not be otherwise, and it could never be said: Yes, we followed them because it fits in clearly. But I believe that it was with the will of the law that it wasn't taken deeper than that. However, this may be just around the corner. A senator should be more specific. I'm willing to have at some point a conversation with the senator about whether it should be. Anyway, I think what's going on in this financial policy is a change of policy and I'll let myself claim it here that I don't believe that responsible politicians would have wanted to be deposed between this financial policy and those before. I don't believe it, but it's still quite a change.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u194	Madam President. Let me tell you how I wanted to start this talk. I was going to start her by very much thanking the members of the administrations here for being present at my talk because these were the representatives of all the administrations. I also wanted to thank the highest. Secretary of the budget is very happy to be seen and heard of. Sadly, though, this speech must be very different from the fact that here is only a representative of the two administrations in the government, not the forward party, and the Supreme Court. The secretary of finance has chosen to leave the hall at the time as the only member of the council who makes written adjustments in his financial policy steps in a pita. I think I'm the first general of the council. Secretary of finance prefers not to listen. I'm wondering if this is a coincidence, whether it's his idea of respect for the senator who stands here. All right. I'm not going to have a long discussion about the President's conference board. It has clearly been made clear that a minister's presence is desired here and if he chooses to ignore it, it is his waste or shame, according to the way he chooses to view it. I once had a seat in the government with the highest power. The secretary of finance, which is not here and in that government, we set up a financial policy as well as a national financial programme. Together it was called a series of words, called liberalism, extreme rightism, starvingism. Some of these words, in fact, I don't view as hurtful, I don't think it's bad to be called a liberal, so I just say it directly. I don't think it's bad to be called the right man, either, I don't think it's bad to be blamed on starving policy. There's a plan I don't recognize. But, as I say, I didn't take it as a waste, but it was definitely meant that way. And what did the Independence Party do to the members and to the person who used that word, starving policy? Yes, he offered her the prime minister, making the chairman of the left movement a green offer for prime minister. And now the Independence Party sits in a radical socialist board. [[Up front.]] There is a radical socialist in the position of prime minister. What's the government's name then? A radical socialist control. And he puts in a financial program that is much more in harmony with that policy, naturally. Some people like her, others don't. As a right man, I have a guide in my life, and there are all those comments I read with more attention than others without me always making those opinions my own. Even so, when I see reviews from a business agency or a financial agency that is common in many places, I listen. Without proof that I have read these reviews by quoting their material, there is something in common in many of them, and it is criticized that the maintenance of the state funds is not enough. That's the point of this criticism. When I watched this discussion a year ago when I was at the highest level. the local minister of finance, the best financial secretary of the history of Iceland, Benedikt Jóhannesson, sat in this seat and succeeded members of the council as I considered clever, simply asking members of the council whether they were opposed to the financial policies established and how they wanted their own financial policy to look. In the next five years, how would they want the complete wealth of the Kingdom? Then there were few answers at times. Where I expected to be the highest. The minister of finance would be here in the hall, and perhaps even face me, perhaps using the same attitude, I wanted to prepare for it. The best preparation is simply to create an adjustment proposal that would tell you how I would choose to have the government's financial policy until the next five years. Of course, the proposal presented here is moderate optimistic, but the advantage of offering it in this way, even though it also brings risks, is that it is difficult to argue with numbers. We'll set out how we're going to build this up, and hopefully more members of Congress, inside and out of control, would like to have it. If I go through not only the development of the adjustment proposal but each of the thoughts behind it and what the difference is between these two, this indistinguishable policy of the government and this considerably more responsible course set up by the Parliaments of Reunion, we assume, basically, that the total of state funds in the next five years will be the same as the proportion of GDP that was expected in the financial policy proposed. We assume that the product of the Kingdom Fund will be the same. Then there is another one. As private members of Parliament, we do not have a basis to question the external circumstances of the Ministry of finance. For example, we do not have a premise to estimate that the overall survival of a community will be someone other than laid out because it does not govern a government fund. Similarly, despite the fact that the criticism of a business council is in a way that may be too optimistic when assuming the contribution of public enterprises to be, there is not enough logic, we do not have a basis for questioning it and making any other figures. That's why we're breaking up with that part completely unchanged. We expect the same contribution from the Kingdom Fund that was given, and everything else is simply a result of it. However, the second adjustment that we must make, and I think should have good support, at least for the Independence Party, if it is based on its national meetings, we are entitled to the 3rd Amendment: ▪ All irregular and uniting funds in the state's budget will be spent to further speed up debt or to reduce unfunded pension bonds in order to trust the financial status of the state's budget and reduce interest costs. It's been canceled, i.e. This is no longer included in the proposed proposal, since it is assumed to be less than the total pay of the state and including the slower subsidies of debt. Madam President. The budget set up during the last term expected specific external circumstances. That's the highest. The prime minister, the present financial minister, who I thank for being in the room to listen to me, said something about the fact that the policy there was, if anything, not sufficiently conservative under the circumstances. The fact is, it hasn't changed much in the external circumstances of the state funds requiring changes, at least not in the kind of place where this is laid up, not at all. The only changes that have taken place are obviously political changes, that is obvious to all, changes that have taken place are political changes. The Independence Party Government, now in command of the left movement, has to do with a green supply and the forwarding team, a radical socialist regime, as I said earlier, now needs to use other means of government. I believe that I know what a general member of the Independence Party feels about this GDP policy, unchanged, of course, people realize the political reality, but it is not possible to read from the independent group or the general independent individual to the extent of the approach taken here, for example. The conclusion of the last national meeting, which had been significantly higher on the brakes than previously done. It's a gift, of course. Madam President. I think that a lot of my proposal and most, in fact, should be that most members of this council, in general, should agree with it and accept that it is a much more responsible financial policy than the one proposed by the government. It's about the goods of state funds. I think that despite the fact that I've been talking a lot about maintenance, there's nothing in this course that, for example, is. The members of the Union or the Pirata, or the Central Party, or the Gang, could not agree because one of the things changed from the last, is no longer a roof on the state's overall activity. Although I was there, I thought it would be unlikely to succeed during that council. So if someone wants to go to the great building project, he simply needs to make money through tax returns. To me, the truth is, a much more honest approach to things. If we really want to go to this building, it is only natural that it is paid for now and that we now pay debt at a time when we are truly in a good position to do so. Do we really believe that after five or ten years, we will be in a better position to pay off debt? I don't think so. Hence, at this point it is necessary to pay off debt, not slow down that trend, not reduce the share of the state funds, not at all. I know and believe that what is presented here is a much better approach to how the entire wealth of the Kingdom should be done. Then some may ask: " What will you want to do in return, or how do you picture it? The groups here do not have to share that view; some may want to see less expenses or increase certain taxes. That's not a point. The reason we once set a law on government finance was to try to separate these things, try to look first at the total wealth, and make that decision before deciding which way to build, which school to grow, etc. Madam President. Finally, I'd like to mention that, of course, we've been through these stages before. We've been in that place where the government fund in blundering goods has taken on large expenditures and grown very quickly instead of paying off debts. That was ten years ago, and now the Independence Party has a golden opportunity not to repeat the same mistake. Unfortunately, he's dropping it down to my knowledge. Sadly, instead of paying off debt, he expands his public expenses. And what happens when things slow down? Yes, then a hospital building will have to be delayed, and then students will have to be laid off at the university. Then public activity must be reduced, but not at a time when it might have been good to do so and to reduce taxes to promote economic growth. I hope the secretary of finance keeps this adjustment proposal that I put on the table here with him, he can keep it with him and think of it if everything goes wrong, that he could have taken the good advice he was given. Unfortunately, it may not necessarily be his or his party to clean up after this irresponsible course but possibly the prime minister of the Þorgerður of Gunnarsdóttir's Katrín, Ágústsson Ólafur's son, the secretary of finance, and others who will follow that radical socialist regime. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u195	A respectable president. I now thank you for the suggestion to discuss because the discussion so far has been the most important factor in reading from earlier committees and finding the proposal to the council, not to mention what it is that they want to see in return. So here's a suggestion that the state's funds give more rest, about 10 billion, more than what the government has put in place in its policy and that there will be something faster about paying off debt. To me, it is obvious that if you want to pay off debt with greater force than you are doing, there will be 10 billion in the environ ment of the state that there will be very little in that effort. The big thing we can do is cut off the government's property on finance. I'd like to call for a point of view. A senator on this and whether he agrees with me in that the big opportunity to pay up debt lies in reducing the affairs of the state of the financial market. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u196	Madam President. I can make the most of it. The minister of finance, by my excellent category at his district convention for the last weekend, agreed with a policy that is very clear in these matters, which is simply described by the words: Sell the banks. So, yes, I'm comfortable with the idea of releasing the state's ownership department in the banks and using them to pay off debts. I'm even clearer in my proposal than the government is, because this is clearly stated that the total irregular financial supply of state funds is spent on subsidies. Of course, that's the way it is. Secretary of finance, the big part of this because that's the way to reduce debt a lot faster. The other is also true that the argument can always be used that there are 10 billion more is not that much. But the additional 10 billion that we now pay is possibly 10 billion that make space when we need it for the next downturn.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u197	A respectable president. It is good that there is support in the council to release the government's ownership of financial companies, and it is written in a collaborated agreement or in the Treaty. I just want to keep it in place that payment is one of the government's key projects. She took action on that subject as early as her first day and paid up a foreign loan, and she went on to the foreign stock market to show access to the market and to receive the best market that the Icelandic government has ever got in a foreign edition. At the same time, continued payment is expected to be about 40 billion this year, and it is assumed that debt will continue to be reduced. In addition, I was a special spokesman for the fact that we would enter a law on public finances, which was a very controversial matter, especially on the side of the United States that I was told was in shock. A senator wants to cooperate.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u198	Madam President. I now think and hope that the agreement on public financial law may be slightly higher in reality than people give up discussions like this. I hope so, I hope so. For what was observed in the highest range. Then a minister would do well to discuss the release of property shares in the government contracts, and I wish him any good success when it comes to actually doing so because we know that there is, of course, a situation in one government group to do so. Was there another question that the secretary of finance had? Then I'll thank you very much for the verbal exchange.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u199	A respectable president. I wanted to discuss this change of plans. A senator suggested, it is very interesting to do so, in view of the reviews we have received, that it would definitely be a good idea to increase the hold of the State by returning an increasing amount of rest. But that's not the only thing that would really be necessary, there could also be other practice sessions in this regard by strengthening farms, etc. In any case, this is a good effort. One thing I kept in mind about earlier financial policies was a law that all irregularly divided funds should be spent in debt. Then I refer to the review of the financial council that encourages a great deal more of cost-and-benefit analysis. It is very easy to see the profit of paying off debt quickly. But there may be other projects that could make more money than paying off debts. We need more evidence to cooperate. Therefore, I object only to the necessity that all irregular sums of cash should be spent in debt. It could be projects that would make more money than a decrease in debt.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u200	Madam President. Some things are not just a matter of technology and approach on academic terms, some of which are just a matter of specific ideologies. I confess that my ideologies at this place in the economy, in this place in the way public financial issues appear to me, is that it is simply right to use all the funds that fall outside the regular government business of paying off debt. There may be a time when that would not be my conclusion. But at the moment, I believe that this is the right thing to do. If the senator feels that this is too far and beyond my grasp, I encourage him to vote on this proposal, continuously the two, but not to agree with the third party of the proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u201	Mr. President. I can just imagine a similar article as this one, since all irregularity of exchange is usually provided for the most profitable projects each time. It could be a Diving Road, a tunnel on the West, or the East, or whatever it is now. However, we have no evidence of what is profitable for us to have easy access as a body of Congress. The most obvious example, then, is the payment of debt. It's so easy to figure out what it's worth, it's very easy to get drunk. The other is far more difficult and requires a little more preparation than, of course, we should do the same. Yes, it could be. The increase of the government is, according to sources, something called in advance. It seems to me that it would remember about 5 to 6 million or so or before 2018, between 1.4 and 1.6 if you can confirm it. [[The president calls.]] However, by other means it may be possible to achieve this increase in education and health systems that we plan to, but only then, as well. A senator said, with an increase in currency. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u202	Madam President. I confess that I am a man of clear and unconcerned claims, especially when it comes to financial matters. The statement presented here is relatively inexhaustible. It does not require much commissioning work before we decide whether these terms of Congress have been fulfilled. [[Up front.]] Yeah. I take only an example of what is said in the proposal laid out here by the government on a comparable point regarding the scope of the government: Achieving the scope of public activity through the period will contribute to economic stability. What does that mean? When would a government ever recognize its decision to cross the bounds of economic stability? That would never happen. It doesn't say anything like that. This cannot be put in any Excel client. There is no way to draw conclusions about the survival of a Kingdom fund. It's just put in to hide better what's been taken out.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u203	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek's fancy speech, very perceptive, as well as a compliment to the adjustment of plans. A senator and his party, which are presented here, because, as with the review of financial counsel as well. A senator referred to them will make the discussion more specific when something is fundamental, although it can certainly be difficult to argue about numbers like that. A senator pointed out. Hv. A senator also referred to the reviews of a business council and the Association of Professional Affairs, saying that when it comes to reviewing these sources, he was more likely to listen. It is true that the phase of maintenance is critical, that it is not enough. This is quite clear in the change of plans that debt should be paid faster and more left and the rest should go to it. What, though, about the maintenance when it comes to expenses? [[The president calls.]] Head's at the top. The existing government is a trust in social stability. Where does he want it? A senator cuts down?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u204	Madam President. The question of where? A senator wants to cut down the first page of a political textbook. Maybe I'd like to pray. A senator about going back to the book because I am now only a little older in this discussion than that. The idea of a government law is just beginning to set aside the total income and payment of a government fund so that we don't need a discussion on which school I am. A senator wants to close and what school I want to open. There's something that would appear in a national financial programme. There's something that would show up in the papers. It would cover the discussion considerably better if we did not have to take up a discussion of some 500 billion to or from a specific project on budget. Rather, we might have formed our own frame before. That's what I propose to be done. That's why I won't answer questions about where I'd cut down. That's gonna happen when I put out my own financial plans and my own budget. That's a joke, huh? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u205	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer, and I'm glad to hear it. A senator is already working on a national budget plan and implementation of the location of the application, increasing the support of state expenses. That's very clear on the top. Governments in this area are expected to rely on social stability and to enter an amazing structure that reflected well in the campaign. This may point to a larger frame of their subjects than to an accurate implementation in a financial program. But let's call it a day. Because the adjustment of the proposal to pay debt faster down is here a very interesting review of Dr. Ólafur Margeirsson's son, who I don't know at any given moment. A senator has studied, but these are now more speculations; she was a little confused about other comments. But it claims that Dr. Ólafur Margeirsson's commitments to the State Fund in Iceland are always manageable from an economic point of view and therefore no need for state funds to save today in order to have public projects when the present economy ends. This is more speculation than a direct question about this view, the debt of Icelandic government funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u206	A respectable president. Just the right to address the social stability issue. I think, as I said in my speech, it would be best to do that, if they really want extra expenses on their case, to finance them with taxes, and, in fact, can be done within the framework of the budget I've proposed. All you have to do is make money back. Although it's easy to argue about numbers, sometimes I think it's even easier to argue when they're not there. I hope I've helped you now. Regarding the comments of Dr. Ólafur Margeirsson, the senator puts me in a rather difficult position to address some comments here. I know of Dr. Ólafur Margeirsson's ideas, and most of the time I haven't made them mine, it may answer that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u207	Mr. President. Thank you for your excellent conversation. I want to celebrate as a boy. A senator entered in on the maintenance phase. There are few who have not talked about the maintenance phase of this discussion. This debate is widely presented in the headlines, and it is not sufficient for the main economists, they come and comment on these objects, the maintenance phase is not enough. Maybe a little short, moving fast. In terms of the proposed change, it seems to me that these are 4,443 billion, which are being proposed in financial policy, with a mental account, and that this would be the same number in 2020 as a ratio, 30%, or below, and as a result. A senator proposes 24% in 2022, but the government is heading for 25% in 2022. That's 1%. The difference is 1.5 percent of the difference seems to me by land production. That's all. Maybe I'll ask you another question later.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u208	A respectable president. In fact, I prefer that the figure for the government on the other hand is 25.0% and 23.3% in the motion given by me and the members of the Relations, however, we actually write in the proposal below 24% somehow in the respect of the number of market digits, if I can say so. Of course, there is always a question of whether there is more or less. Clearly, one number is lower than another. That's clearly so that the maintenance phase of this policy is more. I'm sorry, but there was a question. A senator of mine. She'll just come back.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u209	Mr. President. We received envelopes in many parts of the world that last year, whether we discussed a government budget last spring or a budget, and now we're discussing the financial policy for the second time in two years. It's turning to Iceland's infrastructure. There has been a lot of debate about growth and other aspects ofinvestment. What do you think? A senator with the discussion that turns to the entrance of transportation and fruitfulness where they are decrupling? Is it possible that it would be clever, intelligent, to take them on rather than pay off the State debt in the present state under the circumstances or conditions we have in our transport? In case of a moment. A senator would like to share that with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u210	A respectable president. As I've said before, this debate over the total wealth, not to which individual projects we are going to make money. My opinion is that if you want to choose that every one of these crowns would go on a mere transportation bonus paying off debt, then I'll just be a conservative carbine and say that I'd rather use that money to pay off debt. However, within the framework of this suggestion, the government at the same time can increase taxes and spend money on transport projects or decide to cut down on one area and further into the infrastructure. But I'm saying, in fact, it was the pack of dogs. A senator who made it his policy to increase his government spending by 100 billion and put it into the infrastructure, not the group of the people standing here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u211	Mr. President. I'd like to see here that there's a field of employment or occupation in this relationship that plays a major part in our economic affairs, actually the most important part, there's a man to determine what it is. The development of tourism in the country, of course, takes into account the development of a financial policy. Its translation into the economy is very profound. The chairman of the legal committee, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, took his lead in the Hall of Congress yesterday. It is true that tourism will continue to grow but more slowly than in the early 2010 years when hyperplasia began as we all know it. Over the course of five years, the number of tourists may increase to a total of 3◯4 million per year compared to 10% of average growth per year. Of course, the number could be higher. It is difficult to predict the world's economic conditions and other factors that affect tourism. It is imperative that we intend to subscribe to everything that attracts the travel service. That's the main objective of myself that I mean, the very essence of the tourism service, that's, of course, sustainable tourism that we don't tire of repeating. I would like to remind you that there are three fields of value, that is natural, social, and financial. I'd also like to remind you that there is no end to the heavens in any of these values, either here on land or anywhere else in the world. Therefore, I want to remind us again of the limitations in these areas. We can foresee nearly ten times the number of tourists that the nation considers themselves to be five years from now, as I mentioned, 3◯4 million, or even more. Then I ask you, will the limit of resistance rest at this point in history? Is the sustainability found in this number, e.g., 33/4 million or greater? Of course, such things must be considered and considered and taken into account in politics. It's not a simple project, but we have no choice. Now two projects are done on the top. A travel minister, and she said for another reason today. One of them is almost finished or fully finished, that is a report I received here on the limit of tolerability and access control and the other project is a major analysis project on long-term tolerance for tourism and a number of things they call. Both of these reports are going to be of great benefit to the legislature and to the Commission in my opinion. I'm stressing the tolerability of travel services in all discussions about fiscal policy and for very obvious reasons, I'm going to name three. Tolerance means that there is no uninterrupted growth in tourism, e.g. Up to 7◯10 million tourists a year. That's where I think we've crossed the boundaries. Tolerance means that resource spending, the basis for tourism itself, must be guided by sustainability exactly as with other resource resources in this country. Tolerance means that we must limit the structure of air services to and from the country in the end. Unbound growth is hardly available there. Or what? This means that, in the near future, a review of government policy will have to be made. The effects of tourism on the economy will change over the years. This effect is not currently predictable, and tourism has its limits to other sectoral activities, both policy and strategy, e.g. A national budget plan. In addition, it may be important to deal with a large number of community and employment projects other than tourism and to build up a wide range of economic growths, guided by the interests of the people. In this regard, tourism is to be one, not the most supportive. At last to think about it. In front of me, I may be, and I may say, almost certainly, a new challenge. There are trade ships in the North Sea. For this reason, you need to discuss and prepare your reactions and deal with difficult and expensive changes at the same time. Probably these developments could first affect the next government policy, not the one we're discussing right now, but perhaps the next one, but the one we're supposed to be dealing with, and let this issue be transmitted exactly by discussion and policy development. I have now used these few minutes to remind me of the challenge of working with tourism as an influence on government policy and, in itself, a five - year financial program. It's a reform policy we're here on with a social accent, but it's not a starving policy or a revolutionary policy. That's where I'm done with what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u212	A respectable president. It was a very interesting speech, she described a little argument as to how we could gain sustainability in tourism. This leads to the argument that is missing in financial policy. So it was very interesting to hear that talk. It may be an indication of government policy in this sector. We may, then, be able to rely on it and use it to see how things are going. In financial policy, however, travel services are not much spoken of. Of course, two things are mentioned, including in the majority opinion, pointing out that tourism has been a major business balance in recent years. We need to watch out for the poles that can become and look like them, as Iceland's Business Council warned that the predicted balance is very unlikely compared to the state of the year. I wanted to find out more about what happened. A senator on the evidence not to make travel services one large pillar. What is the policy of working against it? Without pushing down the pillar, what pillar are we building up against? Maybe that's not quite fair, but I also wanted to continue the discussion on the subject. At baseline, the translucency includes providing clear, measurable, medium-term goals for evolution so that regular comparisons of targets and results can be made with clear scales. This is followed by a talk given. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son, who said that the baseline values were blurred, which is not because of baseline transparency. I wanted to point out that discussion and perhaps continue it for a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u213	Mr. President. Now I have to admit, I followed. A senator not quite left, but it's not the first time. I just want to put out a few words about how we're going to get sustainable and that this isn't gonna be too much of a industry. That was the point of my mind. I was warning that we would make this particular industry grow over the limit of the economy and the community and nature. If we are to control the fact that this is not happening, we certainly need to set goals, and we need to set out an analysis of the tools and tools we have to do so. I mentioned one example, i.e. that, of course, we cannot walk around parks so that flight services will be completely unlimited, so we once fished the resource and fished here as if there were no tomorrow. How do the transparencys or other basics of financial policy relate to what I was saying? I can't quickly answer that question. I hope so. A senator will come up here now and ask me clear questions that I can answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u214	A respectable president. I'll try; I sometimes have a little problem presenting my case clearly in a short period of time. But the problem. A senator describes an egg in one basket, a problem that we have also had in the electricity industry, with force, etc. Hv. A senator refers to a specific control of the flying resource as such, and there is one standard for control. Are we achieving such goals by controlling air traffic and air transport in order to control our tourism? Is that normal? There is one thing you can use to explain a transparency presentation. It also meets the requirements for sustainability if it is stated that we are going to aim for a specific flight plan. These are measurable targets and meet sustainable objectives for tourism. That was what I was really praising. A senator in his transfer address, that he gave a sounder policy and a standard that exactly is missing in financialism itself. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Excuse me.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u215	Mr. President. All the eggs in one basket - we agree that they can't. It has to do with the occupies talk over the head; one part of resistance is social. It is quite clear, at least in my opinion and probably most of the Icelanders, that we are not interested in being some kind of community in which you are a bit of a Šmonic drivet, so you might dump a foreign country, you're going to have almost one business that's going to have everybody else. But if the goal is to control the growth of certain sectors, there are many ways. I mentioned the flying issues as the only possible way. True, we need to identify and identify other ways. They can be market-based, in-depth presentations, related to targets we set for stress in Iceland's nature, etc. I can't see how this is going to appear in the State Policy itself, these things. These are stragglers that entered a government budget and then into budgets.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u216	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Trausti Guðmundsson for this introductory act. In this discussion, I have often felt that we are discussing the form, not the material. I am so happy that this discussion will begin here. My opinion is that this is a fundamental issue in the nation's economy, in financial policy, and in the future, when we look ahead, how we will deal with these issues. Whether this is due to sustainability in tourism from environmental, economic, or social impact - I think, in fact, the community will become what becomes a possible problem first, and I think that they are developing in certain areas and in certain communities. Our goal in these matters is key. Surely, the factor that will matter to us is not that of the economy. Last year, 42% of the nation's currency income came from this sector, while 70% of the service income is tourism. We've come to that place. I was going to ask you what. Senator: This is now the world's largest industry. I suppose average growth is 4% worldwide, if we go back to 1959. For us Icelanders, this average growth is 81⁄2-10% since 1950. How can you tell? A senator realizes that this process can be directed regarding the number of tourists coming to the country? How can humans really cope with that factor?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u217	Mr. President. First of all, why not? The senator to show up first: I don't think any of these three aspects of sustainability can come first. It's actually a synthetic ring, if we can put it that way. Social sustainability in Iceland is a balance between nature and nature protection. We live by nature, and we can't do it properly different than finding a balance between us, and it walks right into the blood vessels of society. Regarding the means of managing tourism or the arrival of tourists, this is just what these reports and these analyses are supposed to tell us something about. I'm sure there are five or ten ways to do that, and they all work together. I mentioned this with air service because it's so obvious we won't be the Dubai of the North in our own eyes, not in my opinion. Other ways to do this are based on assessment of the natural limitations in Iceland. Of course, we make it clear that Iceland is desirable in many areas, including tourism. It is based on the fact that there is a certain image here that differs from Majorca or something like that. This brings us to the conclusion that we are making narration or something like that. Then it is not controlled by what we lead in fishing, nor by the fact that harassment or pressures are simply bound to specific rules and statistics and so on. There is nothing wrong or ugly about the world that we try to have self-sustained tourism here for the joy and benefit of all.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u218	Mr. President. Not to be misunderstood, I was referring to the social effects that already there are considerable challenges to certain communities because of the number of tourists and such factors. With regard to the other point, regarding Dubai of the north, we may be able to say that this time point has already come. If we're looking at a flight in Iceland, it's about 14% of the domestic product, so it's scheduled today. It was 6.6% in 2010, according to a report then taken, but it was appreciated by men at 14% today. There is no such community in the Western world, with such ratios in national production, and even in many places. I think these time points have come and people need to know. Thank you. A senator is eager to bring this into the financial discussion. I hope we take this further and have good conversations about these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u219	Mr. President. You're supposed to be careful when you talk, because, of course, you're going to put a little different understanding into this with Dubai of the North. I've seen plans from Istavia about 20 million passengers, i.e. Twofolds from what is now, not so long, and 10 million tourists from this country. When I looked at it, I was thinking of Dubai of the North, i.e. the number of people whose size and social tolerance are multiple times in the country. But let's leave it in the middle. I'm sure you're right. Senator, we're close. But we're looking for longer periods of time and other circumstances that I think would be much harder to deal with than what is now. So I asked in my short talk: Is there 3 to 4 million limits we're looking for, or are they higher? I don't know myself, but I have a feeling that 10 million is definitely over there.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u220	Mr. President. It is not surprising that the affairs of tourism are given special attention in the financial and economic discussion that you know the worst examples of these things, let me tell you. That is why it is of utmost importance that each of us show up as marked devices as we do from the beginning. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson I especially thank you for. He makes it a subject of the terms that must be fundamental to our tourism as a profession. Among them is tolerance, sustainability, and so forth. The figures as number one. In a few years, a senator has mentioned, that the number of tourists in this country would be between 3◯4 million, based on relatively modest criteria, relative to what has occurred here. Now, as far as most people believe, what I'm told is that when this kind of job experience has become a kind of equilibrium, the increase may be around 7% a year. So it is only to see that there will be a very significant increase in tourists in the years to come. [[The president calls.]] I want to ask you why. A senator whether he really thinks that we are from a viewpoint of tolerability and sustainability ready to receive this vast number.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u221	Mr. President. As of this point, these numbers are, of course, I don't want to call them guesswork, but I'm talking about 31⁄24 million for an average of 10% a year. I have nothing to do with this other than this combination, and then I try it on to the number of people now, over 2 million, and what it all means to our community and how we can handle it. I'm not sure that this is necessarily some edge of the limit, 33/4 million, it may well be that they are considerably higher, but it is quite clear that we must always appreciate where we want to go against the other things that we're going to do so, as I mentioned in my speech, whether it's innovation, fishing, food production, energy production, whatever this community wants to do and need to be there to be a multi-cultural community, young people wanting to be here, education levels high, etc. Once again: The reports being completed and the analysis is, of course, the basis for the intelligent we need in order to make decisions. I make it very clear that the limit of endurance and other factors are constantly revised, and access controls are constantly being developed so that this is not something that we can always deliver. This is a industry and project that we have to deal with from year to year, open and benefits if we want to put it that way, and by which I would say something more scientific approach.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u222	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. It is once so that we are in our place in economic development in Iceland that major issues, such as the development of government funds, can be discussed in the same way that there are detailed and clear predictions about exactly what is likely to develop in the tourism industry. Of course, most tourists are affected. The question that I allowed myself to cast forward, I believe it is very valid. Are we really prepared to accept the number of people that will likely be counted in the years to come from a viewpoint of tolerance and sustainability? In this industry it seems that global policies and research are needed, just as the main work programme we've been living with, as the agriculture and the fishing industry say has been supported by policy development and extensive research in the areas where they work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u223	Mr. President. First, I want to thank them. Councilmen who've come up here face to face. It was quite unexpected. I didn't expect much of a reaction in itself to this speaker. The question, though, is, Are we prepared to receive 33/4 million, so we stick to some number? I would say no, not without any significant changes in our work practices and probably put extra money into this category and support the labor force that would have to be moved in and many more things that we already know, but have not really discussed well enough, so that you can see that twice in the current tourist population is going up, whether it's internal or labor or money. So I'm not sure we're prepared for this number.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u224	A respectable president. We'll discuss the financial policy of the Independence Party, the Left Green and Front Class. The five - year financial policy of the government is a few new ones here at the General Assembly, and it is defined as we know from a recent government law on public finance. Their goal is to promote economic well - being and responsible government of public finance. Thus, it is aimed to ensure that, on the long and short term, the overall policy of public finance, that careful preparation is implemented on the programmes and legislation in the public economy, that we are effective and practical for public management and activities, and that public accounts are, of course, in accordance with established accounting regulations and effective monitoring of the management and administration of public funds and rights. I think we're here, and actually the whole community will agree with these goals and therefore agree on the importance of the law on public finances. I hope so much that no one in this room would want to go back to old times, where the government's financial affairs were covered only for the next year, and that would be about 15 minutes at the annual convention. There is also evidence that in financial policy, an important declaration of policy is being made to each government, for its policy shapes the frameworks within which all other policies and plans of the government need to fall. It is only natural, though, that a body of Congress is waiting here in excess of the government's financial plans, which, of course, contains further implementations on the current course. It is clear, then, that we will have even more opportunities to discuss the government's policies on finance right after Easter. The aim of financial policy is in the law on public finances divided into several aspects, one on the other is the policy on the scope, development and development of property and debt and the long - term commitment of public bodies. It is very important that governments and societies are being promoted. This should be no less than 5 years old. The target should be expressed as a proportion of GDP. However, there is another feature of the work on how to meet your baseline values. To review, baseline levels are self-sustaining, carefulness, stability, fixation and transparency. I think it's important to have them too because I'm not sure that all the common people are trusting to read from material goals. However, if we retort those goals slightly, they are gathered to the extent of the total government balance during 2018/22022, there must be a minimum of 1.4% of GDP in 2018, 1.2% 2019, 1.1 2020, and 1% of GDP in 2018. The official total debt will be 30% of gross domestic product by the end of 2020 and will not exceed 25% of gross domestic product by the end of 2022. Total government growth in 2018 will be about 0.6% of GDP and the development of public activity throughout the period will contribute to economic stability. These factors take on the purpose of the law on the scope, development, and development of property, which, of course, is of great importance. In reality, evidence is also being provided for sustainability, caution, stability, stability, and transparency. In particular, it explains what these terms mean, which I think are in many ways more human language than our other objective in terms of a proportion of GDP. The reason I make this my special discussion is that certain senators have proposed a paradox on the grounds that this aspect is not completed. Then I'd like to review what is said in the opinion of a financial body, by permission of a president: The need for a baseline-targeted policy and a better practice in the whole process, as was 6 g. It's official financial law. Hence, it is happy that governments are striving to explain and interpret their baseline values and thus contribute to a more objective discussion of them. The financial adviser sees that this work will continue, and thus it will be further established as to what the basics require of the government's reports on financial and financial policies. I understand this so that a financial body will view this law as being fulfilled because there is talk of rejoicing. At the same time, however, the Council considers it possible to work even more with this factor. I wish that it should be done, for I count the baseline values of all the good and, in fact, the necessary value for our future policy threshold in terms of money. At this point, I would like to direct my discussion to the position and importance of the local community in the development of public funds. For the first time now, the situation of the rural community is taken into such important financial policies and, by means of the total size of public funds, that is largely part of government finance. There is no need to comment on the scope of the role of rural society, and in recent years there has been a tremendous increase. Of course, it matters in this context. A great improvement has been made in the last eight years, that's good. The financial rules of the rural government law have proved to be well discussed, on the other hand, on the subject of a so - called debt, and on a rule of equality, or survival, and the debt. Whether these rules are sufficient or correct, when you consider economic policies and the goals presented there, worry or perhaps justly suggest that I am concerned. A very important area is the Syndicating Committee on Public Economics. I understand that we are now working on the financial programmes of our rural society according to a economic report standard, and it will definitely matter and will improve this information level even more. But I still think that it is inevitable to consider over the next few years whether the laws and regulations on the financial affairs of rural society need to make some changes so as to be more dependent on the government laws. I see that financial advice points to that aspect. I'd like to agree with them. We are here with a financial policy that handles the payment of debt and infrastructure. I think both are very important. Here in the discussion of financialism, I have heard representatives of the political parties deal only with this. So far, I have heard more reports about the need to give even more attention, although now that we discuss financial policy, many people might want to be more involved. I must admit that I sometimes find it a little difficult to figure out which step people want to take in this regard. I think with this current policy, it is taking an important step, following the road between, by responsible financial management and subsidies, which are relevant at this time in the economy, but even more so, by building up the wood. In effect, we are in the maintenance of public investments. I welcome the discussion that has taken place here on finance policy, and I think we must be on our way. I would also like to take advantage of this opportunity and give special commendation to a group of conventions for promoting new financial policies. I suppose, however, that it is very similar, if not the same, and prior financial policy, I have not actually had the opportunity to read it through, but it is certainly a very serious matter to present what the pack wants. In fact, I would do the same in speech. paritaprevir Mr. Pawel Bartoszeks said that he had developed some kind of government government with the Presidency of the Continent and the secretary of finance of the United Nations. I have to admit that I find it hard to figure out how it would get together compared to how it's been spoken in this room, because I've heard the House members go a lot around so-called right starving policy and how terrible these 2% are. In fact, I've heard members of the Council Buildings talking about these 2% being just terrible, but that's from a very different source. Still, it is a pleasure to discuss this important matter. I think that, given what's going on here, we must be doing a nice middle line that most people would accept.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u225	A respectable president. You're right next door. A senator may not agree completely with us as members of the Parliament, but I don't think there's anything so far off from us when it comes to the survival of itself. It may be a question of how to aim, whether it has income or not to spend the same amount of money. Of course, there are a number of things that can be summed up, such as why. A senator is supposed to know a reality in a government that's a pretty diverse combination for a while, so I'll just say it. Then I'd like to ask. A senator: It is true that it refers to the financial policy that lay ahead during the last term, which is not very different from what we have now provided with one exception. But the difference between the course that was then adopted by both me and the reason. A senator, and what is now presented, is three kinds. First, the recovery of the state funds is now low, and debt is slow down. Does she think it's a good idea to do so in this way? Second, the total tax pay paid by the official was paid that I remind 41.5% of that policy, it's passed. Does she like it gone? Third, it was stated in the policy that all exchange expenses, irregular government spending, should be paid down debt. Does she like the fact that financial policy has gone out?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u226	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the questions and an answer to me. It is true that we were in the government not long ago, supporting them with the same financial agenda. It is only natural, of course, that when other categories arrive at the government table, various views need to be viewed. Hv. A senator asks me if I think it's right to increase my expenses, I think he used that word, and paid off less of the debt. I think that there may also be a way to maintain an investment and to reduce the need for investment later, so the evidence that we are in a position of debt to the infrastructure may well be given. I mention to form the road system, where vast sums of money are damaged. As a result, it is wise to put into practice that investment, although it requires that we pay a little less of our debt, that is some way of paying off debt with maintenance of investments. I can totally agree with what. A senator of the importance of spending discipline and the constant attention to paying off debt, but I also say that there are other viewpoints in this relationship. I think with this financial policy, we are taking steps to get these views together. I think it's a good thing. I think that's why there is so much support for the government, as it turns out.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u227	A respectable president. Yes, there is evidence that infrastructure is an investment or a way to maintain an investment. I don't think it's a argument, however, that many of the critics who criticize this, say the business or company of industry, are buying, that's a argument I've often heard from the very members of the left movement, that's less likely I hear them from the Independence Party or maybe stakeholders that would match the right side of the political spectrum. I'd like to ask you something. A senator on the rule of the financial policy of the former government that all irregular and monopolitan funds should be spent on subsidies. Now the rule is removed from the text of the proposal, even though these views are not easily addressed in the report. I'd like to know what her ideas are about this. What if we were to sell some government company, a bank, or a government company, what should be used to pay off debt? Is it 100% as if I had suggested, or is it 0% and putting everything in it building up and thus maintaining investments like a dog. A senator has said that?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u228	A respectable president. When it comes to the discussion of irregular income and how to defend irregular incomes, I think the same view is really appropriate, that is certainly very good, and there is a measure of sustainability in paying off debts, but the same argument applies also to maintaining investments. Although the sentence or the rule that all irregular incomes should be spent in subsidies, I still believe that much of that money should be spent to pay off debt. The discussion of a national fund and a specific way to build up wood through it, whether it comes to a National Hospital, a university hospital or a structure of the transport system or otherwise, I'm very into it. I wouldn't agree with a suggestion. The senator that all the money should be complete, completely spent, solely on subsidies, but rather on going there somewhere between the two. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u229	A respectable president. Hv. A senator said that explaining and interpreting the baselines were necessary, as a financial body did and commended. That, however, is the first part. The financial policy should, on the one hand, be targeted on the extent, extent of growth and development of possessions, debt and long-term commitments; however, it is a report on how baseline values will be followed for all the policies established in the previous years. In this process, the baseline values need to be explained only. That's what you do, but it doesn't explain how the policy meets at baseline. They just say she does. For example, the establishment of a national fund is said to be a sustainable goal, not an explanation for why. It is said that debt subsidies are also self-sustaining but not told why. Indeed, it is an example of what the Ministry says, that a certain debt of state funds makes possible access to markets, i.e. that having certain foreign debts has access to markets. On the other hand, we get reviews that tell us to pay off all our foreign debts. This would close the markets and would not be an example of sustainability in this regard. The definition of baseline is there, the interpretation is there, i.e. The governments are providing, but there is no evidence to support why policy meets sustainability. It's not enough to just say: The debt is self-sustained, that's to say why. It must be said that if we go down to the level of debt that would close markets or limit access, it is no longer sustainable. I hope it's made sense now.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u230	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer and especially for coming into the discussion only that I couldn't quite answer. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek earlier. There may be good reasons why there are debts, i.e. that not everyone uses to pay off debt, for that is also a very important point. I don't know if I completely understood the question. A senator, who has discussed so much here that he feels that he lacks in his report an explanation of how we fill these baseline levels of policy. To some extent, I understand that idea, and I think we can do it even better. Then I come into only what I was tore up in my talk earlier, we are here with a relatively recent law and a recent process. I think there are so much improvement from the place we were in a few years ago when we discussed only the budget here. At that time, we had no discussion, as is the case today regarding the government's finances, much less two or three years in advance. I think we have good laws in our hands. I think we have a very good practice. I think we are fulfilling what it says, but I'm not saying that we can do any better. I think there's good reason to say something that might even further develop the discussion of how we would argue that we are fulfilling these baselines, although I have to admit that somehow I feel that I'm saying something to myself that when you pay off your debt and keep your investments, you're maintaining some kind of sustainability, and it's a cautionary step to pay off debts rather than collect debts.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u231	A respectable president. Like what? A senator said that paying off debts is not self - sustainable. It was a bioavailability. We have to explain that it is entirely sustainable to pay a certain amount of debt to end, for example. not markets. The reason why I say exactly that this point is not fulfilled under official financial law, I'm very comfortable with the box there, is that in financial policy, by permission of the president: The General confirms that this economic policy is consistent with the baselines and conditions set at 2 mg. Section 6. and 7th pars. European Environment Agency (UNEP) has been appointed by the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of New York, Inc. I'm saying it's not true, and it would be dishonest for the council to stamp it out and say, "Yes, I'm sure it will match those baselines. She won't. The report is missing and the explanation for how economicism meets the baseline value. Then I can't see that the General should sign that the Council only confirmed it -- even if it isn't.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u232	A respectable president. I think we just disagree about whether this law is fulfilled or not. In fact, I can't see more clearly in the discussion that I was able to listen to at the Hall on this subject than many would agree that the report could be better, you could be more thorough about giving those arguments. But I haven't heard very many people in this room say that it's just not done at all unless it's possible. So I think most people agree that these evidences are presented, but the question is, Can I go further on that subject? Because I know why. A senator is interested in the form that I would also like to highlight. notes the review of the Economic and Business Committee, which includes certain viewpoints, including financial advisers, talking about some sort of space, not one number, as well as hints that the projections need to be developed. All of these are examples of I think we're going the right way, but we can do better than that. That doesn't mean we don't fill out the conditions and we don't do well today, which I think we are.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u233	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For her extensive speech, Bryndís's daughter's Haraldsdóttir. I'm going to say that I think her viewpoint on these matters is very interesting, especially since she has the special knowledge and experience of knowing things not only from the general viewpoint but also from the local government. So it is that the great laws we perform below, the laws on public finances, are contained in Article 11. There are very detailed regulations on the role of the community in government finance and on the communication and consultation of the state and rural society. So, Mr. President, the European Union of Icelandic rural society has a very powerful economic knowledge at this time, and it becomes tangible in the headlines that make up a financial committee from the European Union that they are extremely careful and informative and also useful. I'll let me throw it out to the point. In a few words, a senator may describe how she feels that this cooperation between a state and a community in this important area of finance is actually successful and has been successful in view of the standards laid down by the government laws on finance.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u234	A respectable president. Thank you. In this context, a member of the council resists and thank him especially for calling attention to the importance of the rural society. As I mentioned in my speech, I think it is very important that we discuss it here. It is as if in a matter of question. The senator's decision is to deal with the local communities and to agree with them in the law. But as I pointed out in my speech, there is nothing in the local administration Act that deals with these same factors. In fact, I think it was a big step when financial laws were introduced into the local government law, now I don't remember whether it was 2008 or 2011, either is the other number sitting in my head. I think it was a very important step. It is the rule of debt, that debt should not exceed 150% and, on the other hand, this balance rule, for a period of three years. That rule is a cautionary rule, and it was extremely important to put in one's own time. I believe most of our societies have now reached this limit, although with some exception. Now I think we may need to take the next step. That is why I was pointing out in my speech that we need to consider whether there is any basis for changing the law on rural society, then the financial sector, to make them speak better with the government laws on public finances. Now that we are in this very place in the economy, we may now be seeing the profit of the economy, the extracurricular response has increased tremendously, and the majority of rural society has yielded good results. If so, we will also consider that it may be a source of temptation, such as. in progress right now, when it comes to elections, it can certainly affect these factors that we are discussing here. I may come to that in a later answer, because I'm running out of time, how we've been working on the opportunities for consultation, but I think we need to look at this as the next step, that may be a reason to change the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u235	Mr. President. Thank you. For this answer, of course, it was as expected to be very meaningful and important in this discussion. There's another thing I'm interested in filming at the moment. A senator because of trouble. A senator mentioned a national treasure in his speech. It is this way in financial policy that at least two locations mentioned the treasure of a nation. I made this point of the subject in my talk with this discussion under some critical premise I must allow myself to say, because I consider this discussion of a national fund rather than an irreverent, and I realize not to make up of the information that has been presented to me in the light of the boundary between the state's funds and the national funds. Government funds are directed by a secretary of finance who is represented by the Generals and the affairs of state funds have very broad rules. [[The president calls.]] Of this national treasure, we know the next little thing. Maybe I just wanted to let me ask you what. Perhaps a senator might share some of my concerns with the fact that such vague ideas are torn in such an important document as this is a political arrangement for financial policy. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u236	A respectable president. I want to thank you again for the answer, and then I'll come to the question of last year's interview with the OCC, and my vision as a member of the county government is that it went very well. Now I'm going to let me talk to you about how we've been talking about the time when the government would set up similar rules and that's in the financial order. But what is good is the territory of our discussion. The work together has been successful, but I reiterate that I think it needs to be developed even more, and it might be the means of changing the local government. For the treasure of the peoples, I don't have to worry about them. The senator's view that the ideas are completely unformed and inaccessible and therefore do not belong in such an important system of financial policy. I think because of how important they are, they belong at home in the financial policy panel. But I can totally agree with that, of course, this idea needs to be discussed much better. The idea has not been framed. But I think it's very important that it be handled in as important as financial policy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u237	Mr. President. Before I have my case, I want to say that I would have chosen to the highest. The financial and economic minister would be present for the discussion where I have now asked him at the end. But that may be the case. paritaprevir and the chairman of Willum Þór Þórsson's budget can answer them. But surely it would be desirable for a financial minister to be here. The person listed here is written for the Committee to Call 2. A smaller section of the budget board. paritaprevir And the Björn of Leví the son of Gunnarsson, and Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Izz remnant. I'm not going to repeat what we're doing in our committee party. I'm just going to review a few things I'd like to add. The members of the greater section discuss the need to engage in building and maintenance such as transport. Under it the mind should be taken whole. We're about to sail into a down cycle, and that downturn is underestimated. Just like they underestimated the swing. It's time to take advantage of the relaxation to enter the infrastructure, and I take my mind to that. However, timing is a key factor in this. There is a considerable cumulative need for road matters, and other infrastructures have been ignored, as we know. Indeed, paying off debt is a responsible position in the government. The person standing here is a spokesman for confidentiality in terms of government and financial matters in general. Adopting possessions by not holding onto wood is unwise, just as spending nothing in maintenance of your own house, which makes it less valuable and even useful. In view of the greater part, it also says that there is a systematic need to prioritize projects and to make practical use of costs and costs for this purpose. Thus, more than that, more parts are especially directed to the government to establish more systematic priorities than has been so far. I'll agree with that. But I would also like to point out that more of the Committee has not shown in this that he wants to establish projects in the manner mentioned here. In particular, some of the changes have been made in terms of some of the other budgets and road increases. It put about 0.5 billion on transport projects that were not at the top of Vega's list. The priority order of the deposit material must go to where the need is most. They need to be cleared up and open. A less recent report considers the limitations of the financial policy: Can't draw up the possible stage shots of the arctic gangs in the kroner's gangs. It is very important that there are stage photos in both directions. This discussion has been discussed. In its review, the financial organisation considers the smooth landing of the economy after a long economic growth to be the most unlikely conclusion. At the same time, financial advisers criticize the expected smoothing of the economy. It's mainly the tourist current that's made this up a little longer. If the number of tourists continues to increase, the decline will be delayed. That, however, will seem unlikely. The usual route is that the dollar falls a lot. According to one reference work, there is an increase in levels of up to 10◯30% in the financial company, and a loss of financial resources will follow. It should be kept in mind regarding mental factors that will also be effective, such as future dress interviewes. All I want to do is make a fool's conversation a topic. I don't think they've been given enough attention in financial policy and the discussion about it here. Money policy assumes stability. However, there is evidence that instability is imminent because of the wastes that have taken place in the labor movement in recent times. There is a different position within the movement. New priorities and policy messages have been made clear. They are not at all dependent on the demands for a major system change, such as the financial market. This week's conversations with the presidents of two large unions made it clear that the government's conversation with the labor movement on unemployment rights and maternity vacations was not at the top of the list of requirements for the average worker. The demand for less interest is expressed in terms of raise rates, not percentages. Men have been willing to sacrifice themselves for the interest of the pension fund. But it wouldn't be any more. It's a big deal for working people today. New officers are part of the labor movement, and new generations are taking over. I'm aware that measures are already being drawn up. You are not aware of what could happen in these matters. Today's minimum shoulders are 257,000 bucks. per month. That's a shameful amount of money. Twenty-five percent of all employees have under 400,000. per month. The situation is transformed within the labor movement, and it is more radical than people in general realize. For example, this is clearly seen in what has happened in VR and Ephlinga. These two enterprises have a greater share in ASI. It is evident, therefore, that this will lead in the fall of ASI. The government cannot overlook these dramatic changes that we have seen within the labor movement. It involves what we've talked about here, i.e. baseline. Unforeseen consequences and effects on the development of public funds. It is connected and would have been very important to look to that direction. The word has changed radically in the labor movement that we have not seen for decades. It must be taken into account in financial policy. It must be determined and the effects it will have. All I want to do is back to the crown gangs. In March 2008, in just a few days, the dollar gave up a lot of money. But the tourism business also helped us to recover from a collapse, as everyone knows. The crown's strength leads to that. But the scholarship affects the working pattern in the country and creates, for example, the environment. difficulty with export branches. High success, on the other hand, strengthens the power of riches. Governments cannot ignore the economic impacts and growth activities involved. The living room does not predict a steady gang. We're small economy and mood swings have an effect. We must prepare for mood swings, but we can understand why not predict all things, such as natural disasters. As mentioned here, more risk analysis needs to be done in the government financial policy. If economic growth becomes less effective, what effect will it have? A smaller section of the legal committee emphasizes this in its committee list. Regarding forecasts in the future, it is not long since the Hausp Service failed to predict it. A five - year - old schedule, therefore, can also be wondered if it is not too long. It's not common for them to be so long. It should be agreed with the financial organisations that financial policy must be a tool where we can figure out what might happen in the economy. However, more than one part's financial policy does not reveal how the main risk factors for the government are to be considered. The policy must follow aberrant predictions. I think most of the people have emphasized it here. Disturbances where you deal with the problems and uncertainty issues I mentioned earlier. It is at the end to mention the review of the Federal Bank. The bank is concerned about the lack of financial resources and that it relaxes; offered increased expenses and tax reductions during our current year trip are economicly surmounted by the Federal Bank. I think it's appropriate for me to ask the chairman of the budget committee and what. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, whether he believes in proclaiming the taxation of the Independence Party, which came in. Until the new post of their party council, be reasonable in the way we are living today. It would also be interesting to know if these announced tax reductions within the government are done with the approval of the forwarding Party and the left greens.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u238	A respectable president. I'd like to briefly discuss the tax issues. First, let me refer to the Treaty, which requires the government to lower the income tax to the lower level in order to support labour market stability. The report shows that during recent years there have been significant increases in the rate of the kroner gangs, with considerable growth and pressure to the competitiveness of the exports. But at the same time, there has been a measure of tension in the labour market, i.e. Further improvement is required. In such a situation and with the tax rate we have in the income tax, I think it would be a reasonable option to consider a reduction in income taxation to cover better costs without having to go through the pay contracts. This is now essential to reevaluate the interaction of two-stage income taxation systems with personal discounts on these large reform systems, the child reform system, and then the growth reform system, and the other systems in addition to revenue taxes through the assessment of special property savings; then above, the mortgage benefits are due to tens. You could continue and go on into the social security system and point out a pension. This has become an enormously complex interaction between many reform systems and the reasons for reviewing whether we can better achieve our goals. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u239	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance for this passage. As I mentioned earlier, I had a fine conversation with two labor officers, one of the largest labor workers. There were new emphasis, the radical changes we have heard about and seen. You obviously experienced them there. It may be that when it comes to creating instability, the claim will be that way. Surely I understand these ideas and what was said at the highest level. Minister on the matter of introductions. However, it was clear that the main focus of these materials in unions was just the rise in the figures, the pay team, and the interest and insurance factor. So I'm not sure that tax declines will be the result of what the secretary of finance tells the final outcome in this regard. But I want to take this opportunity and ask them the highest. Minister how he believes that the planned tax reductions he brings are consistent with the baseline security and stability of the laws on public finances and are the basis for which the government should support financial policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u240	A respectable president. Yes, I think the ideas we've been looking at are quite compatible with caution and stability, and there is much more reason to ask ourselves: " Is the cost of money growth in terms of stability and discretion? Consider, for example, 15 billion additional expenditures from the previous budget bill last year. If we meet last year a weakness in government business and a final approval of budgets for 2018 compared with a budget bill in 2017, this is a number of hundreds of billions of additional expenditures. We're spending these funds on social projects, but the speed at expenses is such that we can't go on in such a way indefinitely. It's crystal clear. It would be easier to focus on what we can do to improve the growth of the budget, in line with the long - term goal of caution and stability.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u241	Mr. President. I've been saying here before that I am the spokesman for councilmen and reasonable solutions for the government. Therefore, caution is very important because there are signs of uncertainty. I think I took it right after a national meeting of the Independence Party, mentioned several times in this hall today, the ideas of the lndependence have gone out to put about 150 billion into the infrastructure. Then the question is, Is it wise, in view of the fact that the decrease of taxes is not inconsistencies with what the late bank has said and suggested, and does it really feel that there is a return of economics? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u242	A respectable president. Thank you. Birgir For this discussion of the government's financial policy, the request of the Þórarinsson of Thornis for the introduction of this discussion, which applies for the year 2018/22022. Hv. One senator somehow put it to the point that we were going down, and I noticed correctly. I ask him this: Does the senator see any special sign of the weakness of the crown he has in front of him in that relationship so that she could yield about 10 to 30%, as I think he said in his speech? Another thing I wanted to ask him about the plans that are coming, i.e. A financial agenda and then a fall in transport strategy based on the basis of this policy. He says that projects need to be prioritised. We have found that, just this year, our priorities in road work are completely meaningless. It's a blank document called a transport plan. She's abductable, and I don't know what kind of plans are made if there's nothing to do with them. I'd like the senator's opinion of this. If they are not to be followed, why are we making these plans?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u243	Mr. President. Only with regard to the crown gangs. A review from the financial firms showed that this could be a stage, that the march would be very critical in a very short time. As I mentioned earlier, it happened in March 2008. At that time, the situation was that in just a few days, the dollar fell a lot. These experts are more informed of these matters than I am, but this was seen in a number of opinions than one. What evidence is there that this could happen now? Yes, I think we have to look only at the tourism services in that regard. It's been driving this fluke naturally and making it stronger. While travel services are certainly spoken of in terms of the greater part, additional information on these risk factors is needed. They are not the ones who were offered the basis for the forecast made. It's, for example. not only to this system-based risk, but to social risk is very important. The social limitations of this article are also a major risk factor. We must look to the language of the article in Iceland and the fact that the local people'endurance toward tourists is decreasing. We must look to the pressures of nature, which have developed to the limit of endurance as well as to the illegal activity in the article and are increasing. This was shown in a review of travel services. In contrast with international developments, the Ministry looks especially at the concept of growth. [[The president calls.]] It's fine as far as it goes, but it's an important factor. I have to come to the second question in a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u244	A respectable president. We noticed it earlier in response to the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance that he spoke of and was concerned that the rate of interest paid was too high in the state. That's why I'm asking for the senator's opinion. How do you think the government can approach the completion of an e.g. The road system I'm particularly worried about? As we all know, the roads of the country, both in the capital area, from that time forth and across the country, are falling apart. I ask the senator, "What can I do? " Does he have any ideas for the government on this big problem? How should the construction of the road system be financed? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u245	The president asks why. The senator to address other members of the council in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u246	Mr. President. The priorities in transport are of utmost importance. I have doubts that the greater part will set priorities in the way it should be done. It was evident in the Christmas financial work that when the extra funds arrived in this category, the priorities were not set. I mean, I'd rather be able to see how determined the members of Congress were in that their district would make certain roads fixed, etc. This is very important. In this regard e.g. Watching a traffic scale. Why don't we put 500 million in a period where 100 cars drive a day or 500 million in a period of 10,000 cars drive a day? This is what counts. In terms of how to do this, the natural thing to do is to enter a financial programme and then a transport plan. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u247	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir In this discussion, the Birgir of Þórarinsson would like to use this opportunity, as we have reached the second stage of this discussion, as well as thank you for your cooperation. A legal committee, though we do not feel the same way there. I was here with a large part of my history. The budget board. It's quite remarkable to be standing here because of that. A senator asked me a question in his speech. The habit is that anyone who comes to answer asks questions. I'm still going to try to answer a good question, though. A senator came in on taxes. It's certainly part of policy. Hv. A senator asked for a planned tax cut. It just so happens that it's part of the policy we're discussing here, and we're dealing with collective agreements. On page 10, we do well on income and tax policy. It says, by permission of the president: The target and timing of tax measures must be determined by various factors, such as the progress of labour agreements. Like what? Looking at economic developments is of great importance to a member of the body. I agree to reduce taxes to lower levels in order to meet those who earn less money. But I'll throw the question back to the question. Councilman: Shouldn't we try to improve the interests of less paid ones?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u248	Mr. President. I agree that there is a great need to improve the interests of the average worker in the country. This was made clear in my talks to the head of the labor movement this week, and it was very interesting to hear what they went through. However, it has also been observed that much of this has in mind the development of a large infrastructure that is certainly necessary. So the question is: Aren't we too tense if we're going to take a lot of injections in building wood and at the same time dropping taxes? Everything needs to be left in your hands. It needs to be done very carefully. Because if these things are not done gently, we lose them. No one's making money on that. We're going to lose money, inflation goes up, insurance and we're gonna raise our loans, and so on. It is very important to me that this is done with caution. That's why we have these baseline levels, to be a guide in these topics. I just want to encourage the more part to approach these important things, considering that we're not going to overtake us on the level of stability.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u249	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I agree with what. A senator says this will be a balance art. Like what? In his speech, a senator evidently reached the peak of the economy around the end of 2016 and enjoys a cooling economy. It was very good in all reviews, and it shows in the economy that we are not in contract, but in this way a cooling economy is less economic growth than has been lost, has subsided. With it, it's gonna be a balance. That is what we expect, and we called for it to come. The budget that in the implementation - because it is a policy process and a national financial programme follows this policy and there is a very urgent development ahead of the infrastructure - we respect the baseline conditions laid down in the government laws on public finances. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u250	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this. I hear we're on the same line as with the important caution in these matters and what lies ahead. It's good to hear it from him. Then we have the baseline values that I don't feel clearly in this direction. We'll see, for example. that by 2017 the economy was about 6%, and 2018 is down to 2.9%. We need a team that's going to do exactly what they're going to do. It has been observed that many believe that these predictions are too optimistic. In Norway, for example, over 100 people work to do so - called national interest models. Here was an institution that had it as its goal at the time, but it was laid down. There are such factors that would certainly be better handled in this regard. [[The president calls.]] But it is a pleasure to hear from the chairman of the committee that he is on the line doing this cautiously, which is certainly very important.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u251	A respectable president. I'm going to try to finish reviewing my committee opinion that I didn't get at the first hour and start with the reviews. Most reporters agreed that the economic forecast was too optimistic. The inspection was confirmed in an up - to - date national forecast published on February 23 of the past. After the economy was updated, the reporters who appeared to the committee felt that they were still being overly optimistic. The organization of finance companies has said that no economic agency had predicted economic contractions ahead of time. However, the carers generally agreed that the basis for financialism was unlikely and that a soft landing would be the most unlikely result. The report on financial policy has, for example, been published. It is said that economic growth in 2017 will be expected to be 4.9%, while in February's revised national budget it is expected that economic growth of 2017 would be 3.8%. According to economic forecasts, a 3.1% interest rate is expected in 2018, but an up-to-date estimate for 2.9% interest is expected. In addition to this, in 2017 an older economic forecast went from 6% to the 4.9% on which financial policy is based. In view of the greater part of the legal committee, the basis for the economic forecasts on which financial policy is based has not changed much. During one year, the estimate for economic growth has failed to be 6% by 2017, with an estimated real - life increase of 3.8%, to 2.9% by 2018. That's a big change. The evidence agrees with the opinions of a source of optimism. Iceland's business council makes a note of a few points in financial policy. The advice is to warn against forecasting about business balance. Based on the angle of the change of goods for the year, it will seem unlikely that the Hauspology will be predicting about 140 billion dollars. Business has come true. Also, the public's share of business is controlled at the last financial policy and makes the comment that more waste will be explained almost only by 25 to 40 billion dollars. The better supply of public enterprises without any evidence for the improved use of their enterprises, either in the narrative of the Parliament's Directive on financial policy, in the financial and economic information document, or in the opinion of a greater proportion of legal committees, if it is made according to the Management Board's tips. A greater proportion of the legal committee agree that there is no reason for building an increase in living on the better supply of public enterprises. Government reviews emphasize that the public financial law states that financial policy should deal with long-term commitments and preferably pension commitments. However, the undivided production of the long-term obligations of the State in relation to previous financial policies is not considered to be a complete law on public financial matters, according to the Government Accounting. Then the Constitution points out that economicism does not show the evolution of property. Rather, it is equal in part to debt. Although work has not yet been completed for founding economic accounts, the National Accounting Board considers that there are already information on a number of State Funds, such as holdings in public companies, which should be available to publish information in financial policy. Dr. Ólafur Margeirsson dealt specifically with Article 7. law on government finance and reasoned on why an article should be dismissed from the law. As a result of this legal process, there is a limit to the growth of financial assets in the national sector, that the increase does not fall below 2.5% of national production. Thus, the private sector has been limited to build economic soils in a domestic currency, unless the level of commerce becomes much higher during the same period. It was very interesting, and a fresh review was to read, with fancy monasteries, or perhaps accurate economic formulas. Dr. Ólafur Margeirsson emphasizes that this is a mathematical and mathematical fact. There is no other opinion available on this point. Only the locals. According to one reference work in the United States, the area of consultation on public finances has improved greatly over the past year. Regular meetings are arranged, and a good discussion is made. The review highlights the responsibility of the State to make ends meet in terms of financial policy. The scope of the State is simply so far more important than the community's activities that the responsibility for the recovery must rest primarily on the State Fund. The rural areas, however, are returning their resources, although Part A is not self-sustained in terms of not being able to pay off both debts and to perform the necessary projects that are predictable in the coming years. It is expected that municipal management results in 2018 will be positive by 7 billion dollars. This, in spite of an increase of about 9 billion dollars, or 31% in investments over street expenses, is to be obtained from selling property and building rights. In 2018 2021 the debt and commitment of part A are expected to decline as a percentage of revenues from 106% to 96%. So the rural population is returning its share to the survival of the public bodies as a whole, subject to the State. Only in general on financial policy itself and in terms of the greater part. It is interesting to find in the text, apart from what I've said before about the baselines and perhaps overture a little later. The fiscal policy suggests increases in infrastructure, increases in health systems, and increases in education. This is all an increase in expenses. It is suggested that a national park be created that will be financed by government contributions. They are not used for other projects, and this is used as a sustainable practice, which means that it will have some impact later on, probably not during this financial policy. It's a tax deduction form, i.e. decreased income versus these increased health and educational expenses. Demographics are said to cost more to the government. Yet, there is still talk of increased income. It is somewhat unclear where it will come from, since it is said that income should grow in the rhythms of GDP, but tax reductions are being said as well. It's a little vague. A bargain is mentioned as the expected tax decline is oil, oil, not the oil. It refers to the status of younger generations in a housing market that is expected to be at some additional cost. Like what? paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, chairman of the budget board, has to set this off, this expansion, this tax reduction, this increase in the cost of demographic changes and housing status, which will be very interesting to watch for. I don't see how. In answer to what. Harðardóttir The only possible solution for the economic forecasts on which financial policy would not go up would be a failure; instead, economic growth would need to be increased. That would be the only way to get those extra revenues. The billions of people you see there in reduction of survival compared to previous financial policy, compared to a tax reduction and so forth in the streets, you don't see many billion in all these projects to increase in the quality of health, education, and the like. In financial policy and in terms of the greater part, an investment in the entire population is expected to increase by 21% between 2018 and 2020. Official investments are expected to maintain the economy, with an average of 5.2% over the period. Yet, income and expenses are expected to grow at a rate in terms of GDP. It's interesting to see that if you're going to expand your infrastructure, but the government's investment just keeps the economy growing, I don't see that as an increase. Then it's just a constant state. The same proportion of GDP is being used to build up in a community that requires increased service, for it will simply be larger in formats than in others who require the ministry. It's the same ratio, but it's not an increase. So there are certain discrepancies in some places during financial policy, and the opinion of more things that I would have wanted to explain in my discussion. I've been looking for them a little bit. It's popular to point out that the economy will achieve smooth landing, but as the client said, no soft landing will come true. It just doesn't happen. And no one even knows how to land an economy smoothly because no one's ever done it before. If we were to try going to college and ask how to do so, they would expect to recommend it, as financial advises, to increase the maintenance level and to hope for the best. But they may not know, for it has never been done, never before. The expansion. Tourism is an interesting subject, as we have seen in the discussion. The main explanation, as stated in the opinion of the greater part, of the interest and balance we have experienced is the travel service. The share of the transport service in export income was about 42% last year. In comparison, a total of 33% of export income last year was used by the share of fishing and aluminium. Enough is passed, lots of eggs in the same basket. When the tourism service has reached 42% of the export income, all the swings, as expected, mean that we need to give it extra attention to what is going on in the tourism business. It's not too predictable. Both the economic and the environmental impact, respectively. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson came into his speech, a tremendous challenge during this period of financialism. That is where I merely mention the lack of innovation that I feel is lacking in financial policy, and it was found in the budget of 2018 that nothing was placed beyond that in innovation. - It's very convenient to be the highest. Ministers of innovation walk by exactly when I mention it. - One of the key elements of a sustainable economy is innovation, creating these new assets and technologies that replace these large and fluctuating risk factors in the economy. Finally, I want to repeat the important point that I feel is missing in financial policy. It's this report that I've been talking about at baseline. Yes, financial policy explains the value of baseline values a little bit more and goes further into what they mean for these governments. Other than that, when you mention some kind of policy like building a national fund, it's just said that it means to sustain yourself, it doesn't explain how. With a fall in debt, it's just said that there's a sustainable set, that I could be completely rational, no problem, but it's just not done. It was presented in a talk, and we say again. paritaprevir The irony of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir is that it is a set standard of government debt that allows access to markets and that if we start to reduce debt to that and limit access to market market market market market market markets, it will go against sustainability. They need to explain how a reduction in debt contributes to sustainability simply by saying that the availability of foreign loans or something like that will have been explained. It's not necessarily that complicated, it's just missing. This leads me to this phrase said in financial policy, by permission of a president: The General confirms that this economic policy is consistent with the baselines and conditions set at 2 mg. Section 6. and 7th pars. European Environment Agency (UNEP) has been appointed by the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of New York, Inc. They need support, which is one of the conditions under official financial law. I've tried to trace it, but it's not to be found. [[The president calls.]] As a result, I feel that the only solution is to bring the policy back to the government to support it, just as with the motion of the Minister of Justice to the order of a judge, she needed to back it up.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u252	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. We've been on the budget together for a while. The Senator speaks a lot about shapes. I also thought about it when I read about this committee opinion that more groups sign, but I would like to ask first of the question. A senator named Pirata and their deputies. In case of a moment. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear would be the minister of finance, what would the percentages have looked like in the policy presented here? Would the senator have relied on him to respond to the criticism he presents in the commission at the time of government? He's talking about the time frame going against the baseline safety issue. I'd like to ask him a little bit about getting into the political bitch, Pirat's economic policy, how would she have been fulfilled if they had been able to make this statement. I'd also like to ask you a few questions about earning money. Here it says that there should be action, that there should be increased strength in maintenance and building, but there are really no direct suggestions on how to do so. I'll ask him about it. In that case, there was a motion from the reason. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek, et cetera. ... inthesurrection. It is not a simple project, as we know, and a considerable amount of legitimate criticism, and we know that this work is being done. I'd like a vision of Pirata and their minister of finance that would probably have been.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u253	A respectable president. I'm going to start by hoping I won't be a minister of finance. I'm not interested in that. The percentages of percentages as I mentioned before were expected to be very similar regardless of the government. This is 0.1% to or from. There would be no major changes in the numbers, although it will contain several billion, two or three, per 0.1%. But that still says something. The percentages would not be too much different. Because of the indications, I would have totally helped to increase the maintenance level a little more and to have a little more survival. The Pirats and I also put out the big shadows for elections. There we had some ideas about earning money. They can be looked up. My head works, so since it's written in the computer, I keep the information in there without having it in my head. I refer to the shadowing laws, they're on the Internet. Is there any indication? Yes, absolutely. Out of a conscience and out of a boxlike shape like a dog. A senator referred to the form, I take my heart to it, I could only reason on the missing things, fill up in the balances, as it were. That's what's moving me. I can feel it very easily. If I was a financier, I hope I didn't let that happen at first. If it were the Pirat finance minister, I would be there to begin with and hope that I would not get such a formality against me, but would try to fix it if that happened.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u254	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. As we know, it is not easy to resolve. I've checked Porta's shadow code, did it before the election and again. It would be interesting to know if the senator thought that they could succeed and whether they had changed something in the light of the situation right now. As we climb the maintenance point, we must look forward to the future, we are starting a big project that I think is more expensive than if we were to delay it. That's why I think it's important for the Piratars to say that I know more politics and less excel when they speak in pontu. I feel like there's more to you about how you see the income, what projects and focus should be, and so on. Because economicism is based on looking to it, even though it is not the development but the frame. As I said earlier, I feel that this committee is missing some suggestions on how it should be different from what is stated here. It is merely criticism, and it depends largely on financial resources, but financial advice is only to some extent a suggestion on how to react. They are also overlooked as to the fact that some of us are simply hard to deal with. That's why I'm asking something about this. I feel as soon as they say we're going out against the Baseline in some way, it's important that we are convinced that if we had been in that position to do this document, we would have succeeded. It would be within the time frame we were meant to be, and I ask why. A senator: Does he and the Piratars believe that he could have solved that assignment? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u255	A respectable president. There's a lot of stuff here. Yes, we also suggested an increase in expenses. As a minister of finance points out, it is not only a measure of reimbursement but also a balanced balance in the rise of spending and in the use of extras. I believe we were relatively accurate in the political bitch with a contribution to the Obscurial Act. Of course, times change and evolution, there are reasons why we had those who are less successful today. There's nothing unnatural about that. In this regard, there is a key issue of access to information that the government, the Ministers, has for us an army to get information for themselves, but we do not. As a result, I am much more involved in quality control now than in trying to make suggestions because I don't have a position to witness whether these suggestions are practical. Our shadow money laws are based on the budget that developed with certain changes and ideas that had existed in the government business. We had a small background on how they could've shrugged, but that's all we could do. There would have been further meditation when action was to be carried out. This is a difference between what we have in Iceland and in Sweden, where the government's situation is equal in its budget and has the position of an entire office to help estimate shadowing and working with its own budget. [[The president calls.]] I don't want to say that these financial policies run against baselines, I'm saying it doesn't match them. I think there's a difference. That's the difference between trying to fulfill what I feel is lacking. That's my criticism.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u256	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir His speech was given to Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson. Hv. In his second speech, a senator had a story of minor opinion, discussed economic forecasts, and the criticisms that have been presented in economic forecasts. We'll agree to that in the greater part. Many comments showed this, but very upbuilding criticism, I appreciate it. He pointed to lack of restraint, not being sufficient for the maintenance phase. Everything's been very good. A senator summed it up well. As mentioned earlier, the previous year had an answer. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's beak. A senator of form and valid, and I'd like to ask him what. A senator in half. First, like the government law, we look at paragraphs 6 and 7. the law on government finance, the 6th points to baseline and the 7th to the budget, the whole policy programme, both the target and the national budget we're considering soon. Hv. A senator said that it was easy to reason on individual values, and I would like to ask if there is a stronger correlation between the simplicity of the policy and the baseline values so that in the implementation of a GDP plan, there is a far greater reason to provide more advanced logic to the values than in the policy, which is done there in general. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u257	A respectable president. I say, both better. This also needs to be done during financial policy. This certainly needs to be done in financial planning and financial matters. This covers all three. The law on government finance is specifically set aside to provide measurable financial standards so that we can observe whether financial policy will last and last. Only in this way can we determine whether things have gone wrong and need to be made changes in financial policy. [[Up front.]] No, not really. It is not necessarily normal to be better aware of the financial issues involved. It simply has to be defined also by baseline values and the way they live in financial policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u258	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I didn't expect anything else from what. A senator but who stood by what he has said. Certainly, financial counsel pointed out that this is desirable. I'm almost sure there'll be a huge improvement in the financial programme and as part of a policy process, it's just as likely we'll see it plainly, talking about, like. The sustainable concept referred to in general and in economic law. But then I'd like to ask a later answer to the sustainable concept, if we stick to it, because there was an interesting conversation between us. paritaprevir Ari Guðmundsson and Njáln Fräðinttir Njáll Traustason of self-sustaining when it comes to other direct economic factors, then in tourism, as shown in the conversation I know of. A senator listened to this expression and came into his speech. This is what the Industrial Association described about sustainableity in the absence of investing in infrastructure or internal products such as transport. Wants to play. A senator would say something about this, because government financial laws do not go so far as to extend this term to these factors?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u259	A respectable president. This was true of financial advisers. paritaprevir How did Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir express her appreciation for the increased definition and interpretation of baselines, which had just been criticized in previous financial policy? This is only natural. It is possible to enter there, based on the policies and conditions in which we are going to fit this section, perhaps not a direct economic segment, but the tourism, in our definition of sustainability. If governments have a measure of freedom to define their baseline values in a more precise way or more than expected by the government's law on public finances, they can be more limited to some extent tailored to the rationale for their policies. However, once that ring has arrived, both the definition, the direction, and the logic support, it is possible to criticize whether the interpretation or definition may be too wide or poorly measurable. But only if logical support closes the ring. We had this conversation earlier in my first talk about a financial body saying that it is desirable to have a baseline value there. I interpret it to be done, it shall be; for it saith in the law. I merely interpret it as a matter of interest to a financial body, a term that could be used very frequently in its review. When I enter the dictionary definition of it, it's only the law to determine what that word means. [[The president calls.]] It happens sometimes. [[The president calls.]] It's a little hard to read root lyrics sometimes, and you have to read from the lines.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u260	Mr. President. I see at the top. Secretary of finance is not in his seat. I will prefer to direct my criticism to a company minister, if he wishes to be here for some answer. But the main thing that matters is when we close this discussion on financial policy and I've missed it is that it's a big political discussion. The discussion on some tablets, numbers on paper, may be one of the most important discussions we have on government policy at any given time, on the part of the government in the economy. I like it here at the end of this discussion to review again and again why we were doing this. This, of course, should be one of the largest and most important factors in learning that we drew from the last collapse, of putting our arms around the economy, or rather of absolute lack of economy, and of the interest of government over the years. I'm particularly interested in it, and it's been that for years because our sceptre and technology companies, our export branches, depend on this economy and the State's interests. We often talk about three arms, that's government, money policy, and the job market. The government has little to say about the labour market, but it has everything to say about the money policy or money management we're working for. Again, we are, in effect, repeating the same mistake as before. The government's losing track of business. We are probably heading for one of the biggest deserts that has gone on in the past year. It seems to me that in this government, one of the Ministers runs across a different border to achieve an even greater amount of expenses. Yet they are good for it. Why is this so important? Yes, we live on export. One of our main lessons from last collapse was, and we wrote about the many learned reports, that we needed to promote our international sector, promote export companies, tech companies, our starters. We saw that during the first few years after the collapse, the sector responded very well. But in the international context, we are the great survivors of our neighboring nations when it comes to the impact of our global sector, the economics of our technology in the economy of our national product, with some 10◯12%, during the e.g. Sweden has at least double that. Why it matters. We have exports based primarily on resources. As we have discussed, including. in this discussion, these resources are all burned at the same level, they are limited. Although we have received significant housing for tourism, we know that this too is a limited resource. There are boundaries that we need to respect. Like fishing or energy, we cannot grow indefinitely in travel services. Therefore, it is still important to create the international sector, technology, the environment they need to grow and thrive. That was the main outcome of the McKinsey report back then: Iceland has to place its emphasis on technology and wands. We talk about the world on days when we want to promote the education system, promote the sceptres and technology companies. However, the conclusion of the McKinsey report, the conclusion of the consultation field, was that the first requirement for the international sector to grow here and prosper would be that it would get stability. That is why in order to create these sectors needed stability in order to grow and thrive. A steady corridor, stable prices, as stable an economic environment as possible, as low a interest level as possible. High-level party. The minister of finance has spoken a lot about this stability. He's done the right thing to criticize, e.g. Hard work market instability and the damage it can do to us. At the same time, however, the other two main factors of economic management are not taken, the money policy, with the highest category. For a long time, a minister of finance was in his national meeting policy to pick up international currency, but it wiped it out of its current policy. And on the other hand, the terms of the state's budget were not to amplify the economy, as it has always been, but it would be tried to join the Sentiment Bank, no matter what money policy was left, to create stability here. It is clear from a discussion of financial policy that this is a repeat of the economic error taken ten years ago, also 20 years ago, and 30 years ago. A view of the New World Translation shows that from the end of World War II, we have sailed through a series of bulletins every ten years. This environment is not the growth environment of technology and sceptre companies. We can spend all the time we want in a Senate hall to talk beautifully about the importance of improving our education system and increasing our investment in education, but if we create the people we are not going to educate, it is also good to remember that through the EEA Convention, we have access to a global labour market. These well - educated people simply look for other things. That's what we see in our work markets now. For the most part, we have been creating jobs for a relatively low level of education to the point of living up to. Without minimizing the importance of travel in this context, we must at some time determine how we are going to create the necessary and stable economic environment for technology and wands to grow. Because it's quite clear that we're running out of resources to search to lead the economy forward. It is not an interpolitian preparation of oil, except that it has not been found. It is clear that fishing is the same as before. Clearly, there is no political agreement on further activations at all. We have come to the very end of the resource use there. We remain with the need to build up in technology and sceptres. We see again and again that in recent years exactly nothing has happened. This company has rather been moving out of the country. That's what you hear, and it's very clear when you speak to representatives of the stake unions of these companies, such as the industrial organization. It is simply not to be heard from an environment leading up to three, four years. This company is hatching again. I think we need to keep that in mind when we discuss the financial policy and its role in the economy, that unfortunately, this device, financial policy, is not being used in an economic context. It is used to create a government budget, number one, two and three. This is the main purpose of the changes made in these financial policies from the first. I agree with the highest. Secretary of finance, then the highest. Prime Minister, the course of the first government, was particularly too conservative. Still, now is really relaxed because the main point of clearance is not the economic purpose of economic policy. The main purpose is to create this government the oxygen it needs, which is a budget, the space to increase expenses. And the scope we see is that there will be a new record in the interest of the state's budget in the reign of the Independence Party. I think the Independence Party might want to stop talking about economy. He doesn't take care of her. It's quite clear. Sadly, the expected lot of the next government, once again, will be to clean up after this financial fill, like a decade ago or so ago. Sadly, it seems, once again, that we will never succeed in finding happiness. We'll never be able to play good out of good school. We always get ahead of ourselves, we always lose control. It is not good management, however, to spend what is stored up is not a good way to control the expenses of a government fund. You see, when the money flows into the state fund, it challenges the conservativeness of which the Independence Party has so much of it. [[The president calls.]] It would be fine if the Independence Party could be more conservative in a budget management than he does here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u261	A respectable president. Hv. In his speech, a candidate introduced much interesting information. I'd like to come on some shows. Let's start by thinking about how things are going in the economy. How's it going to keep the inflation going? It's going great. How's it going to decrease the interest rate? It's been fine. Who are the real ones today if young people take mortgages? Well, they're nothing like that when I took my first mortgage and paid 8% fixed prices of interest. We've seen the lowest real-life interest on mortgages we've ever seen. How's the running of state funds on the right side of zero? It's been going well since 2013. How do we manage to get rid of debt? Well, we've paid up 600 billion dollars of debts since 2013. How is peace in the workforce achieved? Well, there's been a sustained tension, but government-relevant increases during the past 12 months are the lowest we've seen and have just extended collective agreements. That's what you could do. What is the basic balance of the Kingdom, an indication of how a person is running the Kingdom? Well, he's one of the greatest in Europe. I'm totally denying that there's a problem with Iceland's economy. As for the project we have, to increase the export income, it is certainly important to look to technology and wands, and that is why the government, like the last one, has emphasized research and evolution. We are ambitious in our efforts in this regard. Of course, it will be difficult for us to compete, e.g. We pay a programmer in Bulgaria who may receive 1,000 euros a month if we want to maintain the standard of living we do here, and we cannot offer that salary for highly educated people. With regard to the export income in a larger context, it is estimated that it has grown from some 600 billion if only we look at fishing roads, aluminium, and tourism in 2011 to just less than 900 billion in 2017. [[The president calls.]] That tourism has taken from less than 200 billion to 500 billion in exports is the driving force. A senator should be talking about.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u262	President. Yes, acquiring a wealth of money is going well, but it is not a matter of economic management. Fé flows out of all fronts, and that's what we've seen, not just in this scene, but in the last and last, that there's nothing that brings the state funds more benefit than when the work market only gets ahead, there's only too much pay, the private consumption is up and it's blessed now, from previous ups, a huge growth in new export work. I'm not going to belittle it. It is tremendously good to know how much we have received from the transport industry, which is a limited resource like our other resources. We are still in a position where about 90% of our export income comes from the resource sector. We are not advancing the international sector that we always talk about being so important for us to expand. It's always the same underlying problem, the economy is not there. We can expand research and development support, we can increase the level of education, but the work needs to be created in these articles, and it will be no different from the stability of these enterprises. In the past few years, they have not found that stability, despite all the good things we have here. You see, when the state grows, it's not a economy. It is simply the repeated history that the Icelandic economy is incredibly swinging; it is certainly growing very fast when it is growing, and the state funds are very good, but that is exactly what it means to be careful about the spending management so as not to fan the expansion at the same time that the Seldabanki tries to resist. It is true that there has been a decline in physical growth. It is true that we have made progress. It is primarily this gang strength which has held back inflation, since domestic inflation has been more than sufficient in recent years. Our main concern may be that we have a very high interest level because the Scrollman is trying to hold back the expansion here alone. [[The president calls.]] Once again, he does not have the support of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u263	A respectable president. I don't know exactly what to do. A senator believes that if it is not just a matter of gaining the merit of control, it is important to make a difference. When we run our national preparations so that we have good business coordination, I would say that we have some indication that economic issues were in order, that growths were going down as well as the real interest level. When we pay off the long-term debt of state funds, as we have done, and cancel our state-of-the-city pension bonds, I say, that's a good economy. When the nation's clean status becomes the best thing they've ever become, I say, we're doing something right in the interest of government. When the government's credit rates get up almost quarterly, we're doing something right in the interest of government, etc. When we make constant payments, we are achieving success in economic management. But then there's a reason. A senator says that the stability of exports is not sufficient, especially for those who have the world to the market. Indeed, their competitiveness has become a reality. But who's on the other side of that table? It is the Icelandic home that benefits from what is happening and that is closing in on the exports. The big question is, Where do we balance the growth of exports to the others? Almost all of the Icelandic crown's granting is because of the growth of tourism. It is not easy to predict where the new balance will be. We still see, despite the high funding of the crown, growth in tourism, increased tourist arrivals. I'm going to finish talking about the kingdom and whether it's growing. You see, the state grows nothing much, as measured by the scale of domestic product, as a proportion of it. The kingdom is becoming a much stronger, masterer, the national element is much more powerful to bear debts, commitments, and expenses. But the state is not expanding much in the economy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u264	Mr. President. Yes, the state has become very athletic. If we measure that level at the total cost or expenses on a person, it is likely to be huge. But once again, spending money when it flows in is not economical. This is precisely what economic management is about having the strength to put aside good - looking resources when needed to keep the interest level low, keeping good fortunes in check. Let us see that as we look at, for example. A recent survey of the employment community and professional activities is quite black and white if we are looking at domestic services or exports. The export companies have been complaining for a very long time. In fact, the tourism service, which has more than contributed to this great success, no longer tolerates it, complains, and points out that there is much and a great deal of change in the environment of the article's environment. That's dangerous. It is true that our homes are certainly benefiting from our spiritual progress, but we are also looking for stability in our homes. We know exactly what that means when it breaks down. Then the inflation, the insurance factor will enter the home mortgage, and we'll still stand in that position, as I've mentioned earlier, that we're rich every ten years and poor every ten years. We don't achieve good stability there. This is what we're looking for in good economy, that we're getting more stability. Sometimes it is better to grow a little slower, that the Kingdom would be careful not to fan the economy, in order to have a place to support the economy when it gives in. We'll experience the same thing once again, there'll be no deposit in a fund to support the economy when they need it because we'll have to praise it on the fixed budgets of the state to the extent of the expansion offered here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u265	A respectable president. In view of the fact that the financial agenda says: 'Environment confirms that this financial policy is consistent with the baselines and conditions set in 2 mg. Section 6. and 7th pars. Government law on public financial matters, however, is not explained in the budget of financial policy how financialism is the standard for public finance laws, which the General will not be able to confirm that financial policy is consistent with those at baseline. It is suggested that the proposal be referred to the government. The role and responsibility of the Synod is to review proposals from the government and to carry them out. It comes out of the question that the government's proposal for financialism is not based on baseline claims on government law, so it is our job to refer it back to the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u266	Mr. President. Here we take votes about a policy that will remain unchanged for five years. It's a course for almost all the stakeholders she's read. The policy is said to be a threat to stability, to be unrealistic, irresponsible, unremarkable, vague, unsullied, inexplicable, non-sustainable, lipophilic, and unfaithful. This is the assessment of experts and stakeholders. Then there is the policy of finding bad economy, economic management that allows for a reduction in taxes at the time of spending. No sane man sees this situation coming. So the union will vote against this bankrupt government policy and vote with its deportation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u267	V.E.G. President. We're here to vote on financial policy dissuades. I would like to point out that here is a general interpretation of baselines in policy reporting, and it is strongly associated with financial rules, the absolute value of policy, and it is totally disproportionate to dismiss policy policy. That's why I'm going to vote against this contraband.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u268	Mr. President. Not only do they lack full support by the way this financial agenda should meet the values of the values presented here. It is also quite clear from all the comments we have received that it is neither sustainable nor careful, nor does it include any financial stakes. This policy has received a complete fall score in the reviews. That's why we support her deportation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u269	Mr. President. The suggestion that financialism is a good quality of the state's wealth and the good standing of public funds. It is based on our looking ahead to less economic growth, and the need for the State to use the space it has to build up wood, which is what has been called for in the community but also to give evidence of good economy. It is also interesting to point out that this financial policy is the most advanced of all so far, much better than the previously proposed financial policies. So I'd say that we're here in a learning process with how we can take longer on financial matters and that we're going ahead in those policies and that this financial policy is considerably more realistic than what we've seen in the past. It is turned aside from the course that was once the last government on a special budget and saw how we can achieve harmony in reducing the debt of the state but also building up the necessary interiors that all of us should agree to be one of the most important interests of this community. So I'll be totally against this contraption, supporting that financialism will be taken care of here at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u270	A respectable president. In this vote, we vote on whether or not to reimburse the project which was established in the last financial policy that all irregular and monocommunications in the state funds will be spent to speed further down payment or to reduce the debt of nonsaturable pensions in order to trust in the financial status of the state. I think it's responsible, and I'll be delighted to see how the conservatives, the right men, the Independence Party, vote for this vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u271	Mr. President. The union will support the first two teams of this change proposal, which will come to a vote below, but they are subject to more growth in the public and faster payment of debt than is expected in the current policy. We do so with similar reasoning and can be found in the review of a financial body that emphasizes the need to build up the state's income base at the same time. It is not only a matter of looking to the side of the income when it is thought of as well. However, we will not support the 3rd team of changes, since he assumes that all monopolitan income will be spent in subsidies. The body believes that a part of the monogamist is in the singlesty investments in the inner areas of society.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u272	A respectable president. Pirates and I also object that all irregular and uniting funds will be spent in debt because it could simply result in a more profitable way of defending the coin, even by means of cost- and profit analysis, would show that there would be more money than subsidies. However, it is easily calculated while it is only harder to calculate the infrastructure, e.g. ... forsomethingdoing. Still, we need, as financial counsel has called for that information. We need to get a good list of projects that are cost - evaluated and improved so that we can make informed discussions about them and make decisions about priorities on such summation. That's why we're going to vote against 3.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u273	A respectable president. This government consists of several categories. One category wants to contribute significantly to the financial expenses. One of these groups doesn't want to raise taxes. These two can be combined, and this is done in this financial policy. But that means that something needs to be done. What we give up is the result of the treasure of the Kingdom. We don't think this is a responsible policy. On the other hand, we on restoration believe that this change of motion involves a much more responsible course and votes with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-22-43.u274	A respectable president. All the narratives we have received warned of the cooling of the economy so that, in view of it, it would be normal to increase the hold of the State. However, this is not only shown in the numbers that are here, although they show a higher maintenance of the magazine compared with the current financial policy of the state. There's more to it than that. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson spoke here in a talk earlier, with a source of income, and so on. This change, however, would show a measure of maintenance that is necessary now at the cooling of the economy in order to achieve the smooth landing that everyone hopes to achieve.
