ParlaMint-IS_2018-07-17-81.u1	Mr. President. I recommend a proposal for a hearing of approval for the continuation of General Assembly meetings according to Article 1. 23rd par. The constitution. The suggestion is as follows: ▪ The General concludes to agree that meetings will be postponed from July 18, 2018 to September 11, 2018. The motion is self-explanatory.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-07-17-81.u2	A respectable president. A general and educational committee has discussed the issues and aspects of the program. With regard to case No. In the United States, 676 cooperation projects of the European Parliament and of the Icelandic literary Society, the Committee was assigned to meet with Jón Sigurðsson from the Icelandic literary community. According to the proposal, the World Council of Churches conclude to cooperate with the Society in publishing literature on the Bookwork in Icelandic art and on the history of Icelandic literature from land mines to the 21st century; the General Assembly supports the publication financially by means of annual funds until its projects are completed. It is especially fitting that the Parliaments and Icelandic literary history will be made high in this way, in the preparation of literature at this milestone, and in support of the progress of the case. At the meeting of the Commission, which was shared with a professional committee, it also discussed proposals for the resolution of projects on the grounds of Iceland's 100-year sovereignty anniversary in behalf of children and young people, as well as research contributes to the sustainability of marine resources. A general and educational committee focused mainly on a-a team of proposals to form a children's culture fund in Iceland. At the meeting there might be a minister of education and culture, Alfreðsdóttir Alfreddsdóttir, and made an account of the case. According to the proposal, the General concluded that there will be a children's civilization fund in Iceland that will receive financial contributions for the next five years. The sea has the goal of funding and strengthening child - culture projects. Emphasis will be placed on projects that promote social awareness and contribute to the democratic involvement of children in the community and on projects that contribute to the continuation of the UN Convention on Children's Rights. Every second year, there will be a Synod that will address issues related to children and young people and their interests. Similarly, the committee shares in this matter, making it necessary and urgent that it be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-07-17-81.u3	Mr. President. At a joint meeting of the employment committee and the General and Education Committee, the proposal for the presidents of the political parties involved in a project on the grounds of Iceland's 100-year sovereignty anniversary was discussed, and it is designed to build a new ocean research vessel. The meeting arrived at the highest level. Marine and agricultural minister, Kristján Þór Júlíusson, and Sigurður the Guðjónsson of the Oceanographic Institute with Kristján Skarphéðinsson the son of Skarphéðinn, the head of the Marine and Agriculture Ministry, made this clear. The proposal is to begin building a ocean - research vessel with a special contribution on budgets for the next three years, 2019,2021. A professional health - care committee described their support for the suggestions, making the matter very urgent and necessary, and put special emphasis on the need for a new ocean research vessel in its spring financial review. Many changes have been made in the marine environment. Climate is changing. That has even been true. changes in fish stocks caught around Iceland are a major challenge, but monitoring of environmental ecosystems and changes in the survival of individual institutions is taking place. Contamination of the sea, including plastic is a serious problem that the nations face, and it is urgent to deal with. The year 2050 has been predicted to be more plastic than ocean fish. As a result, more research is needed along with the growing demand for further use of the oceans and the diversity of the environment found there. Clearly, a new ocean vessel will strengthen this research focus, as well as the time for the renewal of the research ships of the Marine Research Centre. The fireship, Bjarni Sæmundsson, is nearly 50 years old and does not meet the requirements of research ships for equipment and equipment. Over the centuries, the source of the sea source has been the foundation of something valuable here on earth called the national gold chest. The economic structure of society over the last 100 years has largely been based on the use of marine resources. How appropriate, then, for the nation's 100 - year sovereignty anniversary to attack on the construction of a new ocean projector and to rely even more fully on the responsible use of the sea that we have so much for the future of generations to come! Strong marine assessments and monitoring of the marine environment are the basis for continued sustainable use of the resource. Thus, the work committee agrees on the progress of the case, and it is especially fitting that the matter will be agreed on at this juncture.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-07-17-81.u4	The President's meeting will be announced by members of the Parliament to the Parliament's next meeting. Starts a meeting at the end of the day. 14 tomorrow, Wednesday, July 18th, compare Presidential Letters from July 10, 2018, as well as July 37. The Constitution, the General Assembly meeting place. It is the General Assembly meeting to commemorate the sovereignty anniversary. All right, everybody. Congress officials should have received the information about travel to Þingvall and the arrangements for the meeting that they need. President of Iceland, Guðni Th. Jóhannesson, attends the meeting and addresses it. Moreover, the president of the Danish Assembly will sit and address him on behalf of the Danish people. The talk is translated into English. Will this be the first time in later years as a foreign man addresses the Allied Council. The president and the Presidency Committee believe that the occasion is this time, at this council meeting, to commemorate such a great deal between the nations. I hope there's no comment on these President's plans. Thank you. The members of the council on this day's meeting, expecting us to see each one of you tomorrow at the House Hall in the weather.
