ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u1	Borist wrote letters from the Goddignant of Brjánsson Brennsson, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Líneik Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótir, Bergþór Ólason, and Björn Leví Gunnarsson that they cannot attend next session. So today, on Monday, September 17, we are taking their place at the General Assembly, which served as guardians for the 1st United States Association of Norway. " Arna Lára Jónsdóttir, 1st Lipper of the Left Motion left, Southk Green offering, Heiða Guðný Ásgeirsdóttir, 2nd Specialist of the Middle East. "The Bogi of Hafliðason, but the 1st deputy has announced an instigator, the 1st Lipper of the Central Party in Norway. "Maríanna Eva Ragnarsdóttir, and 1 strategist of Pirata, Rapv. S., Olga Margrét Cilia. They have all settled in the World Congress before, except Heiða the Guðný of the new Ásgeirsdóttir, and are welcome back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u2	The letter of Heiða Guðný new Ásgeirsdóttir's daughter has already been investigated and agreed, but it has not previously taken place in the Council, as it were, and must be signed by the order to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u3	Heiða the Guðný - given daughter Ásgeirsdóttir has signed a royal pledge to the Constitution and is welcome to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u4	The president would like to draw attention to the fact that the non-prepared period of inquiry, on the basis of an agreement, can last longer Monday than a body council would expect to discover up to six queries. To answer these questions, Prime Minister, Economic and Economic Ministers, Health Ministers, travel, industrial and innovation Ministers, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Fisheries and Agriculture Ministers, Environmental and Resource Ministers and Foreign Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u5	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest. HCP on safety. Recently, a common and life - threatening drug has not been used in pharmacists, and there have been cases of problems with patients. This is a good indication, not of medicines that can be abused, but of drugs that heart patients need, arthritis, psoriasis, and thyroid people. Sellulene, metoprolol, tipranolol, digoxin, isoptine, frudinostin, betnovat, flornef, leggets, these are all examples of the names of poorly prescribed medicinal products. There is no need to have many words about the inconveniences this deficiency causes patients and those who suffer from it. I'd like to ask the highest part of this relationship. Minister if she has had some problems with this problem, whether it is expected to be handled. Could it be possible to increase the requirements for drugs and drug dealers in general? It may be noted that there is some connection between the whole room and the patient at all times, and the subsequent loss of this license is repeated and that the collective does not meet its primary obligations to health care users and does not ensure that medicinal products prescribed are always available, life - threatening medicinal products are always in the market?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u6	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator of this inquiry. I have to say, I was surprised when I realized that this is a common problem in Iceland. In some way, a person believes that we do not have to live with a list of medicines when it comes to common and important drugs. It just so happens that there's a new bill coming, which is a complete review of the medications, since we specifically address these aspects of the spirit in the mood. A senator mentions, i.e. that there is a clearer separation to the entire teem to return these drugs to the market. I've had a lot of wind with this, yeah, like a bad one. A senator asks. What is more, I have requested by the office of quality and preemptives that this matter will be specifically addressed at the next meeting with the EMA, where it will be considered individually, but perhaps primarily as to what to do. Usually, when we are talking about drugs, we tend to talk primarily about new drugs and expensive drugs. Sadly, though, it is more common than you may realize in advance that there is a lack of drugs that are both far less expensive and that have considerable experience and are unofficial. I just want to reiterate my gratitude to the senator for bringing this up and impressing me on this subject. I have already requested that this case be on the front of the next meeting with the Institute of Medicine.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u7	Thank you very much. Minister answers. The prescription contains regulations for the import of this medicinal product as it is authorised that the sale will be undertaken by the pharmacist who has a working permit in this country and is in place of facilities, equipment and staff and will meet the requirements for storage and handling of medicinal products. Some see, he needs a letter of this, he needs a test and a stock, but there's no provision that he has to care for these basic responsibilities with users of health care. This may be the result of a bigger problem, which seems to be expected at all times that users of health care are primarily using health care in order to misuse it and that users of health care care are misuses to health care and have to somehow prove that they are not. I expect reforms and hope for them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u8	A respectable president. The core of our pharmaceutical policy is, in fact, twofold, to ensure bioavailability of drugs and, on the other hand, the cessation of abuse. It can be, as a means of understanding, a difficult road, and just and right. One member noted, that we must be careful that the main element is not about stopping abuse and losing sight of the importance of this vital aspect of health care and is in line with the world's best interests. Iceland's High School of Economics is making an assessment of the local retail market, how it has been developing over the past few years, whether it is in line with the objective of the law, and how we want to see a retail of drugs developing because it is a natural part of health care, in accordance with all normal definitions, and it is important that professional requirements are respected as well as anywhere else in the medical profession.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u9	A respectable president. V.E.G. The secretary of finance has just offered a financial bill, so it is no doubt in his mind how difficult it can be to meet the needs of health care in Iceland. I'll give myself to the highest. A minister agrees with me on the fact that we can assume that the health - care cost will only increase progressively and, as a result, become increasingly important to the taxpayers, the public, to get as much money as possible for this category. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister, the man holding the government box for the public: What's his opinion that it is constantly increasing that it appears or is at least The persistent condition of the patients to look to a foreign country for actions that are unique to me is often understood to be more often and often more expensive than the same procedure if they were performed in Iceland? Of course, this is a travel cost, the cost of living, and all the inconveniences resulting from the need to seek medical treatment in foreign lands, even though it was available at home. If the highest. With regard to this unwise use of public funds, will the secretary of finance use himself for a change? And that there are more and more people using the services available in Iceland, hopefully reaching the country more doctors, since according to expert physicians, there are probably dozens of highly educated Icelandic doctors in foreign lands who do not trust to come home and work in the environment that is being offered here, so they should? The patients are sent to them, rather than come to Iceland to participate in the medical system here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u10	A respectable president. This inquiry may include a few very large and important surfaces in the country of health care. First, the importance of using the money as best we can into the medical system, and there I think we are, not just me and the other. A senator holds all those in this room together, very agreeing. Please enter a waiting list. Why a Waiting List? Why are we faced with the need in some cases to agree that patients cross borders to qualify for services? It is not enough to say that it is unfortunate for us to sit down with the cost. Rather, we need to dig deeper and go to the root of the problem. When people ask, " Am I supporting the use of the personal contribution of the health system as we have so far, I think that no one will be surprised that I believe it is normal for me to make personal contributions in the health system, such as we already see in so many areas, e.g. Free partnerships, such as FRI or simply all the dentists in the country who are driven primarily on a personal basis. I think it's perfectly clear that we can guarantee this. I believe, however, that it is important to dig deeper than to examine such extraordinary factors. It should be central to the fact that all people of the country are secure quality services, all basic services, that we use the health system in the country to meet the criteria for this issue, and that no one should worry about whether he is looking for this place or when it comes to a good service, to receive the right medication. I think there is a need to re-supply our system, there's a little too rigid and too much buttock, and there's a need for a complete approach. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u11	A respectable president. V.E.G. A minister responded in a very general way to a complete approach. But will the Minister employ himself? In June of this year, there were 224 people on a waiting list for hip surgery who had waited for more than three months and thus had the right to seek out that service abroad. After knee surgery, 472 were on the wait, and they had the right to go abroad for the ministry. Very much. For example, does a financial minister promote increased opportunities for people to take such action on the land? It's not for a reason I'm asking, chief. Minister, because we've just seen the bill of the Senate's left movement appear to appear to appear to be put on the head of this operation, where it is spoken of as a man may not profit - perhaps not a reward? I don't know, because the suffering of people in Iceland is getting better. It just needs to be added to a human being who does so in Sweden. Very much. A financial minister uses the means to provide relief for more people, to solve their problems in the country? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u12	A respectable president. Yes, I think there is a simple answer to that question. I'll go for it. All of us in the government will use ourselves to do so. The health - care minister is trying to shorten a waiting list, ensuring better health care. We're raising the funding of the system, but it's my opinion, so I'm trying to narrow the answer a little, that we need to be better at buying health care in the country, both in the public, Public health institutions, but also privates. I think it should be thought of when we are considering the personal enterprise in health care that in certain areas we are buying far more of a particular service, taking as an example a carotid receptors, than we know elsewhere. There's some action there. At the same time, I am convinced that we will not be successful in shortening a waiting list and securing the maximum quality of the service and including the use of funds unless we find the right balance in the interaction of public health services and then the role of the private sector aside. [[The president calls.]] We'll all use ourselves to keep this going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u13	Mr. President. I'd like to direct a question to the highest. Ministers of housing, but housing matters are one of the legal areas under the President's orders that are responsible for the social and equal services of the minister. A U.S.R. survey was conducted in the largest labor union in the country, on what it is that a member wants to put first, put first in the huskwoods of its union in the future dress winters. It has often been said that governments can handle the issue and the highest. A minister has mentioned this and mentioned it on a talk that is good. This is also shown in the government covenant adopted by all the government groups. It says, by permission of the president: The government will exert itself for a concerted effort with the labour market partners to ensure that collective agreements will bring real benefits to the employees and society. Real benefit has been observed, i.e. what would be real value for this country's largest labor union, VR. The survey noted that one requirement for housing reform is to cover the expenses. Now we've seen what the government is suggesting in its budget bill and head of the VR, after it came out, was not pleased with what he saw there and said, by permission of the President: ▪ If this is a conclusion, I think the government realizes that there is going to be a huge conflict. Our members will never accept this. He speaks of them as achieving their policy, and now it is established by the support or presence of 3,600 members of the community in a democraticly active way within the community. That's it. Reaching out the cost of housing. I'd like to ask the highest. The minister of housing what he sees to see that he can do - and according to the Treaty, the government intends to employ a concerted effort with the labour market partners - in order to cover the cost of housing, including that it is one of the requirements that has come from this country's largest union. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u14	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson for this inquiry, and agree with him as the lead, as well as with the president of the VR, that I think the building case will be the major case of the upcoming labour agreement and politics in general because we will need a more radical approach to that class than it has been. I'd like to add that the government is taking a step on a budget bill next year with 800 million. K. increase from year to year in general packaging. More radical, however, changes are needed. The government is preparing measures not only to promote the administration but also to the arterial force of the event. I'm expecting that to happen soon. It is also in preparation and has been a very good conversation and cooperation with the labor movement, both with the VR, ASI, and any other member of the board, to shape any aspects that we together have to discuss over the next few weeks and months about the housing issues and particularly the rented market. How can we really increase the structure of unfortunate tenants, which are actually adverse, as seen in many North countries? How can we improve land supply in Reykjavík, in the capital area, and in neighboring communities near the capital area? How can we help with the funding of these tenants, who are truly adverse and with the entrance of unions and others? It's all the details we're starting a conversation with the labor movement now. It is full of political wills to get right into that conversation. I expect that in the following days, there will be some decisions about how this conversation will be conducted. I'm looking forward to that cooperation because I know it's a big deal and I think I know it. A senator agrees.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u15	Mr. President. It's good to hear a very positive tone from the highest level. Minister of housing in this regard. As we know, this talk is that there has been an increase in financial power and wages that have increased so that more dollars have been found in the pockets of most of the people of the country, and these crowns are giving more than that amount of money, which we can quite see in numbers from the Haust, all gone from the busiest people in the tenants of rent. As indicated by the 2011 Haustabroom, housing, index of housing and rent prices in the capital area, has been reported to be 100%. The rent has increased by 100% since 2011. Then all the power of riches is gone, and much more. It's what burns on so many people. When they're talking about being so good and things are going so well, they're not here to find them, they just feel less money, more work and more difficult to have. So I agree with the Minister, it's going to be one of the big cases on this dress winter, and it's good to hear that the Minister is good at putting it on. One short in the rest, what would this reduce rent prices, the suggestions the Minister has?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u16	A respectable president. I think that when the Generals agreed to the general apartment law, and we took a very significant step in developing general apartments, where societies, unions, and others are involved, then I think that, as a result, the attitude has generally changed in these matters. Now I think that men are much more favorable to taking action to improve the economic problems of tenants. I repeat, not only do unions have to be involved, they can be communities and other parties. I think at this point it would be irresponsible to say exactly what conversation with the labor movement would mean for the lower cost of living. It's just gonna have to be seen. But I restate that it can be done in a number of ways, using practical means of financing, discussing it, and building it. It is also of utmost importance that rural society is actively involved in this with increasing land supply. That's where I even look. To Reykjavík, and how quickly. A member of the council to have the city's city pressure pressed into this. But we are also to watch rural areas around the capital, since the capital area is expanding, and this area is all under control. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u17	Mr. President. Sometimes it is said that the health system in this country is the best thing in the world. All should be able to enjoy and obtain the necessary medical care without regard to the economy. This is where I'm going to take into account the payment of health insurance in the dental rights of those born with a split palate or lip and a direct inquiry to the highest level. Secretary of health. Of course, parents'economic status should not depend on how they deal with the birth defects of children born in this country. Hence, it seems that when your child grows older, health insurance does not provide all the necessary measures to prevent severe jaw damage caused by this defect. Parents with babies born with split palates and split lips automatically enter these dental dishes, and health insurance pays 95% of the cost due to dental due to this birth defect. However, the other group, the children with only split palates, does not receive it in any way from health insurance, and parents need to pay it out of their own pockets if they choose to try to prevent aggravating, a cross bite, a bottom bite, or a drawer, which are common coherences of this defect. It is now a matter of parental economy that the child's well - being and well - being progresses. Some simply cannot afford these dental dishes. That's why I want to ask the highest. Healthcare Minister: What's your plan? Ministers do to bring justice to this group? In any case, parents who have a child who has a large child choose to take part in the early dental procedures.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u18	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. For several months I have been aware that there has been differences between the families in question and Iceland's health insurance in what to pay and it seems to me that it is a matter of opinion about how the Regulation is interpreted. This is not sufficient in these circumstances. What I've done after this morning's discussion and this weekend is asking that these issues be examined in the Ministry with the intention of making a change in Regulation to explain the status of these children who have a gap in their sense and/or palate. My will is to correct this discrimination as a matter of course. A senator brings up the matter. This is an abnormal arrangement, I agree with the senator and with the parents who have taken the lead in discussing these matters. This needs to be fixed, and we need to figure it out, hopefully it's going really fast, but I've specifically asked for the Ministry to take the job to prepare a possible change in Regulation for that purpose.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u19	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A health minister for her answers, and I am pleased to hear that she agrees with my question. That's very happy to hear. It appears that this 2013 law is based on nothing changed in recent years. However, the 2013 Regulation was modified, causing this group to fall between a staff and a door. That is why I also ask, " Why was this law changed so badly to this group of parents and children? ' It's not a big group. The statistics say that one such child is born in this country; therefore, this may not be the pressure group that has been able to pressure on the apparent unfairness of the subject. Therefore, the parents of a child with this birth defect that cannot afford this action need to sit and see the child's problems grow year by year with associated psychological crisis of the child and the parents, who end up in one way in adulthood to have an expensive painful and difficult operation for which the State pays. [[The president calls.]] I don't think I've had all the time I was supposed to, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u20	That's what President thinks. One minute is just one minute in length.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u21	A respectable president. I don't know the history of the changes to this Regulation as a matter. A senator asks, but I am both kindly and obliged to report it in other ways, either by e - mail or otherwise, if he specifically wishes to know the history of these changes and provides the basis for that decision at any given time. But I think the main thing is, and I have found no one to contradict it, either in politics or elsewhere, that it is simply a position that I think was neither the lawgiver's objective at any point nor I now speak of the one that has signed the Regulation at any other point, to place these parents and these children in such an equal position. I still want to thank you. A senator for asking this question and giving me an opportunity to express this will of mine clearly here in the public address.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u22	A respectable president. I'm in a place similar to what I'm doing. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. Since I felt that there was little to answer. There will be an opportunity for a financial minister to respond in a slightly clearer way now. Others are concerned about the way we are in the health - care system. The government has screwed up new agreements with experts, despite the loss of dozens of specialists and the great lack of health care that they have done in many areas, so much that we need to send patients out of the country at high cost on some political agreement that we do not want to negotiate with even the same doctors who conduct these foreign procedures with the costs of health insurance. We don't trust ourselves to negotiate with the same people about the cost of home participation at home with a substantial cost to the government. It is not just the one standing here or the other. paritaprevir This concern is the Sigmundur over Davíð Gunnlaugsson. Three platoon members at the highest. A fine article was written by a minister in the Morning Press this weekend. So I must ask the highest. The minister of the simple question: Does he share the anxieties expressed by his fellow followers in this fine article? Secondly, with the highest. The minister is exactly the minister of finance: Does the Minister consider it a practical use of public funds when sending patients abroad into operations that could be handled in this country with much less cost, and as a result, more action and speed up the waiting list? Is that a wise use of public money? Is this same use of public resources in accordance with the government's code of ethics, just that ministers are being advised in the management of government funds? It may be simple to answer the last question.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u23	A respectable president. It's probably once more here, I've said so many times before in the media and elsewhere, that, of course, it's not a good deal of public money when we're stuck with the cost of action that could be done at home on account of one reason that the patients have the right to go abroad and we're given a triple bill. Probably everyone agrees on this, but it's just not enough to answer that question. It needs to go deeper. We have less than 1 billion in the budget now for the next year to shorten a waiting list. It's the basic problem. I think it would be nice if men first asked themselves, " Why are you creating a list of company lists? ' What can be the role of certain health - care institutions in the country to help prevent them from forming? How can we get the maximum use of money that comes from playing in health matters in general? The government needs to be able to control the use of funds, both when it comes to buying public health services, and where I am, for example. to refer to the hospital, to others. We need to be able to define it clearly what we expect of the Land Hospital when we provide him with funds and the same thing as in other health care institutions, no matter where they are on this private spectrum, a free organization, private agencies owned by doctors, clinics, or health care centers, or what they are. I'm of the opinion that we are, as I said before, with a slightly over-sized system and there is a need for a general policy development. I'm glad the Minister is working on it now, but it's important that they achieve a good understanding of the overall policy barrier. I'd like to end up here because there's a contract in force with expert physicians, he hasn't been dumped, and there's a full will for the Minister for whom she could answer so well to this point to make a new deal, but I'll agree that it's important that things happen. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u24	President. In fact, I know it from my previous job to reach contracts need to start negotiations, which I understand have not yet begun despite the fact that there are only three months before these contracts expire. So, of course, I'm worried about how late it is and how much uncertainty the government creates by refusing to initiate negotiations with expert physicians in just three months' time. There is no way to avoid saying, and it is obvious that there is a lack of policy in these areas, there is no other word about government policy. This place has somehow stopped, it's freezing out until the government has developed a policy in the group of paints. Contract agreements with expert physicians are not made, no new expert experts are added to existing contracts. In view of the high cost of government funds, which leads to the sending of patients in much more expensive operations abroad, and the most expensive of all, it is not for patients to receive the services they need, I must ask: Will the Supreme Court. Minister to promote a change in this policy of the government, or will he allow the articles of his fellow followers to succeed?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u25	A respectable president. They're here asking me about a field under another minister. I'll answer that for my part. Of course, contracts need to be made. I believe it will be done. I agree that until new contracts have come, there is a certain uncertainty that is unpleasant. I hear like all of us that those involved would want to eliminate the uncertainty as soon as possible. I think it applies simply to all of us, including the health minister and the Ministry. It is far preferable to get a conclusion as soon as possible. I also believe that we should have an environment here to attract home to Iceland all the doctors who would like to live here and build a future for their families, that it is an attractive environment in Iceland at all times. It is a ongoing task to care for the health system. The objective should be based on the patient's viewpoints and how we provide as our best health care providers, always access to Icelanders in a new health policy for the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u26	Mr. President. I'd like to allow myself to direct a inquiry to the highest level. Health Minister on health care policies. The country's best health care has been examined repeatedly, the last and last elections, and it seems clear that the country prefers more than anything else to get solid and good public health care. If I assume that the will has been reduced, then at least you'll hear it. The nation's call for the necessary service every week, and actually almost every day. We in the United States warmly welcome the work that is now said to be going on at the Ministry of Health, where there's a basic health policy for Iceland, which I believe is a long time ago. However, I am concerned that during this policy effort, the required service will fail. These are the services of the free partners who have had various jobs in charity, mental health care services, treatment services for addicts and alcoholics, brain failure, physical transportation, and so forth. We're talking about the Fictions and the Caitas, the Red Cross, Crysuvik, and more and more that seem to have either been closed, closing - at least there are no deals. That's why I want to ask the highest. Health Minister to the work being done at the Ministry on Health Care Policy: When can you expect any kind of good news? That's going to happen this year, the highest. Minister? Will this happen next year? Will it happen during this terms? I think we all, Americans, really need to know something about the time frame of that task.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u27	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his interest in health policy. I spoke to some members of the council here on Friday discussing my section of the budget bill, but why. A senator was not at the time in the house. It turned out that the time line is in such a way that health policy is being developed in the Ministry. There will be a meeting with the Office of the Ministry now on October 2 and on October 3, where there will be an open health conference that will be discussed with the current medical conference. As with the clear readers of the Constitution of the government, potential eyes are also expected to be proposed to the General Assembly at the spring Summit, which will then be expected to be granted by the General Assembly. I expect that there will be a clear political event, because I think there are a lot more common expressions on health policy than we sometimes do. Hv. A senator asks about and lists a list of services that she is concerned about while working on health policy. I want to tell her and to assure her and to the assembly throughout the world that there is no service that falls apart from anything that is truly accepted. It's not so, it's not. A senator mentions social services, ambulance operating, or anything else. Changes have been made in various of these substances, but this is everywhere, so during the inter-diastolic situation, it is certain that the service is not impaired. I would like to mention the decision of the U.S.A., one - sided decision to report services to young users of alcohol and drugs under 18 years of age, but the U.S.A. has been asked to perform the ministry since the U.S. decision was made because there is no service for this group to be offered while considering other solutions. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u28	Mr. President. I thank the senator's kindly greeting about the being here on Friday, when it was being discussed with the financial bill, and I can tell him that the senator stood here on a strict stand from nine in the morning until midnight, so the senator was certainly in a house all day long, listening carefully. I appreciate the answer. For not falling down any service, I'm not sure that those users currently use services in the media, e.g. and to appear every day unless all of this is false news, and those who call for the required service agree with the highest service. A health minister to ensure that the services are rendered at the time of the other and that the event will fall. Of course, because of the mental - health services we were receiving daily mail from the Council. It has been closed or is about to close the CFD in Akureyri. Of course, these people can only arrange for someone else to attend this service or to go abroad, but you may wonder about it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But perhaps at the end of the council arrangement that arrives in spring: Is the Minister of Health Doesn't worry that it can't get through government and government classes? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u29	A respectable president. First of all, it's what it's all about. Last spoke by a senator: No, I'm not worried that health policy cannot penetrate any of the members of the administrations or through the government. This policy discusses man - made design, quality of life, the purchase of health - care services that we have been repeatedly advised need to deal with in a clearer way than we have. The equations are discussed, and there are other factors I believe, that the whole U.S. Congress agrees that a common policy needs to be sealed. My conclusion is that health policy should be part of the Community Convention. We are not to be drawn into the spirit that has been applied at times. It's not the end of the field trip in Akureyri, even though it's happening. A senator says so. It has been said that it might exist. I've had those issues on my mind. And because of what? A senator here refers to the Source of Comfort; Psychotics ▪ escorted the mental - health team to a certain group of people. [[The president calls.]] I have been expressed, and I have been assured that this group will enjoy and will enjoy the services of new mental - health professionals in the capital area.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u30	Mr. President. It is well known that not all citizens of the country are sitting at the same table when access to electricity is available. Thus, the West enjoys unacceptable energy insecurity, as well as the lack of electricity transport to the Eyjafjörður area. This situation has been ongoing for some time. It is obvious that there is a need for reform if the social agreement is to exist here, that we want to stay all over the country, and that the settlements can thrive and thrive in a sustainable and environmentally friendly manner. It is clear from the government's treaties that there is a willingness to do better and that electricity transport and distribution systems must meet better needs in the country and in public. This is a major disintegration of electricity quality in land areas. Last August, power - related power broke out on the H.A. Power Station, so that many people no doubt remember. On that occasion, Guðrún Hafsteinsdóttir, president of the Association of Industrial Society and marketing director of Kjörisss, one of the largest firms in Who Types, said that this was more than a single case in that town than many of her members at the Industrial Association in the country, e.g. In the Eyjafjörður and Westfjordur, we had almost a persistent lack of electrical asthma and impairment, and we couldn't expand our business or increase our business because of lack of electricity. So I continue on the same page, but the rural network needs to be built up further in order to deliver three-phase electricity everywhere, which is the basis for the provision of mediums and larger companies. The situation is, however, that the transport systems of electricity in this country are severely limited and in certain places the system cannot otherwise expand its transport; thus, it is not possible to deal with users' requests for increased use. In addition, the current users may need to be reduced during periods of stress in some territories. In some cases, this situation, these limitations, has prevented job development, in which a successful business cannot expand and develop because of lack of electricity. While it is natural to highlight the impact of this position on enterprises and employment in these areas, the homes there are also affected by this, for the lack of electricity in general and tensions that damage electronic devices and the like. Mr. President. A climate - related operation program was introduced earlier this month. Among the important activities presented there were the increased share of renewable fuels in ships and then electricalization rejection. This is an important step in achieving these target targets, but it is also clear that it will be a challenge to achieve them in the regions involved in the current electricity supply. That's why I'm asking the highest. Firstly, Minister: At a government meeting on January 19, a proposal was adopted at the highest level. Minister to appoint a staff to work on long-term energy policies according to a government contract that is well and well. The question is, What alternative to this long - term plan is supported by the government to cover the access of such areas as Western and Eyjafjörður to electricity? When can the inhabitants of these areas expect a solution? Second, I ask: In areas where electricity output is low, the scope of diesilised electricity is higher than in other areas. Is it acceptable, in the opinion of the Minister, that in a country of such clean energy as Iceland, there are companies forced to drive on so-called unclean energy if they want to work at other levels, build up their work on the West, or at the island time? Third off, Mr. President, I'd like to be here at the end of the line looking for the Whiskerry. Ideas of the activation of Whale Hall in Unsolved on the Beach Coast are now nearly 100 years old. However, in view of the temperature that has been discussed during the last few weeks, it is important to consider the electronic debate on the West to receive answers from the highest level. Ministers to whether she considers Investigation to be the best way to increase electricity safety on the West. If so, will the government claim that way? Is it possible to agree within the government on the road that the legislation has put the matter into place by setting the activation in a frame plan or a novelty when a Framework Plan was adopted in 2013?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u31	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for requesting this discussion of energy security. It is important that we discuss it at the council Hall. I'm especially happy and will answer the three questions asked by the Senator. Regarding the first question, it is true that not everyone in the country sits at the same level when it comes to the delivery of electricity. There is anxiety and one of many things that we need to correct. Of course, this has not been the case for very many years and even so. That is why it is in the government covenant to find special emphasis on that. I'm celebrating them, and we're working on them. A good example of this - or a bad example of this, perhaps, could be said - is Western and Eyjafjörður, as well. A senator points out. During the spring council, at the General Assembly of Congress, I gave a proposal that I proposed to the government's policy on the building of the electrical transport system. It contains clear emphasis and goals on government, which should take into account the structure of the transport system via the Landsnet System. This document specifically refers to Western and Eyjafjörður as an area that must be prioritized when the delivery process is due. I have to say, that case was well treated and discussed at the council. At the same time, I would like to say that I was almost surprised and found the harmony that all of us agree to make some adjustments. The resolution was agreed with all paid votes and gave the committee one opinion. I think it shows that we're on the right track. We will then see immediately that these priorities have already been used in the priority of Landsnet's implementation in the transport system. These include Combat Line 3 and Holasarndian Line, linking the Eyjafjörður region to the River Valley activation. At Combat Line 3, the estimated period of implementation is 2019◯2020 and at the Hloasinnd Line 20202-0.2021. They will produce a vastly improved supply of electricity in the Eyjafjörður area. These two projects amount to $14 billion, and they are hopeful that both will be completed in the season of election. The same can be said of construction on the West. There the Landsnet has set priorities for projects with reference to the emphasis on the above - mentioned synonym. So we'll see right away that it's working. The arrival of a democratic elected representative that the synopsis will then come in priority to Landsnet. These include that a sea cable against the Eagle Fjords will probably be rushed due to the Senate resolution. More might be mentioned, such as a ring connection in Snæfells and a double link at Ness shop. It is therefore a joy to see that the government's policy, as it shows in our resolution to Congress, will come about through the priorities of Landsnet. That's why I say again that we're on the right track. As for the two questions, the answer to the question is simply and clearly that I don't believe it acceptable that in a country that has as much cleaner energy as Iceland, companies in certain parts of the country are forced to drive on unclean energy. As noted above, we have tried to react by making clear emphasis where the Landsnet takes into account the construction of the transport system. In the synonym, there is special emphasis on the use of diesel for the fish - flounder. For example, the emphasis is already being made, Landsnet recently introduced the rapid recovery of electrical tensions to Thors Harbor, with the view that the fish - craze there can drive electricity instead of diesel oil. There is no need for many words that all national and environmental arguments support this goal. This is what we will continue to work on for the terms of the season. It's, like, a... one of the basic factors in working in the preparation of long-term energy policy, which is exactly right. A senator says it takes time to win it and to implement it. Finally, the best way to increase the safety of electricity on the West is to ask whether the government will promote this route. Invasion would improve electrical safety in the West to improve the development of the Vests would likely be independent of the large part of the west line, which has been very unstable. A west line is as if the only electrical power rush into the Westfjords and runs from the Hurlimey to the Snowyear activation, about 100 miles [160 km] away. The extent of delivery safety would increase with this being depends on where the connection would be located at the west line, whether it would be submerged or eastly, with the extent of the west line being independent. With regard to government access, it is not the government's decision to implement the initial action. Such decisions apply to legal processes that play a key role in the framework. The General Assembly deals with these matters and then accepts appropriate licence procedures, organizational procedures, and such.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u32	V.E.G. President. First, thank you for calling attention to the important issue of energy security in Iceland. Most of this shows that the transport system is much leet, and the delivery security in many parts of the country is being put at risk because of this. Excessive pressures are increasing the risk of interference with electrical transport, as well as for the ability of fluctuations to cause significant damage to users. In addition, in certain areas the lines are not round, such as is on the West, as a saying rightly points out. The same is true in the Southnes line 1, where a Southnes line 1 is the only link between Theisian Peninsula and the continental transport systems of the Landsnet. It's obviously not okay, including. in view of the fact that the largest international airport in the country is located there. There is a similar situation on Snæfellsnes. Similarly, the situation of electrical energy transport systems on the West is completely unacceptable, especially since it is clear that the area is not self-sustained by electricity. The situation is, in effect, that 70% of the energy spent on Western soil during wintertime is introduced from other areas of the country and over 50% in the summertime. Of course, that's not okay. Electric energy transport system can be said to be a fundamental system for all of us, whether in play or in a job, we need electricity. We need to deal with energy exchanges in transport and greater power use by homes, hosts and companies. It is unacceptable that 2018 will have an enterprise and an area of insecurity in transporting electricity and the high cost it brings. We must expect this and demand that increased power and speed be put in the construction and distribution systems of the land and the priority of capitals where the situation is the worst. At the same time, we must choose whether there are no practical ways to speed up the adjustment of the line. Significantly, since the birth of the Landsnet 13 years ago, a single line of wire was not reached to ensure delivery security, except for line-authorizations associated with Breed cell activation and Electrolytelet activations that have nothing to do with electronic energy security. There must be an unacceptable situation for Icelanders, that although there is excess energy in the country, electricity cannot be guaranteed. [[The president calls.]] In Akureyri, for example, it is impossible to build a industry where safe electricity cannot be obtained, such as winter. A saying called attention to the situation. The situation in Akureyri is so serious that companies that have established oil cylinders for electricity production and in the West, the situation is that the Landsnet itself has installed large diesel machines that are regularly run to ensure electrical energy in those areas. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This must be a sobering situation at the same time that the government has made ambitious plans for climate change. [[The president calls.]] The electromechanism of these areas weakens their competitive position and can cause companies to think twice before placing themselves in these areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u33	The president kindly reminds the Parliament to respect a talk period.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u34	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson's son, Hannah, for starting this case to honor and honor and thank the Minister for his initiative. It's a matter I've talked about, and I'm burning a little bit on my skin. It has been one of the main priorities of the Central Party policy that all the people around the country sit at the same table when it comes to infrastructure. Of course, there is one big issue, especially electrical energy delivery security. It is very special that in our beautiful and clean country, rich in green energy, as well as the best technical skills and experience of the workers in this article, the supplyability of electricity should not be more than seen. I learned and worked in electric activation at the time, and I know the subject well from that side. I remember the electronic work that cables and wires were not allowed to be seen, but the customer insisted that the switch or the link return what was suggested. This is reflected when various groups speak of the pollution, environmental impacts, and unmoved nature. I'll tell you, I'm a environmental and naturalist. When it comes to the environmental effects of action, I feel that the discussion of social influence is always missing. In my opinion, this is one reason the issue of safety is not in a better place than it really is. Wherever we live, we must always see and detect electric lines. There is a need to speed up and ensure the transport of electrical energy across the country, one of the conditions for the development of organic and commercial life in all parts of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u35	A respectable president. I thank you for the opportunity to discuss here once again a electrical situation. We need to talk about it almost every day. V.E.G. A minister came into the policy of the government, and I would like to cut down only because there are many good questions to ask about many things that governments are doing and about to do. One of these questions is answered in the Mosaic Law, which says, by permission of a president: The government's legislature project must be used as the most efficient means of energy already being activated. To this end, the transport and distribution systems of electricity in the country need to be more reliable, closer to key areas, and ensure that electricity delivery across the country. It will be considered to what extent this network can be used effectively. There will not be an attack in line over the highlands. Here is a number of the factors that an inquirer introduces in his query and the highest. A minister only brought it into his own suit as well. A professional health committee came to a great degree to agree on speaking even more strongly. The key areas were defined there, specifically stated, and made an adjustment proposal to add to the Eyjafjörður, Western and Southern areas. Much was stressed that there would be a careful consideration for electronics in these areas, which was specifically introduced by a candidate in his query. As indicated by the words I quoted in the Treaty, it is a better use of the energy already activated by this government. The West can be seen especially in this regard. Asks how to ensure energy security there. These include putting the chapter of a line in the ground and at the highest. A minister did well over what the Landsnet was doing on the farsights of the weather. I'll give you the animal tunnel, the ocean cable under Eagle Fjord, and so on. [[The president calls.]] In other words, we need to make better use of and expand the energy already activated.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u36	Madam President. Iceland's energy security is an interesting subject, and many good things have been said about it already. But in my mind it may be primarily about balance. Iceland's energy levels are limited, there's a measure of energy efficiency, it's a ratio of production and balance needs to be achieved. This is about two things; to ensure that enough energy is present now and to ensure that enough energy will be available in the future. The other day, I wondered, " How did the housemaking go on in the past? ' Of course, only a small amount of trees and coal were brought in, so there was a mess when a whale was not available. Fortunately, things are better today than we are still dependent on oil imports such as gasoline and diesel on cars and, of course, reserves, to avgas and avgs on airplanes and black oils on ships that still burn such things. Then there are places like Grimbey, where power still comes from fossil fuels. This comes in addition to an electrical distribution system, which is, in most respects, good and ensures largely the amount of energy we need, but it might be better for the future, as expressed in the case of the highest power. Minister. To balance your accounting, you need to do some things. First we need to reduce use using more efficient machines, more efficient methods such as better isolation of houses and such, more efficient life - styles such as increasing public transport and so on, to improve our sustainability through more efficient use of renewable energy. Of course, these two things are not shocking, and I'm going to review our prospects in my second speech, but we in general need to continue what we've been talking about over the past few decades, doing so better and even trying to give in. At the moment, we do not have the necessary energy security, and this could become a problem at any time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u37	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson, for calling attention to this important language class. The stability of electricity in the Landsnet system is mentioned in the West. Inset of Landsnet's report on the 2012 service team, the following comments on the provisional security of electrical power on the West: ▪ Landsnet will continue to work for analysis to result in improved electricity supply on the West. Many years have passed since then. Although there may be some ideas involved, nothing much has happened. However, there has been extensive discussion as to whether Investigation is the solution to the delivery security of electrical energy on the West. The activation of the Whale Hall itself does not result in increasing the power security but depends on how it will be connected, as it has been shown here. Therefore, it is of great importance that as this activation option continues to be carried out on these issues, i.e. links and transport routes. A point of communication in the Icefjords and then into the Milk River is essential for the activation to help with electrical security. Now, the route is just the west line, which runs through a mountain road in one of the most difficult areas of the country. In addition, activation opportunities in the Ísafjörður are available to ensure the safety and the possibility of a cyclic link. But a new interface point has not been established on Landsnet's implementation programme, so there is still uncertainty. Job development in the West as well as in the Eyjafjörður, suffers from the prevalence of electricity in these areas. This will make the region less competitive in building both jobs and habitats. During 2015, community costs due to unstable electricity in Western Europe were estimated in over half a billion. [[The president calls.]] I come to another part of the next talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u38	Madam President. Hv. The perfunctory points to the issue of security, and can particularly concerning the challenge of Whirlization for this discussion. This warrants a brief discussion of the benefits of controversial activation when it comes to the delivery of electrical security on the West, which, of course, all agree on the need to be ensured. For a detailed discussion of this subject, see the article "Snorri Baldursson, " the former director of Land Protection, in the core of September 15, 2016, entitled Author of the School of Choices: Government Power for Privateism, " published by Jehovah's Witnesses. The conclusion of the authors is that Investigation and its connection to Geiradal, whether by direct route or by Nautilus to Isafjörður, will be responsible for only 51⁄210% of the reported electrical disturbances. This conclusion is based on a 2009 Landsnet report bearing the headline Improving security of electrical power on the West. The author also asks if there is anything working for the Vests by linking to the Whaleau to Geiradal for the Nautilus at Isafjörður. The conclusion of the authors with reference to a previously quoted report is that Investigation and its connection to Geiradal, whether by direct route or by the Nautilus of Isafjörg's deep, will be responsible for only 55.910% of the number of electrical disturbances reported. Impulse reactivation includes justified by increasing electrical security on the West. That claim seems impossible. What, then, is the purpose of offering up unscrupulous highlands on the Westside, valuable natural resources that we have been temporarily entrusted with and could prove to be a vast resource in our tourism?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u39	Madam President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson for this discussion. It is fitting that the first special discussion of this winter will turn toward the region. It is more urgent than ever that we have to build up the wood, on the whole country, but we also have the courage to set priorities. Desaturate priorities in areas that actually need extra security, e.g. increased electrical safety. I want to thank you, too, the highest. Minister for honest answers. I know that a minister has ambition to build up and do better, but I don't keep it, especially after listening to others. Senators of the Management Board, I feel that I detect a slight difference, even a discrepancy, in which way to handle this matter. It may not be surprising that in these last days, we are witnessing that members of the Parliament are struggling to run away from the government covenant. Even so, it is important that I believe that governments show the cards and speak clearly. I think a minister is working on it as best she can. It is reversed when the government is not united in this matter, and we need harmony to build up the wood. Build up the drop-down security and be able to talk about priorities in places such as Western, Akureyri, we're also talking about the Southnes. This is not going to work if we are going to continue to build a strong and varied job life, whether it is in tourism, innovation, etc., we have to do it. That is why we need politicians to give clear answers to those areas. I could also name the Forest, though in quite another context. It is absolutely unannounced that the matter has been here for as long as I do. And that's a very long time. This is completely unacceptable. We must create such a system, so that regardless of where they live, people in our country will have clear answers for their future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u40	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson for starting a special discussion on the importance of the national energy security. We had a long talk here. winters about these matters, we took a four - hour discussion of these matters in February or March, about a transport system that has exactly to do with the objects we discuss here. It is a joy to see what steps have been taken in these recent matters. First, a synopsis proposal was introduced that involved certain parts of electricity and cables and the second in 2015, and then in this year about the electrical transport system in 2018. There is a considerable scope in the coming years on the issues involved, and we see that in the North and Eastern countries, major projects are projected to be carried out completely in the following years with Holasarndus Line 3, Compatibility Line 3 and as for the Compatibility Line. There's a lot of work to do. Access to power in sufficient amounts with good delivery security is the basis for modern society. Lack of access to electricity has been badly affected by parts of the country, particularly in certain areas of the North, especially in the Eyjafjörður, Southnes and West. This position has inhibited job structure and made it difficult for citizens and businesses to work, to finance, and has inhibited their activities. In this context, the Eyjafjörður has spoken of a decade of lost tools. In the region, citizens and businesses have had limited supply security and quality of energy have not been satisfied with the related fluttering and indiscriminateness. Over the last two years, many diesel generators have been set up, and the cost has gone over 100 million, just to increase power security. The situation is completely unacceptable. Last winter Lota won an ehf. A report for the Eyjafjörður Development Society on how to best improve the situation of the Eyjafjörður. The conclusion of the report was that it would be best to build a backup station in Dalvík. The cost - saving program was 5,700,1,000 million, just to increase the energy security in the Eyjafjörður. It's a very short time that you get here to talk about something important. I just get to talk for two minutes this time about these matters. [[The president calls.]] But like the last winter, I encourage a world of Congress to take seriously this matter. This is one of the biggest cases.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u41	President. Nice senators. Of course, we are a small country and should enjoy our common resources. For me, as a resident of the West, electrical security is extremely important. We need to get our lines up west and we need this caller. Where the energy comes from, it's not necessarily the biggest case, we just need those lines. As for the interface point in the Icefjörg deep as we have just mentioned, it's not just a link to the Whale River, though the largest activation is the Whale River. There are other inducers, Eastern activations, and subconjugation, which are smaller inducers known to also be involved in this structure. Of course, we are still waiting for a decision to determine the location of this point. On September 1, 2016, the then minister, Ragnheiður Árnadóttir, announced that a decision was to be expected next week. This next week may not be here yet. If I recall correctly and maybe a minister corrects me, it's in a system plan that this is a job being done, it's not yet a decision. She'll correct me if I'm not right, it's mine. This point of communication is extremely important. I don't agree with it at all. A senator who spoke earlier about his not being important, he does. It provides a tremendous opportunity for a Western career to have a ringline and this point. It is the absolute premise of modern society that electricity transport systems work. In fact, having access to electricity is a fundamental human right. If we can't move the energy between areas, the reality is that we can be forced to select an adverse power option, an adverse power option, simply because the transport system does not function as it should. Of course, the situation in which we are in is terrible, fighting for green emphasis with one hand, and forcing humans to produce electricity through oil cans with the other hand, as we do. ... ontheWestlands.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u42	V.E.G. President. I urge the delegates and people on the subject not to mix the layer of high-voltage lines and the full energy security. We have to talk about high-level tension lines and take into account reporters like Landsnet. When the synopsis was made last winter, it was not always the case. Of course, if possible, we should put electricity on the ground. We also have to secure three phases of electricity, most of which are available. Not being able to access three - phase electricity can prevent normal structure and innovation in rural areas. With more intensive energy distribution, environmental employment, high value production across the country can be a contributing factor and a reduction in oil combustion. Backup stations would be unnecessary. Does Minister know the difference between a phase and a three-phase electricity? Energy efficiency is improved by three phases of electricity, and three phase motors use electricity better. Buyers are less and less expensive. Three phases of electricity, in effect, are environmentally friendly. The media wants the state to place a policy for land activation. The profit of the energy resource must be considered in the context of the value of industry. It does not necessarily mean that the high yield of the energy resource alone sees the maximum national benefit. Because I have a few seconds, I'd also like to agree with that as a matter of course. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir said earlier about what you find going on within the governments, it doesn't seem like there's a completely synchronized voice in these cases. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u43	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, spoke of her for a long time at the council, and her speech was well heard. It is good to stir things up and to try to fire a match if convenient and comfortable to hear it from new members of the council as well. A senator who spoke here before me. I think this case is too important for us to take it down to that level and to remind again of the good solidarity that was achieved. Business committee where both of them are. Councilmen sit and shared in that work. There was a complete agreement on the emphasis to be put in motion on the construction of the electrical transport system, and it was a pleasure to be involved in the cooperation of the cohesion. Councilmen who spoke before me and others who then signed the committee's opinion, since the opinion of the committee was only one. We all agreed on this. It's a pleasure that we can get together on how to build up the transport system and how to deal with the big problems that are certainly in many parts of the system and especially in the areas that are here in inquiry. ... abominator. There are planned major projects during the election season, depending on how well things work out. It's like something's wrong. A senator came in here, and now, often, the lines have been drawn. If things are going well, they could be about 30 billion, but these are very large projects, just for example. Clip line 3 and Holeasandline 3 is 14 billion. conducted. These are the big numbers that are underneath. At the end, I'd like to, sir, a respectable president, to be asked specifically at diesel generators, to enter into the importance of our supply of energy, which I think is very necessary to do, which gives us a special job to go out into clean and environmental energy where it is possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u44	Madam President. Of course, we need to start by securing energy supply security now, which involves fixing connections in the Eyjafjörður. I don't understand why they can't just take a similar ride and put together the lines they already have. We need to fix the Smokeynes, same story there. Also, these gaps need to be stopped that Whirlwind is some kind of precipitating mechanism or energy security on the West. Rounding is the key to cyclication of the West, that is what will create the energy security. Insecting can really be something else, yes. [[Set up an extra point.]] Then we need to talk about the future. There's a lot of work to do. An electric car pump has been through a lot. The bus's already electricalized. The network of public transportation needs to be improved so that people have a different potential than going through one session in 2.5 tons of trucks. Also, there is a need to focus on improving and increasing domestic production on valuation because not all options are based on the ability to have batteries. Then I'm thinking of a ship and something like that. We need to make better use of wind power. We need to use tide energy. We also need to consider the storage methods for remaining energy and the extra production capacity for future use. Industrial efficiency requirements need to be reviewed, efficiency requirements for ships in the fishing field or emphasis on electricalization or estimating the fish fleet as appropriate. There are some complex factors in which batteries are often extremely sensitive to water. You might also think of this as a newest opportunity. To minimize the need for fossil fuels and to think largely, it would be interesting to find support for a variety of technological developments. [[The president calls.]] It would be nice to see some kind of powerful pioneers produce even electrical planes or electric vessels in this country, even selling from the country. We can do all these things, but we need to board up our sleeves.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u45	A respectable president. The government has an ambitious climate action programme, and one of the major projects in this process is reducing greenhouse gases through transport exchange with special emphasis on electricalization in road transport. The climate Action Programme is, by permission of the President: However, the cost of transport use is likely to be increased by investments and infrastructures, with an estimated 1.5 billion dollars. in the next five years to build infrastructure for electrical vehicles, electricalisations reject, and other necessary action in national energy exchanges. The premise for this is national electrical security and energy. It is important that the infrastructure will be built up all over the country to increase incentives that trust in and ensure that it succeeds. It is rather conflicting with ambitious policy when it is referred to as building on reserve stations on the West and, for example, the West. in the Eyjafjörður affected by diesel. Are you going to connect ships to oil-derived electricity or to load cars with electrical charge from diesel plants? We must do better in this regard. A respectable president. It is clear that not all citizens sit at the same level when it comes to secure electricity. It really needs to be put in the priority of a secure transport network to these places. First of all, the electricity produced in the country must be utilized, and this will be done especially by a safe transport network, and on the West, the desired activations will have to be used in the quarter. This means that the connection points and the transport network are relevant. But now there is work on energy policy for the country. It is obvious that the government's Action Programme on Climates must deal with energy policy so that if it meets these policies, it is a way of improving national energy security.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u46	Madam President. I'd like to thank the advert, please. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson's son, Hannah, for speaking on this important matter. When I was growing up, even if my electricity was off, it didn't come to mind. It often happened around Christmas, and on Christmas Eve, you thought about when the electricity would go off. How far will we get with the steak before it hits? Then it passed and heard the story until I moved to the Western island in 1998, and then this reality came back. Even the power out of the electricity did not mean anything to be taken care of. It was a natural part of life that it subtly crafted itself from time to time. As a result, the length of the household equipment became extremely poor in this land. I think I've spent the 16 years on at least one trip, even two, with all the appliances I had to replace. Of course, this is a very important matter. I want to talk about a special hobby, i.e. looking to all eight and pointing, e.g. on the wind power, which is a ruined resource on the land, and the current energy, which is also it, prompting the highest. Minister to create a law frame for this energy efficiency which I'm sure will increase in the future. I want to use my time just before I finish to point out the importance of a three-phase power out into the countryside. It is not acceptable for users of electricity who want to enter some slightly larger production than traditional farming to have no access to three-phase electricity, except for large amounts. Of course, a policy must be set so that all the people of the country can enjoy it and do some trade. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u47	Madam President. I'm going to thank you very much, both of you. A minister for her input into the conversation and the numerous members of the council who have put their words in their mouths. It was very interesting to see how close humans are to having this unacceptable situation and to find solutions. There's a lot of ideas here, and there's a certain tone in them, but they have a bit of a common interest, and people may be a little bit talking about the future, but I think we can afford it when we're dealing with this case, which is the electronic security of the Western world and the Eyjafjörður. It's simply about equalizing people's opportunities to build up lives and jobs in these places, and we don't live up to their names as a society that intends to have equal living conditions throughout the country if this is not okay. It's modern. This is not something that we break into the future, although I completely realized that it is very important that people think for a long time, too. There may be two main currents in the discussion, one of the currents that has been in the discussion here, and then it's the whale process that has to do with this indistinguishable. I have to say, as long as it's not undisputed, that Investing alone guarantees electrical security on the West and at the same time does not cause undeveloped damage to nature, we have to step back to the ground. This does not mean, however, that we are free from charge or governments in these matters until some other way, progressive. I'd kind of like to finish my discussion here with the highest order. Minister of the highest. At the same time, a minister said that there were legal processes in connection with a frame plan and such, but at the same time, we find that almost all the electrical lines that the Landsnet has intended to build in the main transport system have met up with opposition and have gone to the delay. It's the reality we live in. I know, Minister, that this is a big project, I completely figure it out, but I just want to make the most of it. A minister to consider the matter from both the short-term and long-term concerns, i.e. To find ways to reconcile with the minister and the body of Congress to solve this urgent problem in all the country's affairs and at the same time to continue working on it, as I know to the highest degree. A minister is doing with the government, painting up the big picture; how can we guarantee that we will be the best in the world when it comes to environmental electricity for the nation? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u48	Madam President. Thank you so much for this discussion. I don't know if I heard you right. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson asked if he was at the top. Minister knew the difference between monophasic and triphasic electricity. If that was the question, yes, of course, I know the difference between a phase and a three-phase electricity, because I've been a minister for less than two years and I've been working with a few hats at a council for half a decade. First regarding the Community covenant as a dog. A member of the previous talk may be what I feel is left behind, and I hope that we are somehow somewhat agreed on, and I think that more and more people will agree in word, that we cannot talk about real freedom to live while the ground is so different about the country that it is simply not the same opportunity. People get a good idea, they're gonna start a business, and they call for some infrastructure that we all say they should have, but if there are areas that don't have them, it's more difficult for them to take root there, at the same time as we say we want everybody to have real freedom to live. Of course, this subject was specifically discussed with Eyjafjörður, and the situation on the West is unacceptable. That is how it is, and that, of course, is why we are doing this work. You're right. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson comes in, this is a big project, and I agree that it's time to look, but also shorter. We can't just market a long - term vision because the situation is now and people live there right now. This is often the case, but somehow we need to try to balance it. I feel that the discussion has changed for a year and a half. With regard to the government covenant, no one is running away. He is clear in his trust in the transport systems of electricity, and I'm glad that everyone signed that government contract and that we work on it. For the connection point, it's not the Minister's decision. With regard to the three-phase electricity, I agree, it's important, and that's why I put a group in charge of the previous year. þm. Haraldur's son Benedict to try to figure out if we can somehow jump this program or do it in some other way because it is not acceptable to tell people that they will have power tripled in 2034 or 2036. [[The president calls.]] Dr. Raikks' plans now say it costs 10 billion. Because there is a lot of money, we need not be afraid to look at it differently.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u49	Madam President. I recommend an assembly that, in my opinion, would put Iceland on a worthy ledge when it comes to the rights of the disabled. By legally binding on the UN Convention on the Rights of Disappointment, Iceland will become one of the few countries in the world that have done this, if not the only one. The Convention of the United Nations is designed to hide the government's legalization of the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people. The bill that includes the legalisation of the contract and the adaptation of Icelandic law to be submitted to the General with the objective that the contract be legally established on December 13, 2019. In 2007, Iceland signed this first major U.S. Convention on Human Rights, so to speak, made in this century. Iceland validated the 2016 contract. By the declaration of Iceland's debt to ensure the plagiarism of rights recommended by the contract, but the commitment is only under national rights. However, in the United States it is necessary to legalize international agreements if they are to have a direct influence on national rights. Hence, it is important to discern the difference between legalization and validation. According to the Icelandic court order, the contract cannot be applied directly to Icelandic courts, as can be done by public law, unless the contract has been legally established. If the contract has been validated, as it has been done, but there is a conflict between one of the terms of the agreement and one of the terms of the agreement. Iceland adhered to a so - called biphysic theory. International treaties must be established here if they are to have values, such as law, or law. Of course, human rights contracts and treaties that Iceland has fully established affect how we interpret law, etc. Transporters of this proposal, coming from all categories here at the council, have felt that it is necessary to walk further and that we directly legalize the contract. We've only done this a few times, we have a legalized child contract by the United Nations, we have a legalized European Convention on Human Rights, and we have established the EEA Convention. Of course, we are in a number of other human rights treaties and international agreements, but in our view, it is necessary to go beyond and directly legalize this agreement. Madam President. Here, I will only take a closer look at the matter of the Senate. On December 13, 2006, the General Assembly of the United Nations adopted a resolution on the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People. In other words, the contract is an international agreement that includes the duties of Member States to ensure the right of the human rights of disabled people. In fact, disabled people are the largest minority in the world, and they have been estimated to have some 6,50,800 million people with disability. Of course, people are a very diverse and diverse group of people. It is important to keep this in mind when working on the rights of disabled people. Then, under the United Nations Convention, it is very important and of course obliged to ensure a very broad and effective approach to disabled people and organizations that work on their rights and interests. This must be absolutely assured in word and level. The aim of the contract is to promote, defend and ensure full human rights and fundamental freedoms for all disabled people as well as to promote and work in respect for their natural dignity. The most important message of the agreement is that disabled persons have the full right to all approved human rights as well as that they should have the privilege of enjoying their own life and the freedom of the individual. To that end, special emphasis on the opportunity of disabled persons to participate in all areas of life and community and spears is directed to customs and customs, standards of image, prejudice, harmful actions, isolation, and outcasts associated with disabled people. That's a long way to count. In our opinion, this contract is a very powerful tool for fighting the human rights of disabled people. However, the most important project remains and must continue to ensure all the disabled persons in action all the rights recommended in the contract. Then again and again I reiterate that it is mandatory and important to ensure cooperation and consultation with disabled people and their rights and interests, with their personal spokesmen, specialists in the litigation group, etc. so that specific and appropriate adjustments and measures can be made in all policies and planning, implementation and implementation. At the beginning of my case, I was only able to say that the validation is not sufficient. Of course, it's a pleasure to have Iceland validate the contract, but the contract isn't enough. Now I'll take a little closer to that. The Icelandic government signed the contract without notice on March 30, 2007, over 11 years ago, along with a selective Annex to him. Nine years later, on September 20, 2016, about two years ago, the contract was finally validated for Iceland, in line with General No. 61/145, but implementation of the European Convention for Human Rights has included: ... wehavea 21 st. The Constitution must be agreed by the General for this. The validation of a contract, as I mentioned earlier, is a very important step in ensuring disabled people's rights and opportunities that most unsuited people feel themselves. By validation of the contract, the Icelandic government commits itself to ensure the disabled all the minimum rights recommended by the contract, as well as to make changes in Icelandic legislation, regulations, management and services needed to ensure that the terms of the contract will be met. While the European government is committed to ensuring the rights for which the contract commands them, the commitment - I reiterate it - only in accordance with national rights. Because of the diphysic system proposed for the legal interpretation in Iceland and the United Kingdom, Australia, and other northern countries, international contracts must be established if they are to have a direct impact on the land. Thus, according to the Icelandic court order, the agreement could not be directly applied to Icelandic courts, as it can be done by public law, unless it has been legalized. I reiterate that, of course, courts are taking into account international agreements and, above all, human rights contracts with their interpretation of solutions. However, according to the Icelandic Constitution, the national rights contract will not be allowed to legalize unless the legislature authorities take special action in addition to validation, i.e. grants the contract a legal value, and that's what we propose here, that the contract gets legal. If only a contract was validated, the Icelandic law would conflict with it, according to the terms of the agreement. However, the result of direct violation of law and commitment under a multinational agreement may be that the Icelandic government has violated the national rights to which the contract began. The United States can then find conflicting and tips from international organisations recommended in such agreements to monitor how Member States meet them. Madam President. A professor of law at Harvard University, Kári Ragnarsson, recently stated in the United States, a school of law students at the University of Iceland, that the latest courts indicated that the Court was extremely reluctant to discuss social rights and that their position before the Icelandic courts was ill and their protection had deteriorated in all the last years. In 1st. 76. g. The Constitution says that all those in need should be legally guaranteed to assist because of sickness, disability, old age, unemployment, scarcity, and similar incidents. In an article in Kári Hólmar, the Supreme Court says that only once did a case agree on the basis of this constitution, which was held in the so - called micro-aggression Act in the year 2000. Then the court came to the conclusion that a law from the Council, which included loss of disability by earning a mate, was in conflict with the regulations of the Constitution. The Kári said that following the court's sentence, it was a powerful word that the interpretation of courts on social rights could result in dramatic changes in the constitution. That prophecy, however, did not come true. Madam President. Despite the positive effects of the validation of the contract, this proposal has been considered necessary by the officials, as I had noted earlier, to go further. Therefore, we are here to conclude that the legalization of the treaty will be no later than December 13, 2019, which will be 13 years after its approval at the United Nations. Along with the legalisation, the Icelandic legislation should be adjusted to the terms of the contract as well. Some members of Parliament have promoted the importance of the contract as well as the adaptation of Icelandic legislation to the agreement. Last one went anyway. paritaprevir Þríldur Sunna Ævarsdóttir presents a synod proposal to commit the President of the Generals to appoint a special committee of members of the Parliament who would be responsible for an overall review of legal law and that, in addition to a total review of the law, the United Nations Convention on the rights of the disabled people would be considered specifically by this agreement, the United Nations Convention on Human Rights. It is important that the matter be fulfilled in the matter of Congress. It should also be noted that a plagiarization proposal was submitted in 2016 under the leadership of Kristján L. Möller, who were members of many political parties. A board of well-beings, led by Ingibjörg Ingadóttir's daughter, the president and co-star Páll Valur Björnsson's son, took care of the case in a report on the General Assembly. Finally, it should be noted that the Minister of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has put in place a policy and a strategy in the lives of disabled people prior to 2017/2021. That's where we even came from. to better introduce the agreement on the rights of disabled persons, along with numerous measures for the benefit of the disabled. According to this strategy, the United Nations Convention on Human Rights in All Laws and Action - I draw attention to it - the self-reflect which, as I have mentioned, is of great importance in the application of the Convention Act. So we are very hoping that there will be a parapolitic convergence to take the step involved in the synopsis. The United Nations Convention on Child Rights, the Children's Covenant, was precisely legalized in 2013, but the first member of this motion, the one present, proposed a judicial arrangement to legalize the children's covenant and was approved at the General Assembly in 2009. Was this my last session before I left the council at that time. Special attention should be given to those in the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people, such as 33. The deal. While it is noted that the bill for an independent human rights institution has been published on the Ministry of Justice, such human rights agencies need to meet requirements for such institutions in so - called Paris targets adopted at the General Assembly of the United Nations in 1993. We emphasize the importance of setting up here such an independent human rights agency that includes more groups than people who are disabled but who have the responsibility to promote and protect human rights in this country under the constitution, law, international contracts, and other international commitments. Then I would particularly like to stress that the so-called Syllabon Annex to the Convention will also be validated here on the country, which discusses a lawsuit to a monitoring committee for individuals and groups that have fully developed routes within the country. Already, 92 countries have validated this selection Annex than in September 2016, for about one year. In fact, two years later, the General Assembly concluded that the addition to the contract would also be validated by the end of 2017. However, this has not been done, so we need to take that step in my view. It has been especially noted that translation of this agreement has been inaccurate, and we call it in the paper of this synonym that we need to correct it. Of course, a translation of such a international agreement must be made in order to improve the resources that can be taken into account. The medical committee of the time, which discussed the validation, specifically pointed out the need to be done. Also, there were some comments when the contract was validated, which I strongly desired. A Senate Committee that considers the matter. Finally, I make a great deal of effort to legalize the agreement and adapt Icelandic legislation to the agreement in good and effective collaboration with disabled people, their interest groups, rural society and the educational community. How important it is that this work is done in good cooperation with that group! The traders of this council arrangement are Ólafur Ölfur Ágústsson, Elíasdóttir Frifjölfjörður Elisdjörðurfjörðurfjörðurfjörn, Árnadóttir Kolbjörn, Álgung K. Sigrnjörnótir, Björn, Leví, Steindór og Jón, Helga Vala Logi, Inga Gónandi, Jonlírdur Valrður Valnarðarsson, Logimsson, Nanðsson Njörður Sigursson, Rósa Björk, Sara, Elísa, Góðurður Kjörurðurðurðurðurður Kjörurðurðurðurðurjörurjörurjörurjörurjörurjörurjörjörjörjörjörjörur Sunna. Finally, I suggest that this case be referred to. The welfare committee following a discussion here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u50	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for his history in this matter. I believe the United Nations Convention on Human Rights is one of the most important human rights covenants we have seen in recent years. He is a very important person, not just for disabled people, but for society. He'll make society better for everyone in my opinion, i.e. if followed. However, on the basis of the fact that the contract was first adopted by the Council, and then while they were working on it and demanding its introduction, I conducted several meetings that discussed which way to go, validate, or legalize it. There were evidences, in fact, for both ways. Some said that this was to be done by law, it was best to do so right away, while others thought that the law should be adjusted according to the agreement. I think the committee needs to get back to its experts and be very careful with that because I really think they're both. I am, I would say, a rather positive way of making a check. I'd like to state that I strongly support the approval of any votes that will also be validated, as has already been agreed on to be done at the General Assembly. I'd like to ask you what. Because there are four different translations in the translation, a member of the Parliament is concerned whether it is important to get started so that we at least have the text that should be legalized if we decide to follow that path. [[The president calls.]] I ask if the Senator agrees with me that we must have the educational community with us in order for the wording to be bulletproof, whether it will remain in the introduction or in the legal condition.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u51	Madam President. Thank you. A senator very much for his input here. I sense her words, so she supports this matter and is not surprising in itself. I still have strong hopes that we will take this step here would form a parapolitic stand. Of the translations--yes, of course, I agree. We need to get the hell out of this right now. This was pointed out for at least Two years off the welfare committee of that time. It was said in the reviews of the committee at the time that the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people in the Icelandic language was highly maligned and thus unacceptable. The Committee at that time required the Ministry to review the translation. Then I might throw the ball to the Ministry of Health, "Why hasn't the translation been legalized? " Then I'll just do it here from this speech chair. Of course, this translation needs to be acceptable. I can't imagine it taking a long time, but of course this needs to be okay, especially if we're going to make this a law, don't talk about it. That challenge is indeed expressed. I think that's a good point too, that's why. A senator here says that this is not just a positive step for the disabled. This is a positive step for society. This is a firm witness to how we want to be part of our community. The last time I checked, there were 19,000 cripples in this country and disability there's something that everyone can get into, whether they are born in that situation or have an accident or whatever the cause is. I just want to see Iceland in the front grade in this regard. By this step, we would be the first country in the world to legalize this deal as I know it. I checked it out by the General. I want it just as we decided to legalize the baby contract. When I presented it at my time, I received a number of systematic arguments: No, we are not supposed to legalize international contracts. No, the other North countries haven't been able to do this, and then we can't do this. Yeah, I guess we can just do this. We can make a political decision that this is a step, that a contract about disabled people's rights is legalized. [[The president calls.]] I would like to make it very clear to the board not to let the system logic work and say it's too complicated or out of order in other countries. Let us take the step to the full and give priority to the rights of the disabled in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u52	Madam President. I agree with what. A senator says that we should not let system calls determine the path we take in these situations, but he would also like to state that I am not well enough in the deeper legal aspects, which are appropriate. In fact, in order to give a complete impression of myself as the right way to go, a senator did a fine job in his talk. I think it's very important that a Senate committee review the evidence in return. As cited earlier, the matter of child - care was legalized, and I'm sure it's a matter of looking to it in terms of its survival and especially considering the reasons why it was being done and knowing if it really means it. It can just be that it means something. Only back to the translation. When the deal was validated, it went through the highest. Secretary of State and Foreign Affairs. From there was actually the text printed as an accompanying document with the Senate resolution proposal, unless it is a welfare committee with much greater and deeper expertise in the case. I think it was at the translation center that made certain changes from the text that had been prepared previously in a series of consultations between students, disabled people, and the government, so here I think some conversation needs to be made. Then I also rolled up to see what. A senator referred the case to the question. A welfare committee - I have to admit that here is someone who does not know: Is it the committee to receive this case, or should this be at the highest level? Minister of Justice? I think this may just need instructions on who's the right way through the controversies of the council to find the committee to win the case. [[The president calls.]] I'm just looking forward to that job starting.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u53	Madam President. First of all, I received advice from the council, from General's specialist, that I should be measured to make this an opportunity for the welfare committee. I was wondering if this was going to the General and Education Committee. I remember when the question of the legalization of the children's covenant, it went to the full - scale committee of that time. I counseled that the matter should be addressed to the welfare committee. The main problems facing the rights of the disabled are under the committee, but to me it is not a matter of exactly what the above mentioned matters will be. I received this advice from a senator. The key point is that the matter is being handled well, of course. I am optimistic about our ability to do so. I agree with you about the translation. Let's let the State Department handle their EEA translations. Of doing, the expert's at the Ministry of Health - so, yes, I would call it the Department of Health or the Ministry of Health or the Department's Experts involved in the translation of this contract. I was just surprised that the translation had not been corrected in view of the comment coming from a welfare committee when it was two years old. Perhaps some work is started in this regard. I've been burning on them so many times in this room. You can often hear the system calls that you cannot take some steps. I've been hearing this for three years, I think I've suggested three years in a row that here the United Nations Children's Club should be legalized. I always got that system call on my head. I also struggled for many years to see that sexual abuse against children would be irreprehensible. Then I always had this system call in my head: No, this isn't the norm. This is not customary in Denmark, and we cannot be different from Denmark, etc. So I did this political will, and Iceland became the first country in the world that made serious sexual offenses against children illegal. Here in this room, we can make criminal decisions, here in this room, we can make political decisions that are subject to increasing human rights and that's what I'm calling after my colleagues in this room do, that we just make this political decision to legalize this key agreement that is responsible for the rights of disabled people in our community.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u54	Madam President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur Ágústsson, the first member of this council's eulogy proposal, is very much for an excellent debate. You can agree with every word you say. A senator said. I'm gonna stick around for the last thing, about the system. We have already been speaking through the council, but we also have children who have all kinds of needs and who live all kinds of lives. It's amazing how hard we sometimes feel about building up systems that have built - in obstacles, automatic barriers that we don't really want, or telephone grounds inside our systems. You can have a very different field, e.g. what we discussed earlier on the provisional security of electrical energy and other issues, the building of roads. It's like the system's blocking the progress of good things. We have repeatedly shown that we can go any other way, us Icelanders, if we dare to say: No, certainly other nations have not gone this exact way, but we are going to do it because we think it is right. We feel that it is in the interests of those involved, and in this case we are talking about the causes of the disabled. Not all sufferers, whether in the family or in the interests of the interests of which they can consult, are always spontaneous because there are very different kinds of handicapped ones. More often than not, they rely on the environment in such a way that we put our arms around them and agree if they need help. It's good to go. A senator, first of all, went over the signing of his time, 2007, then the validation was to remind me of 2016, and now the legislation. It was an incredibly important step that we took to validate the agreement, but we do not want to be faced with any issues in the community that are closely related to this particular group that need our assistance so that it will be brought to the point of saying: No, unfortunately, the contract has not been legally established. The Congress hasn't finished it yet. We must not be left with the fact that we have not handled the matter the whole way. I'm particularly glad to see people from all categories here at council in particular. We are to use that solidarity and clear will from all categories in order to set this issue straight. It doesn't have to take so much time, we all know this case, it's been under discussion before, so I hope we can have settled the matter from the committee to the council before Christmas. Of course, we'll use it as one of the couriers of this case. As soon as this is an enormously important case, as I mentioned earlier, and it may well be that it will cause the right of the disabled to become even richer and more loyal than he is today, we are tempted to point out also that we must continue to think about what can be done better. I watch many senators who are great fighters for the poor, disabled people, and many more groups in the community. We're supposed to keep encouraging ourselves together on a positive note. Of course, you can criticize the government, you can criticize governments at every hour, but I would like to insist that in every government that has ruled here over the past few years, there has always been a rich will to do a little better. It has been necessary to make painful decisions about setting priorities, including priorities. Money, and not all humans feel that there is more work to be done. When it comes to disabled persons, there is never enough work to do. It's just that we have to have the guts to say it. Of course, having a disabled child today is much better than it was ten years ago, let alone 30 years ago when a person like me, who is very old, gets through a school system so that we never meet disabled children. They were just in a special school. We were not allowed to learn about the variety, the quality of life that comes from getting to know people with different attitudes and opinions, different needs, and different opportunities in life. That's why it's even possible. It is important that we keep in mind the fact that we have such a clear record. in the synopsis with the synopsis proposal to ensure that the disabled will always match the status of others. That is exactly what this agreement by the United Nations, the treaties agreement, needs to ensure that the disabled are equal to others. This situation is not self - satisfied, it was very different as I could about 10, 20 years ago, let alone 30 or 40 years ago. We must continue to do better, and I would like to encourage all of us in this room to use our strength, this solidarity in behalf of those we love, and would like to do more. Of course, it is incredibly tempting to mention further study or employment because such a matter has just come up, and people with high school graduates get into life. There are only a small number of people who have been able to enter the diplomat study up in Iceland's University, which was established in its time. And what can be done? The most dangerous thing we do is if we just say: Well, now that it's over, and then it really depends on the approval of individuals who are going to follow high school and after high school. We also need to promote increased awareness, including in the business world, but it would be good if, for example, you'd like. The government and the Ministry took the initiative -- I have experience with it, I tried to open up the Ministry, both to the day of work, to study in training - and to get people in, at least for a temporary job, there could be a temporary expansion of the state in order to get people to themselves temporarily for a year, two or three years with different skills. It is possible with a particular organization within the board of directors. I think it would also improve the management and the work environment. But this is part of what we need to think about, and I'm glad that it's the best. Secretary of education is about to start a job that's going through this. I hope that this work takes a short time, for this group, these 18 - year - olds, 20 years of age, and older, needs answers. The answer is not to stay at home and merely to play video games. The answer is that everyone should have an opportunity to participate in Icelandic society on their own terms. That's the kind of community I think we all agree to build up. I want to thank you again. 1st transporter for this case. This reminds us of what we can do in here. This reminds us of the courage to make political decisions no matter what other nations are doing. We're supposed to go further, take this extra mile more than others if we need it to balance the status of the disabled in the community. To say that I encourage those on the committee to settle it quickly and in solidarity, since the situation exists.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u55	A respectable president. Here we will discuss a proposal for a resolution on the United Nations legalization of the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people. First, I'd like to thank you very much for your initiative. I know that the most important message of the agreement is that disabled persons are entitled to a full right now if we accept this, on acceptable human rights as much as anyone, and that they should enjoy their own lives and the freedom of the individual like everyone else. In order to accomplish this, the contract puts special emphasis on the opportunity of disabled people. It is a vital factor in every aspect of human life and community and spears directly toward customs, customs, standard image, prejudice, harmful activity, the isolation of the last speaker, and the elimination often associated with disabled people. If we only agree, Congress resolutions were submitted to the 2016 contract and it was approved. By doing so, the government was obliged to ensure the disabled people's rights, which the contract represents, of course, only according to national rights, as the first transporter was introduced here earlier. Thus, according to the Icelandic court order, the contract could not be directly applied to Icelandic courts as it can be done by law unless it has been legalized. That's why we're standing here today with this synopsis proposal, and it's very important. What I also consider important is the social vision that becomes clear in the contract. In other words, this deal is about individual rights. It should not be a problem to validate it, as we would like to expect that all of us will establish a well - being society where everyone and all of us will be expected. We received mail this morning from the National Institute of Development and, by permission of the President, I intend to read a small nothing but a vital note in it: Since the contract is legalized, the human rights of disabled persons will be given increased protection, and justice will increase. A determined individual can then carry the terms of the contract as an unambiguous court order for judgment or government. Legalization will arouse the public as well as the people dealing with the cases of disabled persons in the courts, in the administrations and in preparation for legislation, to further awareness of the human rights of disabled persons, and to the dignity that will be expected to be shown to them in the legal state. The legalization of the contract of disabled persons will also increase, internationally, trust in the respect of the Icelandic State for human rights. I'm not going to do this any further, but I appreciate this fine discussion, and I'd like to thank the first merchant very much for this council-sense proposal, and I hope she gets a gangup.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u56	A respectable president. I am proud to stand here today to share in the discussion of this priceless agreement by the United Nations on the rights of disabled people. I would especially like to thank the prosecutor and the candidate, Ágúst Ágústsson. In fact, we can say that there is an ocean between having the United Nations Treaty for the rights of disabled people and taking the big step we are asking for today to legalize the contract. We recall in 1950 when we validated the European Convention that it was considered enough to do so and that it might now have no reason to believe that Iceland would not follow it clearly and clearly. But what happened during the day? The human rights deal was then legalized in 1993, and this changed the entire legal status of the Icelanders compared to what had been only validated by the Convention of Human Rights. I'm a natural disabled, permanent law-blind 75% invalid. My life, as an example, would have been a bit different, but I would have prospered if I had a legal agreement by the United Nations on the rights of disabled people when I was going into life, in the manner of turning to study, access, and needs, for example. as a child and as a teenager, there is probably a sea between them. The fine speakers who have spoken before have taken a deep look at the agreement, the goals and everything he has to offer, but I would like to tell more about how things have been progressively going in the direction of meeting disabled people, even though we are just starting the journey. I looked, for example. I tried to go to school, go to college, go to college. But there was no way. There was no legal agreement by the United Nations on the rights of disabled people. Actually, the resources were limited because they were not obliged to have any resources. It was a good thing, but no money, nothing to support it. We've seen in the school system, the education system, especially at the high and university levels, how the hard disabled people have had to disappear because they weren't equipped with the foundation they needed to learn. But we see that evolution has all been this way. You don't really want to believe that the reason the deal hasn't been legal is probably money. It costs to create a bioavailability for disabled people. It takes to extend the help we need when we are not fully able to handle 100% of a healthy person. But what does this cost in the big context? Has the dollar been saved and thrown? There's men in disabled people. We're manned. What the legalization of this contract on the rights of disabled persons is actually allowing us to be more able to share fully in the community and to use what we received in the cradle. As I have often said, even being a prisoner of your own body and being disabled and feeling a lack of power is enough, even though society is not pushing it even better into our heads that this is not the case and unfortunately it will not be changed. But now we stand here and we can change this, we want to change. There is a parapolitic agreement about this. How amazing it was when things happened! In the beginning, a member of the council read his talk to all those who are associated with them on this resolution. It was a cause for joy, and in fact, I had a similar feeling, a respectable president, and when we were entering and legalizing the NAPA service, invaluable user-controlled personal assistance for severely disabled people. In fact, it can do much better than it has already been done, but I'm not going to go into it. On the other hand, I say: What we're looking at now by establishing this UN Convention on the disabled is trying hard to make disabled persons at least a part of society on their own terms as they possibly can. As those here, we have an unreserved obligation to bring out all that is best and to put forth effort to meet the needs of those less fortunate. If we get married that these laws become reality, which I really hope, we will reap extraordinary changes in society and gain increased human beings who have been hidden somewhere and we have not even imagined that there exists, whether it is a lie to music, science, technology, law, anything. People who are hungry can do all things if they have only a basis for doing them. That's what I'm talking about in general.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u57	President. I wanted to come up here to celebrate the progress of this matter and get first in the winter. In Iceland, for the past few years, hard work has been done to ensure the rights of disabled persons, but much work has been done there. In the past, we took a big step in setting up new laws on the rights of disabled persons with long - term support needs, as well as partial review of local social services laws and contracts for disabled persons' rights. The overall legalization of the contract would be a step that would considerably better ensure the rights of those to whom they are to protect. There is a big difference between the signing of contracts and the acceptance of certain commitments, as well as the legality of the contract, thus directly affecting citizens. It is a step that we have taken along with important human rights contracts that are available in Iceland and, for example, the European Convention and the United Nations Children's Convention. I see no reason why the United Nations Convention on Human Rights is not also legalized here on land. I would like to thank the United States of America for bringing in this matter and declaring a firm support for the progress of the situation, and I hope that the committees of the council will have a quick and effective treatment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u58	A respectable president. We here discuss a proposal to conclude that the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people whose mind I support is that we should take the lead in this matter. Iceland can be at the tip of so many things we've been doing. I'm just gonna come in for a minute. I was here when we were legalizing the baby contract. But because I've been downstairs in a councilroom listening to the discussion, I'd like to mention that I was given information that I didn't feel compatible with it at any given moment. An executive told me earlier. I understand that the legal office is not in custody of the Ministry of Health where their human rights agreements and responsibilities are heard by the Minister of Justice as well as by this agreement. However, there is a operating board at the Council of Human Rights. It contains the pros and cons of validating, including the pros and cons of validating. Selective accounting with this contract, along with two other contracts. I think it might be wise to direct it to the Minister of Justice in this discussion, from this issue, and from what it will do in the process to the Committee, that the Control team will consider this also, so that there is no need to wait for the committee to complete the procedure with this case. We know that it may take a considerable amount of time as it used to, even if it is agreed upon by members of the Parliament. There is a representative of all councils in this control group, for the global rights of every government have to do with it in some way as we know it. This contract was validated in September 2016. We haven't completely introduced him yet. At one time, when we legalized the children's covenant, the laws that were not in harmony with the children's covenant were reviewed before it was legalized. This agreement is a natural huge deal, and it may be wise for him to be challenged by possible changes in his mind that might be considered necessary before we legalize it. Aside from how the case goes into the committee, we should, and I might do it here, challenge the Council's company to take it and start working on it right now because I think it's very important that we can do this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u59	Madam President. I'm just going to come here at the end of the discussion and thank you very much for the preparedness of this subject. I'd like to draw special attention to some members of the Parliament. Hv. paritaprevir Sæland Goland rightly points out the manned person who lives in a community of disabled people. He needs to be taken into consideration, and he is enormous. Likewise, I'd like to agree with that lawsuit. paritaprevir Of course, Inga Sæland Land matters that this group that others need have the opportunity to live a decent life. Then I would also like to agree with a word. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, pointed out that, of course, there have been improvements in the rights of the disabled, but better if possible. In particular, it shows that there is a need for a flexible supply of work for disabled persons and for increasing study opportunities, especially for those who choose to go that way to higher education. I particularly welcome the support of the head of the welfare committee, Halldóra Mogensen, who agrees that the matter needs to be done quickly and effectively. Likewise, I thank you for word. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún of the Year's Árnadóttir, who is one of the supporters of this case. Just in the end. I can totally figure out what you're doing. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir is talking about and I'm not pointing those words to her, I believe she's supporting this case, and most if not all members of the council left green, but let's be careful just because you can see that we're already a bit numbed. We don't quite know what committee this is going to be on, I suggest this goes on to the welfare committee. Let's just make that decision. It can be disputed. This suggests that the matter should be addressed to a special control group outside the council. Of course I'm not going to interfere with what management groups are looking at, and of course I'm not going to direct to which groups of the World Health Committee are looking, but for God's sake, let's not kill the case on a plane, put it in another committee, or attach it to some control group. I'm not trying to downplay the kind of work that's in the operating group, but I know the system, and the system's gonna think it's a bit complicated. I'm just saying that we standing here have the legal authority, we've led to a conclusion as suggested here, and I urge and urgent senators, to take this step. I know that this matter can be taken up in operating groups, in committees, and officials in many councilmen will be able to give an opinion on this. Okay, we'll listen to specialists, of course, I'm not trying to belittle them. We need to be careful, it's a big deal, but let's not lose this case to the cats, so to speak, because we had a word on the system guy's mind here. With all due respect for the walkies, they're absolutely necessary. Let us make this political decision to legalize this agreement, after of course to the staff of the welfare committee, and, of course, the World Health Committee can look to any member group, it may be absolutely necessary, but let's not lose this matter, and then it goes into the systemite, as it were. We've seen it happen a lot of times that some groups are supposed to look at things, and I know that the senators don't want to, they want to see the money done. I second the fact that I'm not asking for any quick treatment, I just want this case to get a priority at the Senate committee, and it's a treatment that I think all of us support and that the step to the full will be taken this time. Finally, I would like to give special attention to the texts that were received to members of the Parliament this morning from Maturity, which had been mentioned earlier, but I was just going to make those words in the conclusion of a mature help to my final words. It says, by permission of the President: Since the contract is legalized, the human rights of disabled persons will be given increased protection, and justice will increase. A determined individual can then carry the terms of the contract as an unambiguous court order for judgment or government. Legalization will arouse the public as well as the people dealing with the cases of disabled persons in the courts, in the administrations and in preparation for legislation, to further awareness of the human rights of disabled persons, and to the dignity that will be expected to be shown to them in the legal state. The legalization of the agreement on disabled persons will also increase, internationally, trust in the respect of the Icelandic state for the human rights of disabled people. I think this little one is going to say anything that needs to be said here at the end.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u60	Madam President. I just have to come up here because I thought I was just a little bit of a misunderstanding. Of course, I support the matter, as we did in a conversation this morning in a public field, me, and why. Senator. I'm not talking about getting into some sort of system pit and getting lost. I was just wondering what happened around the children's contract. When we legalized him, there were many other laws that needed to be changed. That's definitely true in this case too. That's what I'm trying to say. Can we hurry this up? I'm kind of saying that. The committee takes it to heart and wins it. She will. And he calls everyone and all that. But it would only be the best thing to do if the first group took up this matter as well, away from the appointment here at the council. And even the committee that gets it just wants it to be done at the same time, beginning with checking whether there is any need for a change in law to take place so that we can do this quickly and effectively. That's what I meant, so the misunderstanding is corrected.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u61	Madam President. I realize exactly what the senator was trying to impress us. I agree with that, and I'm glad to hear it. A senator supports the case. But again: I'm just afraid that if we give them a message from this platform that it's just gonna go into this company, maybe nothing will happen. I want this case for Congress treatment, but, of course, I'm not recommending that the first team look at it, especially if it speeds up. I'm especially interested in the fact that in the Senate arrangement, we're beginning to conclude that the government, not one minister, but the government, prepares the legalization of this contract, and this has to do with many agencies, I realize that. It's not just a Minister of Justice, it's not just under the Department of Social Affairs, it's under the Department of Social Affairs, because we're just concluding that this deal will be legalized, but that the adjustment of other Icelandic legislation will be completed. We see that we have already begun to wonder who should translate the contract, the Ministry of State, or the Ministry of Health. We're wondering which committee to get this. Of course, there's a complexity there, but if there's a wish, it doesn't have to be very complex. But I'm especially glad to have you back. A senator on the subject. That's what counts.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u62	A respectable president. The suggestion reads: ▪ The General concludes that it was wrong to propose a judicial hearing against counselees on September 28, 2010, as agreed by Council Regulation No. 30/138. This was the case with ministers who deserved an apology. The proposal I make here is brought by three members of the council. Transporters point to a series of basics. First, the findings of the Mosaic Law show that there was no cause for complaint. Second, the lack of harmony with the laws of Ministerhood, general penalties by incident and by national law, i.e. that there have been a number of cases in the political history where decisions, decisions, or inactions, the politicians may have put the interests of the country at risk without any cause to react under charges. Third, the movers make a note of how a vote on the topic was made. She gave evidence that one of the two had happened, that there had either been an amazing coincidence that then determined who was accused and who was not, or what seems to be really there, that certain members of Congress were involved in the votes in a way that ensured that only one minister, Geir H. Haarde the former prime minister would be prosecuted, while others were not informed that the Ministers were being discussed in the motion of a special member of Parliaments who charged charges against the council. Fourth, movers point out that the democratic government of the country is a threat to efforts to obtain an active or ex - politicians in prison because of political action or after acts of inactivity without any intention or intent to cause harm. We know, a respected president, that many political and political policies may fall to causing significant damage to communities. However, disagreements about such should lead to elections rather than to courts. I think it's right to say that I was certainly not a sponsor of the government in which the ministers in this case were involved. Another closer one. This government was active when I became involved in politics, and it could be said that my involvement in politics began as a result of opposition to the way in which that government dealt with a very large amount of solution that society then faced. Far from agreeing with the politics, policy, that was run in the time of that government. However, I felt that at the end of that government, when there was an opportunity to attack a change in policy, it was a disaster to try to get the minister of this administration imprisoned for the extent to which they were approaching these important issues at their time. Men like me could disagree completely with the counsellors and the government on how it handled matters, but trying to deal with them by putting these people in prison led to a political trial conducted here in Iceland against one of the former Ministers, the former prime minister of the country. As most people no doubt recall, a small proportion of members of the council were in line to accuse the former prime minister of six things. Two of these were immediately dismissed from the Mosaic Law, not even taken up, not to be considered to be such. The minister was acquitted in three of the remaining four charges, but most of the judges, although not all of them, considered Geir H. Haardeur to be correct in judging the weakest and vagueest charges, not to have booked in the government conferences a discussion of the economic catastrophes that then swept over the world and were in the news every day. However, because the minister had not written specifically that the government had discussed this most controversial issue of the day, he was sentenced to death. However, the sentence was considered to be no more than the responsibility that the punishment would be no and more, and it is particularly interesting, and now put things in context, that the State should pay the cost of justice. As the result was unmistakably clear, the legal structure of the Senate committee that brought charges and positions to the greater part of the council in the case of Geir H. Haarde was not entitled to do anything. It is so absurd to argue that by the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights on matters involved in the treatment of the National Court, there is some justification in the case of the General Assembly on this matter. That a national judgment was not deemed to be a violation of human rights in the way he held this matter does not change, since it was incorruption on the terms of the Generals, such as the council, or more of it, and a dear former prime minister for their political policy or the way he held matters for the past decade ago. A respectable president. This too has often been a misleading discussion of the Mosaic Law. Even the members of the Parliament have been endeavored to present this matter in such a way that the members of the Parliament and the members of the council who agreed to it were forced to do so because we have been living with out - of - date laws on the land. That's a very ridiculous thing to do. I don't talk about it when it is added that another former prime minister, the one who was prime minister at the time of the trial, Sigurðardóttir Sigurddardóttir, proposed a synopsis proposal to revise the laws of the land when in 2001. You can even hear the thought that only if this suggestion by Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir had been accepted could have been avoided all of this. The fact of the matter, however, is that Geir H. Haarde was not charged with violating the Mosaic Law. He was charged with violating the law on the rights of ministers and of general penalties. If the court had been canceled, it would not have changed the charge, the case would have simply been thrown into public courts. And what about Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir from 2001? Did she reduce the risk of political trials? There's something else. The suggestion was that the arrangements for a minister to be charged were too heavy. There would have to be a simple system. In other words, it was too complicated, too difficult, to provide political legal rights in Iceland, in the opinion of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir in 2001. She suggested that it be considered whether there would be any reason to settle the Mosaic Law and to dismiss matters in public courts. It came with the story. However, it was specifically stated that if this were the case, the General should continue to administer the court of justice. Also, a change of judicial law might be considered, so the General could appoint special judges when it appealed against stewards. It is naturally insane to suggest that the council be able to accuse a minister and appoint its own judges. That the accuser can choose a judge to judge the accused. But this isn't over, Mr. Honorable President. This is going to get worse, for in these proposals it was also found that there might be a reason to provide a smaller part of the council, a set proportion, a court order against counsellors. In other words, people might avenge the courts that were in the General Assembly. A minority of members of Congress may decide to accuse a minister and order a judge to judge him. This was the suggestion of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir to reevaluate the law of the land and evidently would not have been a failure to reduce the risk of political trials, but it would have made them much more likely. Therefore, the conclusion of the Court's court's decision, along with all talk about possible and likely a timely review of national law, does not change the fact that there was a political trial in Iceland. It is important to deal with the fact and to use the opportunity now to bring it to its conclusion, to demonstrate Generalis's view of it. I've made several attempts to deal with this matter, both before the proposal of a lawsuit was accepted at the time and then several times after it had become a thing. I have to have it traced here, have done it elsewhere, but I just wanted to mention it in order to confirm that this is not just coming to now ten years after the case began, so to speak, but is the result and extension of a long process. But how important it is that the Council uses the opportunity now available to decide that it is wrong to do political rights and that this 1088 - year - old institution is speaking clearly in that respect. When the hearing was received, when the minister was accused and tried to accuse others, much was discussed with the importance of a comment. Surely, though, we must feel that now it is important to settle this national issue. At the time, some of those who went through this trial have indirectly quoted Robespierre, one of the leaders of the French Revolution, who said: "Although a decision about charges may not be considered princely in itself, it is a consequence of the prince's use of democracy and what must be done to protect society. We heard a similar appeal on the land case. When it came to judging the French king at the time, in 1792, I think it was, Robespierre said: "It is with great sadness that I describe the inevitable truth that Lúðvík must die so that the land may live. I think we've heard similar things not so long ago here in Iceland, although in the case of luck, we did not have the death penalty. But extreme and apostasy from the basic princes of the state of justice is always justified from the common good. Then I quote another man, a man who wrote about the French Revolution and predicted how it would develop, the Irish philosopher Burke Burke, who said: "It is a common universality to imagine that those who complain of public interests are those who have his best interests at heart. The best way to protect the entire interest is to protect the rights of each person, regardless of who they are. By this proposal, the General will have the opportunity to confirm that this prince will be respected and reject political trials in Iceland. After this discussion, I suggest that the matter be settled. Board of Directors and Follow-up Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u63	Madam President. I wondered if this suggestion is a good use of our time. But all right, we can, at least, accept this and make it some sort of philosophical subject. First thing. I refer to another Frenchman, Dominique De Villepin, who at one time said that accusations were useless. In the foundation of this proposal, opposition to it involves two different types of ideas about how righteousness works in a legal state. On the one hand is the idea, which is the basis of the court that I believe, that if a criminal or illegal activity is suspected, and the prosecution considers it more likely to be proved guilty, it is reasonable that the case should be handled in court. This contains a principle of innocence until proven guilty, and it is an extremely important cornerstone of the legal state. The charge is harmless, there is no judgment, and, of course, people are to respect it. It is the judgment of the court that is judgment and that is nothing else. The contrary idea is expressed in this proposal, in my opinion, and the proposal even comes to the council signed by educated lawyers that I find a little difficult to understand. They should, of course, know better than others how the legal system works. It is the idea that in the charges themselves there is a sentence, and that a fine does not have to prove it. Rather, the court is actually just the first level of punishment. This idea is preposterous, not just because if it is true in Geir H. Haarde's case, we either have to confess to ourselves a dual system of justice, where rulers receive treatment other than others, or we have to eliminate the principle that people are innocent until proven guilty. I don't exist in either of their options. I don't think they're both bad. Remember that the Court of the Land acquitted Geir H. Haardeur of all the accusers except one, i.e. the formal apology, i.e. Justifiably, proof of innocence. Remember, too, that the Mosaic Law condemned Geir H. Haardeur in one side, a fine was proved, but, in fact, a very moderate punishment, as was attributed. Now I ask: Will the Central Party and their political team really start to stand for requesting that the Council ask a man who was found guilty of a very minor crime but yet still a crime -- a crime may not be the right word, excuse, the techs may be able to correct me, but at all times the legal offense? If that's the case, I'd like to know if this group was planning to apologize to other guilty men on what basis and on what basis. Where are the lines drawn? When does the law consider minor enough for those who are found guilty of such an apology to be reproved by the General? Even the question might be asked: If not used in the case of such a court case, and when such suspicions arise, what threat is there to the abuse of power or other violations of the minister's responsibility? Maybe no one? On the contrary, there has long been a lack of responsibility for power in Iceland, that members of Congress who find out to misuse their power or profit personally from misuse of rules, as well as from responsibility for it; that ministers who are exposed to tax evasion or other lawbreakers will yield to and even be subject to a normal investigation. I'm not saying this because of one person or any other person here or anywhere, but I say this on the contrary because I feel that the behavior and behavior of an elected representative are above all doubt. When in doubt or charge comes, people will simply be judged or not, or they will simply be condemned or innocent. There is evidence that Geir H. Haarde was sentenced to one team and was acquitted in another. To achieve this, the European Court of Human Rights has approved of how all of this was done. So this is not a problem that really needs to be solved. It doubles justice that politicians and other rulers, and even justly associated with members of the community or rich people, or who they are, will always receive less treatment than all others, when justice comes up, are shameful for society. If something is, it should be those who directly ask the public to give them extra power than others who should have to endure the most intense criticism. Congressmen and Ministers who become aware of violations in their own interests or in the interests of their relatives are to be more responsible than other ministers and ministers who violate the laws of the Ministerial Servants, of course, should not be apologized for the fact that this and a natural process is being followed. I have no doubt that Geir H. Haarde is the expected man, as well as Björgvin G. Sigurðsson, Invil Sólrún Gísladóttir, and Árni Mathiesen, all of whom were at that time exposed to similar reproofs. When suspicions arise, it is normal to follow a normal course and does not have to apologize for that process. If you are to apologize for something, it might be more likely that you did not allow the rest of the stewards, who were rebuked for standing before the court rather than keep the uncertainty hanging on forever. This case is preposterous, and I honestly don't understand what the authorities are trying to get out with this proposal. It is as if they were exaggerating old wounds, remembering that it was almost ten years ago. They're exaggerating old wounds, perhaps by some whistle helicopter, which is a bad use of our time here. So I'm not going to waste any more time on any further discussion on this matter that's unnecessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u64	V.E.G. President. I have to admit, I'm really worried about ideas. Senator on the state of the court. This issue is about the way the Council wielded its power. Not whether Geir H. Haarde was convicted of a parking ticket or some formality but of what was done by the General Assembly. Having prosecution is important. The problem we have here is, and when we look at the judgment of the court, we see, and it's so obvious to all of us that it was not a matter of exercising its power. There was a political resolution. The question is, doesn't it seem that if we've been misinvigorated at the council, members of the council feel that we're sorry for that? What's wrong with that? That we just apologize for having treated our authority badly? In my mind, and I wrote about it when I was working as a lawyer, when I looked at this charge, I was shocked. And I did not then serve in the Independence Party. I was really worried about that, what. Senator, what would the General do with his power? And I thought about the revolution in France, and I thought about the ideologies that were taking over here in 2009 and taking over elsewhere, there's always the same thing. In one way or another, remove the political opposers and change the constitution. It's always the same. This is a dangerous trend. I want to ask you why. A member of Parliament: If the senator feels that this treatment is proper, he just says it; but if he feels that it was not good and bad, whether he feels that it is wrong to apologize.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u65	Madam President. It's a good point by a dog. Senator. I have been a great spokesman that men who abuse their authority admit it, they apologize. But in this particular case, the European Court of Human Rights took this matter to heart and considered it on the basis of human rights law, the United Nations Convention of Human Rights, no, the European Union... [[Up front.]] No, Europe, this is the Council of Europe, now I'm confusing all kinds of things together. But it was reviewed and concluded that all of this was in harmony with good habits. Whether individual senators at that time have resented their authority when they voted with this proposal, their headache and their appreciation are appreciated. But in this case, I can't think of the General himself as having mismanagement of his authority where there was a true suspicion that proved to be right in one charge, but it proved true that not all laws had been properly adhered to. Of course, humans are to be responsible when they abuse their authority. I would love it if there were a lot more common phenomenon in Icelandic politics. But this does not change the legitimate way for it to be done. The European Court of Human Rights concluded that this was done in a legitimate way and should not need to be repossessed any further. It may be that we may disagree, but what I'm asking me primarily is that if certain members of the council who were then experiencing their mismanagement of authority, they should, of course, apologize. But the Council is not supposed to waste their time on this, since all of this was the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u66	V.E.G. President. The European Court of Human Rights is not taking a personal position on this matter. He simply says: "This arrangement is not a violation of the covenant. This does not change the way humans exercise their authority. If the district attorney is mismanaged, unprovoked, and so forth, then the European Court will leave no fingers in it. Form's okay, the organization's okay. But materially and when you look at it, why? A senator, can no one say but that this charge, and all her members, except this one formality, was, of course, political resolution. If you don't see it, they're totally blind to me. But humans can be at peace with it and feel that it is normal to have such an act. I don't think that's normal. Prosecutors are not meant to take political contributions. That's my food. And if the General has done that, they should apologize for that. Not one member of Congress. One such thing is that it comes from this council of Congress in the past. We can't just say, it was just a situation like that, a situation like this. We can try to justify this foolishness by being upset and traumatized. Let's just do it. But I have to say, as it is, it was a political trial. It's right in front of us. It has nothing to do with the European Court of Human Rights. We are to keep it safe, and that may be the point of all this together, that we will not go back to some of this sort while the law is still there, we will not go back to such an act in such years, and we will suffer such calamities. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u67	Madam President. It's like we're right next to what's wrong. A senator that comes out of this room in a way that doesn't look right. Should we apologize every time that some evil council proposal is accepted, some bad law is set in motion, even a law that causes suffering in the community? Or should each member of the council be somewhat more responsible for the way he operates and be a little more aware of the consequences of his actions? Was that a political act? I don't know. I wasn't in politics at the time. Even the political party I work with did not exist. Of course, I was watching this, but that's not what I'm pointing out. What I'm trying to criticize is that accusing, having doubts about rights is being made suspicious. That's the suggestion. I'm not about to go for a political witch hunt. That's not a good idea. And, of course, people must be responsible. But when the tool is used, a tool is like a whale. A senator rightly points out that the form is perfectly fine, and thankfully this wonderful phenomenon, entitled the Court's Last Decision, to determine whether right was exercised by power. However, if an ordinary prosecutor or State prosecutor is misinhibited, decides to accuse someone for political or personal purposes and to use his power badly, the court is in place to make a final decision. Lucky for you. It would be bad if the prosecution and the court were to ask each other. But in this case, the Council made this decision, perhaps for political purposes, perhaps not, but the court did its work perfectly and made a more fine decision. We're just supposed to celebrate, not be almost ten years later trying to make this up.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u68	V.E.G. President. It's time for a discussion of this matter and hopefully a release at the Council. I was at the council when this inhumanity was over, and it taught you things, not only how the Allied can function but also how peculiar human nature can be. I'll let me put it that way. Here in this room, there was a political trial. Here certain individuals were taken out of parentheses and said that they were responsible for something they could not prevent or are responsible for, in fact, as many have been shown and proved. This was calculated as how the vote was going to go. There were men drawn into the room, there was a phone call, they were taken off the side to ensure that votes fell like this. It was a political trial, the result was calculated. That's exactly what I'm reminded of. A former senator named Ögmundur Jónasson told us what kind of nonsense has been going on here. This was the position of the General for some politicians to want to get political. They said, "Now's your chance, man. I'm sorry, Mr. Honorable President. It was a political trial and nothing more. It was sad, I'm not going to say how pathetic it was to be here and to witness this. You also saw and heard how the senators spoke, that now was the opportunity to show them once and for all that this would not work, that these people could not rule as if nothing had happened, etc. I was reading accounts about this time before this talk, what the senators had said in conversation with reporters and others about how they were doing. I can testify to someone somehow after this vote, as if something had just died. It had been brought down by the General Assembly, with a political trial that was never to take place. It was really sad. Then you come here like a senator of Pirata and start talking about time being badly spent. They should rather review what Pirats are doing at the council and try to make more use of their time. Here was, I'm just gonna say it, go to a political trial with people who didn't deserve it - and you can't discuss it here. In 2011 the head of the Independence Party tried to bring a witness to the members of the council here, wanting to suggest that this decision be restored. In fact, it was submitted, but it prevented her from getting paid, much for the same people who were involved. A respectable president. It is time that the Council specifically apologized to the former Prime Minister and also to the others who were specifically accused of these charges. Let us not forget that the Council was charged. The majority agreed to charge, and they can't say it was just some decision at a council. The court was to discuss the matter and find fault or innocence. Congress officials took that position, based on political thinking, not on evidence, that these people should be accused, and especially of this one, a former prime minister. I took this matter up at the time. I'm just as depressed now as I was then, less than a decade ago. I'm not gonna say I knew, but it was at least I believe this would follow the Council for many years, the Council would have been put down with this, not because it was based on some objective conclusion, no, it was an opportunity that men took advantage of. That's the saddest part of it. It was supposed to be renovated. Now is the chance to do just the right thing. He'll never be fully right, we know that. What was the outcome of a national judgment? Yes, a former prime minister was ashamed not to hold enough meetings. You thought it was a little bit of a joke, I have to say just right now, after all this bullshit. After everything that had happened and the order of the Generals with it, that led to the conclusion. It's really weird. Actually, I think there should be something else. I think the General should have a proper view of himself in thanking Geir Hilmar Haardeur for leading Iceland through this time, 2008◯2009. Who led here and used the law? Wasn't it former prime minister Geir Hilmar Haarde? Have people especially thanked you for this? Isn't it right to take that disgusting rock out here and put a picture of the man in its place? It's just amazing how humans have acted on this whole matter. A respectable president. I hope this case is taken up in a quick and healthy payment by a board of administration and surveillance board, that it will not be attempted to do the same thing as 2011, when it was prevented by the then president--yes, it is indeed still -- The Independence Party, Bjarni Benediktsson, the current financial minister, who has, in fact, led some of these birds back into power, that there will be no way back in which the World Council will be clear in this matter. It's time to do that. I hope, more dignified President, this way you can close this chapter on the subject. Unfortunately, this project and the political drama presented here, this reputation for this man in particular, will hang over the Council forever.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u69	Madam President. I'm not going to have any comment on the events that this case was about 10 years ago. I was not in politics, and I didn't even live in Iceland at the time. On the other hand, in this interesting discussion, I cut down a little bit that there's a lot of emphasis on what's going to happen in here and not from the community, from the public, from his share, and the way the common people experienced it all. But I'm gonna move on to another matter. When my colleague in North America originally said that this was a waste of General Time, I agreed. However, after listening to the discussion, I feel that it is really necessary, as if I say nothing necessarily who did what ten years ago but how we want these things inside the Council. What do we want to do? This discussion has opened my eyes very much. Hv. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son brought me another roll I hadn't seen till he pointed at him, e.g. What the General will do to the prosecution. It is quite different from what came to the conclusion of this amazing case. Hv. paritaprevir Brins the Brynjar of Níelsson spoke a great deal of words in his speech. Then I would like to ask: But why not have some sort of fiction, not political, but some sort of resolution at regular intervals? Similarly, I ask: Isn't this case really an arrangement that is being moved here today? I'm going to finish this by saying it's really interesting, it's fun and it's good to come up right now because at the end of the week, I'm reminded, I'm going to take the top. Prime Minister presents this trust report with a remarkable and interesting experience. In the context of this, it is very good that this discussion opened up the matter. We who work at the National Parliament need to ask ourselves, " How do we want to do this? '
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u70	V.E.G. President. I come up to give an answer because a question was basically addressed to me. When people are affected by such calamities, they must review everything, why, if we can learn anything, etc. It was done. This was a thorough investigation and an examination, and some suggestions were provided. That work started immediately in this large investigational committee of Generals. For some reason, it was not enough for someone to look at it. Someone had to be punished, it was as if they weren't happy sooner, instead of saying, "Hey, wait, they did their best in some situation, but it happened. Then these charges were no more insane than those who prepared laws that completely set up this nation in record - time. The emergency law was fundamental. The results were amazing, since men had long been preparing for the crash, preparing this for the collapse, doing absolutely well - and then receiving a charge. That's what I feel down below all the caves. It was just this way. I don't see Generalis's excuse here and now as some resolution with some senators at the time. I'm just saying, the General is responsible for this. It was a national offense, a scandal, an emergency. Let's ask the person a good name for that. It's just what I think is normal. Whether this is the case, or otherwise, the matter can be debated.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u71	Thank you. paritaprevir Good answers from the armoury of the son of Níelsson. I can better understand what he meant earlier. However, I wondered, " Is it reasonable for the Council of 2018 to apologize for a series of events that took place earlier and perhaps, especially because it is so political? ' They're talking about it being a political mission to someone. Is it normal for the General to be put in this position, in view of the fact that members of the Parliament have no access to proper information in order to form an informed opinion as to whether this was a political venture or not? Is that an example we would like to set? That's what I want to end up saying.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u72	V.E.G. President. It's all right to ask yourself, " Is this the right way to do this? Am I supposed to do this? ' I don't think there's anything unusual about how we can do this. What I'm just saying is that this high charges on a number of serious teams, where everywhere they were acquitted, you say it was at least Be a failure. Because I've been working in this system for so long, I've been very concerned that men who have authority, especially the prosecution, are good at it, become difficult, and become quite certain that there will be some success. I'm looking at an old accuser who I insist was very comfortable with his prosecution, okay? paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason. That's what matters. This is important to me because we can't always just say, "If it's wrong, the courts will correct it." On the contrary, the charges are extremely difficult, and they include long litigation. The street court often arrives. Although a person is acquitted, another conclusion is found at the street court. Prosecution is such an important power that people cannot accuse themselves of nothing easy, not politics or anything like that. That's what I'm trying to come to. That's why I'm a member of this council arrangement. It may have been possible that things could have been done differently. We can totally debat about it. But I would never want to start justifying it and say it was just over and done, it would be just some old showdown and ask if it wasn't necessary. Despite her age, we apologize and respect for the fact that we do something foolish.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u73	Thank you. paritaprevir The armoury of the son of Níelsson for these answers. I'm gonna lay down on it and digest it just for me.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u74	Madam President. I believe this case has appealed far beyond the national issue which is the reason for this proposal. In my mind, this situation is more difficult to defend Iceland is a state of justice without any discount being given to it. The state of rights and democratic government arrangements are the cornerstones of Icelandic society. It is good to have an opportunity to emphasize the importance of the legal government and to have strong words about what people are facing when they do not have it. Humans know what happens to human rights and civilization in totalitarian countries, where the right state is like any other foreign thought. In the state of the court, there is no need for political views on the scene of the prosecution, nor should the members of the council be influenced by who is being accused. Political development is to take place in politics, not in courts. This decree of the Senate includes an appeal for Iceland to be a state of justice and a demand that the rules of the state of justice be respected. That's why I support this suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u75	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank the first merchant of this matter for bringing it into the council in this way and give us another chance to be part of this urgent matter. I say like some of the people who have spoken today that I didn't sit here when this happened. I was active in the media and looked at it from outside and in, and the truth was the best thing to do for looking at what was going on at the World Council at that time. It's not so, as it turned out. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy earlier, that it's not a good time for the council to discuss this. This is a matter of absolute importance in the members of the council. In fact, there is some strong argument that the Council's time is rarely better spent than just discussing this matter. You see, it's like a whale. paritaprevir The question of mismanagement, not with ordinary authority, but with a charge, was recorded earlier by Nephess the son of Níelsson. It is not as if some sort of general prosecution or charge on the charge of the prosecutor was involved in this case. It was that the Council made a political decision to accuse certain individuals. It's so special a capitalite how the vote went, and it was interesting to hear from the wind. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, who was here witnessing all of these events, or these unorthodox ones, as I would like to call it, how men planned the vote, which ended in such a fatal outcome. I don't think it's a coincidence that they're not so crowded in the council hall of the party that most shamefully took place in the vote. No, this is not a bad time. This afternoon to discuss this. I was so happy to hear what I heard. paritaprevir Sara Elísa, the daughter of Þórðardóttir, shall say, if I know her well, that she had changed her mind. She would have first agreed with her coworker. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy said that this was a bad time, but then she found that there was a basis for this to be discussed. You may not need to give a long talk about this. But I just wanted to say at the end that I felt the best way to say, as a member of this hall, if I could have the opportunity to apologize for the noncooperative work the Council worked here less than a decade ago. The General Assembly here is being referred to as an institution, that is not necessarily the Council with the individuals who sat here then. That's why, for example. The State's authority was to apologize for the various things enjoyed here decades ago regarding nursing homes, recording homes, and other things that were being done under the State's cover at the time. The State now feels obliged not only to apologize but also to improve it in some way. And I say again that I'd feel better if the Allied made up for this hard work by saying I'm sorry for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u76	A respectable president. I thank them. Congress members who participated in this discussion or heard it. I would like to mention, though, specifically that I was a little shocked to listen to a talk. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr because with his talk, I felt that the senator showed that this discussion was truly needed. Since I thought it was pretty scary when I spoke at night. The senator's message was that even those accused were not to be a major issue; they should be glad to be accused of having a chance to prove their innocence. The reason why I thought this was scary is, apart from how absurd it is, that this is exactly what people heard in East Germany at the time and in the Soviet Union. People should only rejoice over charges, so they would have the opportunity to prove that they were innocent men. To mention this in the context of this case here in Iceland gives me a sign that I do not result from the fact that in this country a political trial is out of the question and that men do not attack just to give them a chance to prove their innocence. In fact, the story goes with the fact that ministers who were not charged would just have had bad luck not to get a chance to prove their innocence. And so this is so far past, it has been ten years - I doubt, in the opinion of the defendant Geir H. Haardes, ten years since the end of this case, if that is in his mind. You see, this is a matter that has never been completed and is, as a result, uninhabited. However, since the council conclude that it was wrong to charge these charges, or attempts to charge, we can in a way finish this case, even if in a certain way. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, of course, did not quite mention this neighborhood. I'm pointing out what. Congress members, if someone thinks it is inappropriate for them to do so themselves, or experience it as if they themselves are personally apologizing by agreeing to this proposal, allowing the wording of the proposal to give a considerable amount of room. It says that the Ministers in question deserve an apology. It can only be determined by themselves by where they owe them an apology. However, with this recommendation it would be by the council to end the matter in a certain way, to show that this was, in the opinion of Generalis, a mistake that this institution as such or more of the members of Congress, and therefore this institution had made in its own time, and a mistake that man never intended, never to repeat.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u77	President. I hereby recommend a synonym on signing and validating optional accounting with an international agreement on economic, social, and cultural rights. The proposal was previously submitted to the 147th legislation and the 148th legislature and is now largely remanded unchanged. The International Convention on Economic, Social, and cultural rights, as follows, refers to the ◯ treaties of me, was adopted at the UN General Assembly on December 16, 1966, signed for December 30, 1968, and validated on August 22, 1979. The opening words of the agreement state that the states that are party to the agreement have in mind to acknowledge man's inborn dignity and equal rights for all people are the basis for freedom, justice, and peace in the world. In the introduction to the treaty, his member states recognize the concept of freedom, fearlessness, and failure only the creation of conditions for everyone to enjoy economic, social, and cultural rights, both civil and political rights. By validation of the Treaty in Iceland, certain economic, social, and cultural rights were granted protection which they had not previously enjoyed. The validation of the contract thus included a major step in the history of the national rights protection. At the General Assembly of the United Nations on December 10, 2008, an optional Protocol was adopted to the Treaty on Economic, Social, and cultural rights which included the establishment of a judicial committee that operates under the contract and has the legal authority for violating treaties against the terms of the agreement. Work on this publication has been in progress since the 1990's, but after its approval at the UN General Assembly, signing began on September 24, 2009. Since then, 49 countries have joined the deal. Since 2013 the first decisions have been made. In 1979 the United Nations'two international treaties were validated by the United Nations. It involved an international agreement on civil and political rights and on the other hand on economic, social, and cultural rights. Along with the validation of the international agreement for civil and political rights, a well - established optional accounting was established by a judicial committee called the United Nations Human Rights Committee. However, the Committee operates only under the international contract on civil and political rights, thus accepting only solutions involving the first generation of human rights. As a result of the validation of the optional book of the Convention on Economic, Social, and cultural rights, a similar lawsuit would be set up for a violation of that contract and would thus receive additional protection comparable to what has been valid for civil and political rights since 1979. During 2016-2017, a total of the UN Human Rights Council was conducted on the status of human rights in Iceland. The report reviewed how the Icelandic government has followed the recommendations of the previous UN assessment and reported how measures have been taken to improve the state of human rights in Iceland. The report noted that Iceland has validated all optional books with the United Nations Convention on Human Rights, to which it is involved, except the books on an economic, social, and cultural contract, an agreement against torture and other brutal, inhuman or demeaning treatments or punishment and third book making with the children's covenant. The Icelandic government was encouraged to validate optional accounting on economic, social, and cultural rights. A government report on the UN Generalized on the position of human rights published on August 1, 2016, did not give a specific position to consider whether the government was focusing on the signing and validation of the book. Clearly, in recent years and decades the value of economic, social, and cultural rights has increased greatly. Signing and validation of an optional contract may help to increase the protection of these rights. Thus a similar lawsuit would be set up for the rights protected in an international civil and political contract. It's been a long time since Iceland became part of this contract and confirmed the importance of the rights he protects, both by changes in law and in constitution, and also in court. By signing and validating an optional contract with the contract, the NTSB that operates under the contract will be able to receive details from individuals in Iceland. Taking this step will increase the protection of these important rights, and it will be suggested that the Allied Council assigns the government to sign for Iceland and validate the optional book on an international agreement on economic, social, and cultural rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u78	Madam President. I hereby recommend a bill to correct a law of law No. 38/2001, interest and insurance. My importers are down. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason, Sæland Sóland, Jónína Óskarsdóttir Oscarsdótir, Árnadóttir Kolbrönóri, Bergþór Birgir, Þórarinsson, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, Sigurður Páll Jónsson, and Þrstein Sæmundsson. This bill expects a change in 14th paragraph. The law, so we're 1st. add three new terms, as follows: a mortgage to insurance loans with mortgages in an apartment building is required to calculate the impact of changes in indirect taxes and quarters of the index price and that the provisional interest rates are not higher than 2% per year. The Icelandic economist shall be published with a monthly index, with indirect tax and housing removed. It is concluded that as many as 25 - year - old loans as credit loans with mortgages in an apartment building have borrowed money. Madam President. Targets for this bill and for the changes presented here on law No. 38/2001, on terms of growth and insurance insurance, is trying to balance the contract's status on securable loans to purchase apartment housing and provide a more reasonable amount of loans to finance their homes than this one has offered. Now, it's as much as you would like to see behind this arrangement the insurance policy that has been here with all the people too long, but I realize the situation here at the Council where obviously it's not the norm for the decommission of the arrangement and therefore it's sought to make it more acceptable for those who are weaker in the contract, i.e. individuals and homes No one needs to get in the way of anything, Madam President, that the contract partners in the loan trade have an equal position, especially because of a different financial situation where the difference between parties is substantial, but even more so, when it comes to knowledge of financial matters. Betrayal loans are not simple in nature. Banks and credit institutions have far more knowledge of financial markets and of the factors that can affect the development of prices and purchases and thus on credit rates than on the entire population. The fall of the crown and the inflation crash during the 2008 economic fall is much reduced, as well as the effects of these events on the punitive loans of the households, with dire consequences for the country's homes and for the benefit of families. Hence, there is plenty of material to take to equalize the vast difference between the parties of such loan agreements. This bill is designed to play a role in this purpose. The subject of the bill is basically four. I'll take them here for one by one. For one thing, insurance is a means of dealing with the effects of overall prices that are to be attributed to the fall of the crown in such cases. It should be realized that such change in prices is anything but a change in prices resulting from the government's specific actions, resulting in a change in prices. The specific actions in such a way that governments make certain ones fail to match the general definition of inflation, which naturally includes the loss of money and therefore general prices. What is most appropriate here are government decisions that lead to the acquisition of state funds, influence of changes in indirect taxes, and specific forms of charge on individual products, such as fuel, alcohol, and tobacco. Madam President. There is no material to lend credit to the lenders, depending on the way they manage their purchases, which are designed to care for the work in the public service and the nature of the situation. The same applies also to tax laws aimed at achieving certain social goals, e.g. with a set of health and loyalty-to-target categories and on fuel to achieve targets for global commitments in climate such as carbon pay. There is no evidence that such charges are added to the borrowers of insurance mortgage loans by raising these loans' capitals and by weighting their payments, and there are no material for financial institutions by the government, who are pursuing some social objective, funding some measures with increased indirect taxes, or with special taxes designed to influence the consumption patterns of people, new demands on their homes, and that they have in the same way that the whole system of justice is behind them when it comes into debt. Second, Mrs. President, in recent years, it has been observed that the so - called index value of consumer prices, which do not rely on any consistent international standard, has resulted in a much greater rise in the ossuary and payments of prices in the country than has been achieved. Thus, financial and economic secretary has informed in response to a request from the one currently available, that over a five - year period, 2012-2017, the benefits of an apartment loan due to a general financial increase of 15 billion dollars have been studied. but at the same time, 118 billion came down. above the price-secured home loans due to the impact of index teams. I reiterate this number, Madam President. Global prices resulted in a 15 billion rise in residence loans, but the facilities for index 118 billion. The share of the retail price is 88.7%, to be maintained. It can be claimed that a corresponding transfer of property from borrowers to financial institutions would not be tolerated or available in neighboring countries of the Icelanders. The difference in index price between and without housing teams was relative in 2013, but the largest 2017 when the index price for consumers without housing was substantially negative, as high prices have been reached in Iceland since the mid- 2016 if the index number is excluded. In the prices of the past few years, the creditors have not enjoyed the price of climate development, but the housing team has forced them to take over the weight, I allow myself to say it. Hv. paritaprevir It's Sæmundsson's tombstone and some more of it. The entire body proposed a 148th legislation proposal for the loss of the index card to calculate the price-separated loans, but it could not be fulfilled. However, it should be noted that no. 17/148 on the workgroup stipulation criteria for insurance, including the components of the index. This bill, as stated above, is that due to the factors considered here, indirect taxes and housing teams of the index, should be assigned to publish the indexes of consumer prices for which their influence has been eliminated. Then you should use that index to calculate the amount of money you can make from the value of your apartment loans. Third, Madam President, in the bill, it is stated that when an apartment loan is in the form of a securable equivalent loan of a foreign bank and that in the Icelandic language it is called annuit, the loan period may not be longer than 25 years. A similar proposal was made by the Management Board at the 145th Council of 2015-2016, dr. It's 817th. 1537. That bill was made up in the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs in cooperation with the Ministry of Presidency and was guided by the views presented in a report by a panel of experts on disintegration insurance of consumer loans from January 2014. The bill suggested that the consumers generally refrain from paying due due due dues to as long as 25 years, with the exception for young people, less income, and less borrowing with a low mortgage rate. The evidence for the changes proposed in the bill is primarily in the unfortunate price-separated loans in the long term that the loans of prices are rolled over and their payments are postponed. This results in slower ownership and an increase in the chances of making loans of one's own negative money. A loan that does not include paying off a head chair, such as a loan with only interest, or loans with a negative head position, so called, is generally undesirable in the interest of consumers. According to a review of a government bill that claims that consumers are not sufficiently aware of the risks of paying due credit loans. To continue with the reference work to limit loan time on the price-separated loans of 25 years, it is stated that in the past decades, the price-separated loan of the same amount of money has been paid to the age of 40, known as Iceland's loans. This title has always seemed somewhat peculiar to me. This is more appropriate when this report was mainly discussed in this year's discussion, that it is a poisonous cocktail, even payment loan for 40 years, because at least During the first 20 years of borrowing, nothing is paid off the loan's head. The last thing you can say is that such a cocktail is poisonous, and that cup must be taken from normal people. A report by the bill of directorship quoted above says that these loans, which are known as Iceland loans, are the most common mortgage to Icelandic homes. In addition, it says that the load of these loans is lower than in other loan forms but because the price paid by the ossuary increases the loan rate of large amounts of loan time and the greater inflation. Although all payments are paid during the first two decades of credit time, the ostensity of these loans increases if prices rise. I allow myself to agree with the viewpoints that have been traced here and in the process of enforcing a diplomacy bill. The constitution referred to here indicates that the regulations of the bill harmonize with the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland and international commitments, such as the European Convention of Human Rights. There it says that the limit to freedom of the contract that the bill holds is part of an effort to improve the quality of home loans and reduce the value of insurance insurance on the real estate market. Now, why not hide in those words an interesting recognition that the nature of insurance on the mortgage market is in a way that from a point of view improved housing loans are material to reduce this value. In addition, the bill cited here says that there have been some of the counterarguments proposed by the experts and that the circumstances in the economy are in place to comply with his proposals, thus preventing us from paying long - term financial bills. I believe it is safe to adopt this proposal in this bill, Mr. President, because it cannot be seen that the situation is now so altered in the economy from what was just a few years ago that the same view is not appropriate, as we have just considered. Fourth, Mr. President, the bill presented here, is intended to level the very inequities between borrowers and consumers when it comes to financing apartment loans, that interest from high prices cannot exceed 2% per year. Presumptuous agreements - and this should be examined very closely, Mr. President - have been determined under market conditions that often appear to be rather characterized by few competition than competitive competition. These decisions reveal growth in such contracts that they do not support a foreign comparison, although similar commitments are not found in neighboring countries of Iceland. The decisions for this growth have been made on these loan bonds, i.e. financing of domestic housing loans, not the maintenance of financial market competition, and they do not maintain any foreign control. It's just not there. It may be noted that the growth of unscrupulous commitments that can be compared in this country with what goes and goes on in neighboring lands, although perhaps a greater competition for that market may be added. Then there's the possibility that the growth of securable commitments will go to a head chair with a running crown value value, Mr. President, i.e. They lie on a chair that's not stuck, it's changing all the time, it's, in fact, growing up all the time. This position differs from the usual loan commitments where a head chair is fixed the size of the entire loan, except for the payments. As a result, there is a switch between parties in terms of price-separated loans, it is borrowing all responsibilities for the rates of the contract, all responsibility for the prices of any amount of money they may be spliced or spliced. This includes insurance that can be considered to have considerable interest in borrowers, as creditors place their assets and profited to live up to this commitment that is otherwise unknown in neighboring countries at the time of apartment loans. The commitment of borrowing is so far off in this respect that it also includes special extra payments in excess of the price change, the extra payment resulting from a systematic failure, which has been called the index box. The problem with overassessments of inflation measurements is well - known. Economics highlight additional distinct reasons why the index price for consumer consumption represents general prices. If it's based on securable debt, the student will be allowed at a rate of 1,700 billion. that means an index line of between 0.3% and perhaps 1.5%, as suggested by scholars, that the index of consumer prices includes annual overassessments, only for these technical reasons, ranging from 5 billion dollars. Up to 25 billion bucks. They must be viewed as property transfers between parties, as well as the tools given by the housing team mentioned earlier, as well as tools made by the borrowers who are expected to improve their tax returns. In that case, borrowers of reputable loans carry all the risks of how much mistakes they may prove to be. Finally, it must be noted that if a financial loan with a pledge in an apartment house, it must be counted among the most secure possessions in every holding office if a bond of authority is held out by public authorities. In view of the huge guarantees that a creditor enjoys the value of a head position on prices and security that he also has on the recovery of the head position, such loans should result in less than in general in view of the fact that loans are usually given to some of the value of housing at the start of a loan. Have creditors there boarded and protected against the price of housing that has been mortgaged for the loan. In addition to housing mortgages, a borrower, as mentioned earlier, may be able to make a loan of adequate housing, and he will have many experiences of testing this assurance by borrowing on loans after leaving his apartment house. As long as there has been a range of insurance loaners, and not all of it, there must be growth in harmony with what is going on in general and where there is no such guarantees. Mr. President. The experience in this country does not seem to indicate that the above factors have weighed heavily on the decision for the growth of securable loans or that the perspective on average honor has always been shown. For these reasons enough material is available to bind interest on such loans, with mortgages at a peak suggested here to be 2% a year. May this be supported, Mr. President, to common guidelines on growth and economic growth in the long term. Today, nearly 40 years have passed since insurance insurance became a regular business exchange for individuals in this country. She came in when the inflation was as hard as when the landscapes of money and loans were completely different from what has happened later. An organized market for bonds had been observed, a stock market heard the future, financial exchange with abroad was limited, and trade between countries with stock markets unknown. Economic institutions, such as these, are now known to offer a wide variety of services to produce goods, and sharing had not come into existence. In these situations, where markets and financial institutions were not premiumed for the application of standard money measures against inflation was to bind economics to index values. Such a approach may be thought to involve a mechanical approach. However, Mr. President, the economy is considered to be subject to changes and organic properties, while engineers'teeth are fixed. When all the other factors have developed, as has now been the case with the use of money measures and therefore the operation of government funds to deal with issues such as inflation and other such, emergency measures such as insurance that have never occurred in our part of the world must be removed. Mr. President. This suggests that the position of the parties in the agreements of the type of agreements that have been made here will be slightly equaled. Of course, it might be possible to go much further. Here we are endeavoring to offer a suggestion that hopes to have greater support, but the full removal of prices would be enjoyed here in the conferences. Finally, I allow myself to suggest that this case be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u79	Mr. President. The public in Iceland has been in bondage to insurance and high interest on the mortgages for years. Price insurance was set 40 years ago, as mentioned here, in Iceland everything else was economic conditions. Vasculitis accounted for about 60% and extreme instability. Today, we live in a very different situation. Inflation is 2.5%, and economic stability prevails. Still, we still live in insurance. It doesn't have to go to the Faeroe Islands to get a decent credit wage in a real estate market. From this chair many times have been discussed the importance of reducing the value of price insurance on the Icelandic financial market. Political groups regularly promise, especially in the contingency of elections, to eliminate insurance. Nothing happens as we know it, and I'm actually thinking that politicians lack the sharpness to eliminate insurance. This bill, where I am with a importer, is an important and reasonable way to reduce the value of insurance. In a paper with the bill on page 18. 4 is an interesting review of the index of consumer prices, i.e. It is generally recognized that the index price of consumers overrated general prices. This overevaluation can be in the range of a quarter of a billion dollars, considering that the house's prices are up to 1,700 billion, as the report shows. This error, this overfood, the lenders, the houses of the land need to carry. This is an increase in the debt of homes over large amounts of money in a very questionable way. What justice is the need for borrowers to pay for a measure of error? Why is this error not taken into account by borrowers? This is a clean, completed system of property, and some would just call it good Icelandic stealing. Most of the studies performed with total chromatography in index assays suggest that it is positive and indexing overactivity, therefore, inflation. This is a serious matter for the public in Iceland who lives in bonded insurance. I don't think there's enough needed attention in the country. Further research on the subject is needed, with the majority of them involved. It is important to make a thorough assessment of the differential of the index price in Iceland and to evaluate the total amount. This study will trust the precise measurement of the index, which is very important to us. It is important that the total index-level defect study is well conducted so that the results are reliable and neutral in order to generally be accepted. The effect of error must be taken into account, thus reducing the contribution of property to it. Mr. President. The U.S. Senate's Senate has examined the role of the index price in the state's welfare system and to give suggestions on what might be done better. The conclusion was that the increase in the number of innovations in the index assays and the increase in demand for services and quality that make measurements more complex. The newcomers were previously taken into the index with a much greater delay than is going on today. In many cases, products were generally used for a majority of households before becoming part of the basis of the index price of consumers. It is a great weakness in the index that she does not take into account the fact that consumers tend to shop less expensively in value and more products that have become more affordable. Most studies in the United States have shown that total error in index assessments indicates positiveness and over-emphasis, as previously indicated. Over time, the pattern of consumption changes. The base measured by the index stops reflecting their consumption composition. Thus, the forces measuring this level need to be regularly adjusted to adjust the modification of the composition. We receive very little information about how regularly this is updated. It is made up of so - called sample scans of the products. Price information is collected regularly as we know little about when the scales are evaluated. When we buy e.g. The fuel is the perfect computer device that measures the amount of money we buy and pumps on the car. This equipment is very regularly checked by a law firm. We are confident that we will obtain the quantity of the car we pay for. Of course, the oil companies don't want us to get more than we pay, because that never happens, that's a good fit for it. But when instruments that measure the index count are too high, which studies have shown that he does frequently, the public needs to pay in the form of an increase in loans. This involves a terrible injustice. Mr. President. Real estate loans are the most loyal loans you can make. In general, living in property is considered the best. As the report on the bill shows, the standard risk-benefit criteria should lead to a lower rate of growth than in general in view of the high guarantee granted by a creditor for the value of the head position and the security of the recovery of head chairs. I want to think about this whole thing. Unfortunately, there is no consideration for the massive insurance that borrows the mortgage. High interest in securities on loans is a testimony to this fact. This is a classic example of the tremendous potential between loans and creditors in Iceland. Mr. President. This bill is important to our country's homes. It's quite a job. Thus, a detailed report reveals the knowledge and sense of the one it has won, the first apostle, why. paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Is remnant. I'm celebrating this bill, and I agree with what we just saw here. I hope there will be widespread support at the council and the law, for the benefit of the public.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u80	V.E.G. President. First of all, I'd like to thank a 1st manifester. paritaprevir Oughtly the Ísleifsson of Ishphek, for his excellent speech herein, which was both brilliant and clear, as he had hoped and understood. Ólafur's slide is also good - looking, like a dog. The senator mentioned above in the report that follows the bill. This spring, we made up a central class bill, which was aimed at the removal of housing from an index account. That bill was issued here in the constitution roll call. Group and Piratar sat by. It then disappeared to the government and sits in a black hole there. I don't have much faith in the fact that despite the words of the Supreme Court, there will be any payment there. Secretary of finance in the budget debate that he wanted to have very little interest here. So I'm celebrating this bill and that's why I'm doing it. In 2013, when I was in a very different political place, we were fighting for this very matter, i.e. ... toputanimpair on your insurance policy here. Parts of that group have smiled with courage. They have gone somewhere else and, in fact, sold this idea for comfortable chairs like those behind me. But me and the media have persevered in our fight. - I wish, Mr President, that those who are watching this broadcast could see the interest reflected in the chamber here today. There's no candidate here. There's no Conspiracy here. There's no Pirati here. There's no lndependence here, except, of course, the highest. Mr. President, he's getting worse. But none of the representatives of these classes share in the discussion. Yes, it does. It shows up. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson is smiling very hard. I hope that's evidence that he wants to participate in the discussion, which is probably one of the more important things that will be done during this council. While this issue may be divided by 100 of you, the representatives of the media do not need to know that they are far from here. a home in the country is of great importance. I remember that in 2013, when my aktiv battle for this matter began, I put it this way in the campaign - and here comes a candidate in the hall and welcome him - that we could not be offered a single generation more of Icelanders, people who might have educated themselves in 30 years of age, worth a loan to 40 years old. They likely would pay the amount four times - the monthly amount would likely triple during that time - and after that, men could retire. [[Up front.]] This prospect is not what young people in Iceland want. It's believed we've got 20 of yours. a man abroad, the Icelanders who are either in school, who have finished studying, or who at least have no trust to move to Iceland. In the northern countries, where the largest group is, the housing bar is offered as much as 1.75%. Because at times this program has been held out, and somewhere else, that we cannot have as competitive interest as the North countries have, I would like to know that in the last two to three years, the Norwegian dollars has been reduced by 203/425%, even though it is only cutting back on the value of oil. Yet, there they live with a 1.75,2.5% increase in the housing bar. And insurance? No, she's not there. This case, very well worked, gives you the hope that there will be some who will be embarrassed to be interested or expressed interest in it because it is one of the biggest interests we have, the Icelanders, especially those who are building houses over our heads. If this bill is approved, it will also make Iceland more competitive for people to live and live because they will have the opportunity to do so in a similar way, as they now live in the North countries. The last time I checked, there was an increase in consumer science, or a 12-month inflation assay of approximately 2.8%, only rising, without minus 0.1% housing teams. The difference from year to year - I wonder if it will be 50 billion homes in this country. During the five years that have passed since the person standing here began to express himself on these matters and try to fight for some sort of improvement - I wonder if there are only 200 billion people, what the homes in the country have paid loan agencies beyond what others would have been. I wouldn't be surprised. The idea expressed here, and the suggestion presented here, to secure a price-separated growth in 2%, is very reasonable to me. It provides a measure of stability, and the bill in itself is a very good step in removing the insurance insurance from all consumer loans. That's why we have a natural - here comes a left green senator who doesn't want to - agree to overcome the dissatisfaction of insurance. As I say, this bill here is a very good one. I don't really believe it until I see that other senators, although they're afraid to participate in the conversation, can't or can't trust in it, don't see the sense when this bill comes to the committee, and they have the courage to handle the matter in some way because our young people and our country's homes owe it to us. We're now in winter with no contracts available. The mobile arm of the labor movement, we may be able to call it, the country has spoken of lower interest rates within the door - to - door talks. Of course, less interest is introduced into that discussion. Both lower interest rates allow the economy to pay better wages and lower interest rates, and thus lower loan payments, e.g. to buy housing, perhaps to involve the demands of unions, and possibly to enhance their modesty. In itself, as a representative of a party with a rational and reasonable argument at the tip, I don't understand why people don't handle these things. It is only a week or ten days ago that the harbor bank continued to maintain its normal control growth when we are coming down from the top of the economy. The logic of the money policy committees is just as incomprehensible as they have always been, because it doesn't matter what happens outside the Secret Bank. Whether economic growth is rising or falling does not matter. It doesn't matter whether the so - called inflation is high or low, which is controlled by the Navy itself in some respects; it doesn't matter what the environment says. Late bankers are only in cages like people who have immune systems that suppress their immune system. No one will ever find out about them, and they don't know what's going to happen outside of this farm, no thing seems to be created. That's exactly what it was. The other day, the secretary of finance told us about the budget talk. He said: "We don't always have all the tools we have, and we need them when we make decisions. I told him: "It's just that when you're reading the decrees of the Secret Bank as soon as he introduces the unchanged direct interest. They don't seem to have a few basic strengths, they don't seem to be. The hurt goes far beyond that. This thought, of having to be unchanged insurance, is entering the whole system as far as Iceland's Secret Bank. There are natural people with belts and bracelets, and the common people care, and they don't care. It is of great interest that has been discussed in this article on page 18. 4, that inflation testing is generally overrated. A few years ago, there was a discussion between them. Congress that we here in Iceland have a special examination of inflation testing in Iceland, how accurate it would be, and if it had, such as has appeared in America and appeared in talks before, been overrated. The difference is that in America, although inflation is overrated by measurement, it is not inflation in growing or maintaining growth very high at all. In Iceland, just one country, except one in South America, and one at the Mediterranean, if I remember correctly, it's going to come out right away. It'll only come back to the next bank announcement, raise the payments right away, borrow immediately. This situation here is a very good step toward getting a more just system. It is true that the borrower is always free. In itself, the relationship between creditors and creditors in Iceland is a sort of violent relationship. The banking system has the capacity for those who owe their mortgages, all their resources, and with one piece can determine the fate of a man for good or for bad. It's an intolerable situation to be in. I hope, therefore, that those members of the other classes here, perhaps not sharing in the discussion but listening to this discussion, find the courage of any of their psaltaries to join the way that is being proclaimed here and take this year with us; include 100 of you. Homes in the country and take on the side of this country that knocks on the bank every day and goes along with the youths who are now preparing for life ahead and who cannot imagine settling in Iceland for the sake of the system. We can't afford it, Icelanders, that these young people don't come home and work with us in building a future society. We can't afford it. We cannot another year or two beat our heads against a stone and refuse to handle these things like people. We can't. If the bank system in Iceland is not able to handle it and its rulers, we simply have to push it into a system where it can be handled and managed by people who are in charge of this task because it cannot go away. We cannot now see the loss of a well - educated young person who will not be able to settle down here and become like an outpost in the north, a low - paying area where people with good education and good prospects will not care and will not be able to settle. We can't afford it. This may be a step in strengthening this society to grow, and we can achieve the greatest wealth we can find in the present and that we can create human beings - the most valuable valuable thing we have - the condition that he can consider to settle down here. It would be good for a person to feel the courage to support this matter. This case is very good, Mr. President. I'm all for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u81	Mr. President. I think it's safe to make sure that me and the tourists of this bill agree that the interest levels in this country are way too high. Hopefully, all of us are ready to take the steps needed to reach the growth stage. It would also be very wish that we didn't have the environment here that makes us such a muleous insurance policy just the way we are. To say that, I don't think we agree very much on much of what it says. So as I look at this matter, I wondered, " I'm sorry for the characteristics of this discussion for so long, that it's never seen the root of the problem. ' Why is growth elevated? The lower interest rates in the North countries, housing interest, and the fact that there is no insurance policy there because it is forbidden by law. This is not because the conventions of these countries were so reasonable in setting peaks in the law as is suggested here, but because these countries have long ago dealt with the economic problems they faced, in the same way we have struggled with. They have learned from past mistakes and have improved and made sure that the growth rate once very high, including the public mortgage, is becoming a pair of people on what goes on and on the continent of Europe, for example. This wasn't solved by law. We've been trying to solve interest issues before. We've established a peak of growth by law, nothing went very well. They simply found other ways. What I'm not allowed to mention is, I think, in this bill's report, what would be the result of setting interest peaks by law. Will it reduce interest? No, it's not going to decrease interest. Here, for example. Max the level of insured interest rate, well. Does this not mean, in the environment of high interest levels, that unscrupulous loans will probably continue with very high interest? The high interest level remains a major problem. We have an unconvinced growth today on the mortgages, but they are only very high, and people are more likely to choose the rate of prices than the possibility of becoming free marketed in a free environment. In recent years, consumers are not cut off to borrow prices, they can take unsecured loans to purchase housing as long as they are being offered in a securable environment, but it is only more practical to take in securities, and so people choose valuable loans and have chosen them to an increased degree in recent years. Whether that is reasonable in the long term or not, it is impossible to say. We never know, no more than the previous day what incursion will be in progress, and of course, it has brought a lot of trouble on people's heads when inflation occurs, as it would normally do here at regular intervals. Once again, where is the root cause? She's in charge. It is in that we always lose control of our economy at regular intervals. Walking, inflation, inflation, inflation of loans, and indiscriminate interest on interest. I fear that here is once again, if you might use that metaphor, to prescribe the quantity of cancer. It's not gonna solve the problem. This will not solve high interest levels in Iceland, this will simply direct funding to the public housing bar in a different direction than it is today, a different channel than people have chosen to take their loans to. There will likely be forced on uncertain loans instead of on high interest, because we haven't dealt with the underlying problem. Why is growth so high? It is the economy, the unstable coin, the underlying problem we are always dealing with that our neighbors successfully dealt with, and it has yielded to a low interest level. I have to say as bad as I am, we're in insurance, as bad as I am at this high interest level that's right here, and I'm as agreeable as I am, many of the things that have been happening here that we can't offer long enough young people to this high interest level and this instability and we have to deal with the problems, that's here year after decade, decade after decade, offered some artificial solutions to the problems. The case is destroyed by some proposals to ban insurance, to place peaks, to test something else with dons and bans that have never worked for us. The only result of this has been that a large proportion of people believe that there is a solution to the insurance policy and not to attack the root of the problem, the question of why interest is so high. I'm no better with my mortgage, if it's forbidden to keep it in security, if I have to pay for that dizzy, high-security interest. In fact, I'm probably worse in the long run, because the nature of the prices of the credit loan has, of course, been here so that it spreads the pay loads of this enormously high interest level. Perhaps we would also see what we saw going on at a shelter market in the past, an increase in housing prices because of a favorable loan that may have been banned in some way later or what it was. Then it began to affect real estate prices whether it was a good loan on property or a bad loan on property. There are no rules and commandments in this regard. I wish that the carriers of this bill would bring us on our way to the root of the problem, to the root of this high interest level that we deal with, which is still the economy, the economy, the economy, the economy, and maybe this speck that we're going through somehow in this sea of turmoil. Our neighbors managed to solve this, each in its own way, and it created them with the same growth rate as in the continent of Europe. We can say that most of them have chosen to reject independent money policy, whether they look to Find who adopted Euro, Dana, who fixed the Danish crown gangs with euro or Sweden that actually follow Euro, we can say, in their money management. All of these countries have reached a very favorable interest level. This bill, however, is not the solution, and I'm afraid the damaging of this kind of thinking can be greater than the good intentions I know to follow this, i.e. if we are about to force people to e.g. Unconvinced loans on high interest rates because we have set some level on the level of high prices. You see, the very nature of the matter on the free market is that capital owners cannot be forced to lend money for certain loans. In the free market economy in which we live, we must not forget that on the other side often stands, e.g. The pensions, our own savings, that give these loans. Whether they lend over their heads to the real estate market or whether they choose to offer solely security loans because they have put interest on the loans or in what way this is looking for something balanced. All the experiments we have tried in the past in these areas have shown us that when we try to recommend and ban to deal with a problem that is fundamentally high in the country, it just doesn't work and often makes more problems than the problem we are trying to solve. This often, if we look to the past, has created some kind of black market with capitality. It's pushing funding into a different channel or getting into some shit mix, the excuse, Mr. President, to get past the rules of the law. We must face the fact that our foundation is always the same. We have high interest levels in this country. That is what we need to resolve; we do not need an invitation and a ban on the loan of interest.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u82	V.E.G. President. I always listen attentively when it comes to it. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson will discuss this matter. He will discuss them with knowledge and with a relatively open mind, unless he is trapped in the euro. That's why he was shooting past Norway when he listed the northern countries. He forgot Norway, who runs an independent money policy. I know the Norwegians are 15 times more than we are, they have some oil. But we also have a lot of resources that we can use for our benefit, so I don't think that there's any excuse to do anything just because the rules and regulations, like driving. A senator said, hadn't worked here before. He was talking about a free system, but the financial system in Iceland is a simple, competitive system. There is no freedom prevailing there. There is no competition there. There is not a single banker who knocks on a man's door and says, "Hey, you're a decent person at a decent age, has paid a little down, you get a better interest. Not a bit of a mouth. No way. So I ask. A senator whether he believes that the Norwegians have acted mistakenly by holding their coins. They still have this 1.75,2.5% interest in mortgages. It doesn't matter whether the Norwegian dollar has dropped by 201⁄225%, as it has done in the recent stages, or whether it rises. But I completely agree with what. A senator, of course, is what really matters. Humans have never really had the courage to enter into that matter with full force. How? We may not be able to agree on this with our names, but this does not mean that at some point we do not have to step in. I think this is a step in that direction, and I'm asking why. A senator why he finds it so impossible. [[The president calls.]] At least here is an attempt to infiltrate this system, which has been here like a dog chasing his tail for 40 years.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u83	President. Thank you. A senator and my names opposed. That's right, Norwegians have their own money policy and their own independent coin. In fact, their growing levels are much higher than those of their neighbors, whether in Denmark, Sweden, or Finland, when we look at the long - term growth. The increase in growth differences has been occurring after a very successful national performance; three to four years ago, there was little or no growth difference between these countries, but there has been an increase in the numbers of the Norwegian population in recent stages. It is some expense that is clearly associated with this swinging currency, which is fluctuated in their case like ours. That's right, we're in a financial fair. However, it would be wish more people were about the heat in this. It is good to remember, though, that maybe two decades ago, the camp loan fund was in control and, in effect, the only lender on this market. And then the banks came into him, so the pension fund, so there has been a marked increase in the number of companies giving mortgages and long - term growth. It's not too long since the real ones were here about 6%. I think that when I was looking at my first apartment purchase, they were at that time, 61.7.5% real estate interest, but now they're 3% and even less than, which, of course, is a big change from what was, although in international context they're very high. A major reason why we have a little competition in the financial market is that none of the Scandinavian banks have ever wanted to work here because of a small currency area, which is the biggest reason. That's one reason I've wanted to look at the euro. Hv. A senator says I'm attached to it, but I simply think it's just a reasonable solution, she would even. Open the financial market. [[The president calls.]] There are other things I can mention here. I'll find out better in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u84	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A member of the council for this answer, which was clear and as good as his hope and direction. I just want to go back to what I was talking about, a few people in the bank market, and how banks in Iceland usually act. Actually, it's a case I'm going to record more seriously in the next few weeks, but not just here in this short answer. There is also a legal issue in the Icelandic nation of 98.3% at a bank called Iceland's Landsbank, and now a community. This bank, when banking is turning into the fact that only people are in their home bank to build bases on Iceland's most expensive property. Why? It's completely covered. Yeah, there's supposed to be some backwork. Mr. President. A bank's recovery could be at the Redfarve where real estate prices are very low, so I'll give you an example. Could be on Patrecks, anywhere. She doesn't have to be here in the heart of Reykjavík. That's why I'm asking. Senator: Does he likely find it effective to reduce growth in Iceland during such financial institutions? I'm sorry. Are we likely to be effective in reducing growth? Actually, I'm taking a little off the pensions because it's exactly exactly what it is, as it were. A senator said that they have reduced the growth of the prices of the mortgage. Yet, these good funds have a fruit requirement that is far beyond what humans know elsewhere. Why? It may be because there are 25 or 27. There may be three or four of them. If I remember correctly, the cost is around 7 billion to 10 billion a year. You could probably cut half by merge, etc. While the financial systems in Iceland are like this, I ask. A senator whether he agrees with me in that part of the problem may be in that the financial system is too big and too uncertain. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u85	President. So I don't forget, maybe there's two things I'd like to say in a previous answer: For the first thing, it's not all impossible. But it is true that our housing staff is miscalculated. From spring on, we have an excellent conclusion that we do not see an example for such methods in other countries, and we should correct them. This is ridiculous, since it is surprising that we are raising all the housing facilities in the country, that one real estate will change hands as it is calculated today. I'm celebrating it, and it needs fixing. I can also honestly say that if I thought this solution worked, I would be among the couriers on this proposal; I know the intent is good. That's not what I'm criticizing. I just have conviction that this is not the solution. Few markets are, of course, a concern. Bank system costs are a concern. In part, the problem is that we have an unusually high taxation on the financial system that we need to fix. Regarding the construction of the National Bank headquarters, I am amazed that, like many others, it is being built so expensive in such an expensive place as a government owner. The stock holder must therefore answer their seats. But it is clear that if we were in the currency area where other financial institutions wanted to operate - this is what you hear repeatedly from banks that they avoid the risk of working in such a small currency area as the Icelandic dollars - we would probably be part of the coronary bank market as in other parts of the North countries, and we'll probably benefit from it in a much more practical financial system than we'll see.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-17-5.u86	Mr. President. I'd like to thank those who have put these words in their mouths and shared in the discussion and those who have been warmer or less. Price insurance has lasted way too long here in Iceland. Forty years next year. She's been standing for far too long without being roughed up or kept in any way. Also, the consequences have not been the result. We see treatment in the homes of the people. We also see treatment of national employment companies using such loan forms. They see families driven out of their homes thousands, seeing the individuals involved, fathers, mothers and children, tens of thousands together, driven out of their homes because of this arrangement. Here are four basic items taken up to provide this arrangement, some of which are minimal. These are: that indirect taxes do not fit into the index, each paying his taxes, each paying his own taxes, those who have borrowed money to pay no taxes for anyone else; that this housing is not like this greedy monster he is, and recharging to themselves year after year's tens of millions of dollars on top of homes and businesses from abroad; third, there is a reimbursement made by the government bill a few years ago about this poisonous chef who has been called, this an anthropite loan, or even loan to 40 years, that will be taken from people, and that loan time at 25 years ago. And finally, to put a roof on interest, in view of the fact that these so - called interest rates on price - secure loans are determined under extreme conditions, determined without any reference from abroad. There is no continuation of these decisions, not competition, not the maintenance of what is involved in pointing to foreign standards. But then, I'm sure, including. of the last speaker here, my ass. Víglundsson It's just that there's no restriction. It's supposed to be this way. What weakness, Mr. President, such discouragement, that I will not say any more. I'm totally paranoid of this presentation. Has a what? A senator did not notice that the Icelanders have mastered inflation? So let's face it, it's been a disaster for the past few years. Why, then, are the interest still so high? That's for human reasons. This so - called money policy committee at the Sensitive Bank is a natural stiff and inconsistency. And there are man - made influx seas that are known to prevent foreign investors from investing in the Icelandic stock market and that would cause interest to drop if these seas were lax. Hv. A senator acts as if he doesn't know anything about it. This is a natural preposterous approach which is not acceptable to the domestic interests and to the commercial services of the country. This bill is pronounced by two members of the council, all members of the Gangs and all members of the Central Party, and I thank all the party members. However, there is the possibility that other political groups living here at the General Assembly have shown no particular determination about the insurance policy. Mr. President. It is not possible to hide behind some high interest, behind the challenge here, though it may need to legalize on one of these growths, the growth of financial commitments that distinguish such as financial commitments of the most complex type, so called derivatives. That seems to be why. A senator who was here participating in the discussion. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, totally insensitive. I'm most likely that he did not read well the logic that follows in a report with the suggestions given here. Mr. President. I'll tell you, even though I didn't expect anyone else to do it. However, a senator who demonstrated his lack of self - control and discouragement in this case let me hope that this case will be supported here at the General Assembly in the interest of this country and in the interests of parents and children who have endured tens of thousands of homes. This isn't working anymore. You have to deal with this, and this bill is just one step in that direction. There will already be other bills in the Senate.
