ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u1	V.E.G. President. I would like to thank the non-inferiority team and team members of the House of forward, and welcome this phase.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u2	A respectable president. I recommend here for a bill to correct pregnancy break. The bill is written at the Ministry of Health. Its background is in short terms that then the Minister of Health, Kristján Þór Júlíusson, appointed in March 2016 a committee to work for a total review of law No. 25/1995, on advice and instruction regarding sex and pregnancy, on abortion and sterilisation. The committee returned a report in November 2016 to the minister's office, and it even proposed that the Commission report in November 2016. so that the law would be divided. So this is where I recommend a pregnancy break-in bill. Is the bill now presented in basics in accordance with the proposals of the Committee. The main proposal of the Committee was to make changes in the legislation so that a law guarantees self - custody and the self - determination of women over their own body. Based on this, the commission suggested that a pregnancy break be made free of the request of a woman until the end of the 22nd week of pregnancy. The committee also suggested a change in the use of words and the use of pregnancy in new legislation. Pregnancy breach is a term of pregnancy when a woman is broken by request, with either medical or medical treatment. To date, the procedure has been referred to as abortion in the law, but it is now suggested that this use of the word be discontinued and the term pregnancy cessation occurs. The concept of abortion has been considered to be a value, and similar uses of words are not known in our neighboring countries. A respectable president. I think it's important to rip up the short historical context of this case. As early as 1935, when the first abortion law was passed, there was a law of penalties from 1869 that completely prohibited abortion in the preparation of up to eight years of hard labor. Only if a woman's life or health were put at risk with continued pregnancy or birth, and under law, the hands of physicians were bound. They were forbidden to help women in this situation. Clearly, the law was used at the time, and it was broken. After much discussion about these matters in the community, the General Assembly agreed to No. 38/1935, a guide for women on prevention of pregnancy and abortion. You can reason with that, including In a historical context, Iceland had a somewhat liberal view of pregnancy discontinuation. The law remained the first in the world to allow pregnancy breakes on the basis of social conditions. Were sterilisations of women also allowed in situations where women were put at risk for survival or other serious health risks from becoming pregnant or in cases where there was a lower risk than would be expected for a woman to become pregnant. This is how from the beginning of this country it is necessary for female infertility procedures in the same law code as pregnancy breakers. This bill suggests that these sources will be discussed in separate laws. Over 40 years have passed since the current pregnancy break laws have been approved at the General Assembly. In effect, the decision of the council at that time was a compromise in view of the bill submitted at the World Council of 1973 based on the self - determination of women to make a decision regarding pregnancy. The bill suggested that pregnancy break free at the end of the 12 weeks of pregnancy. The bill was met with great opposition, and it made it possible that a current health and insurance minister appointed a committee of three men who were appointed to make changes in the bill with the view that it was more likely to be approved at the General Assembly. These changes were that women's sources were reduced to make their own decision on pregnancy loss, restrictions on the source and the ability to make decisions were partially transferred to two doctors or doctors and social workers. I would like to review only the principles of valid laws that have come under criticism, and the reasons why I feel a great need to put new laws in place with the goal of self - custody of women to make decisions about their own bodies. The principles that have come to bear the most criticism are regulations of 9th, 10 / 11, paragraphs 9 and 11. current track. These laws contain various conditions that all have to limit women's autonomy regarding pregnancy break-in decisions. In the 9th. The law is a requirement for a woman to have her pregnancy broken. The requirements are three: social, medical, and pregnancy due to rape or other criminal practices. As a result of social assessment, it should be taken into account whether the woman has given birth to many children at short intervals and is dosed from the last childbearing age, whether she is in poor household circumstances, or has serious ill health from others in her home, that the woman is unable to provide adequate care for a child, or for reasons that are well comparable to those mentioned above. This list does not reflect the circumstances that most women wishing for pregnancy break are facing today. Furthermore, conditional permission to break up pregnancy, with reference to social reasons in which there is a certain disrespect, may result in increased feelings of discomfort for female partners, as we should realize that the decision to break up pregnancy is one and that women who are in that situation will always be difficult. That decision will always be difficult. In this light and for these reasons, I suggest in the bill given here that any woman who feels she is moved to request a break, whatever the reason, will decide for herself. On the other hand, she will be offered and given the support she feels needs, both before and after the break in pregnancy. Under medical conditions, cases where physical or mental health risks are expected from continued pregnancy and delivery are considered at risk of birth defects, or have a serious disease due to genetic or foetal injury, or where the parent's ability to care and raise a baby is considered significant due to physical or mental illness. Here, let's stop for a moment and check Iceland's commitments under the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people. For the second two reasons that the current legislation allows for pregnancy break on medical grounds must be considered somewhat critical, especially in the context of Article 8. The agreement that deals with responsibilities in the state of consciousness and in countering standards, prejudice, and harmful practices associated with disabled people. I believe, in the context of this, it is unnatural to provide available permission to break a pregnancy because it is possible to lead a child with whom a woman is pregnant in some way to become disabled. A word of caution has been made in this regard, and I think it is strictly and probably to accept that criticism, since it is usually not the disability or impairment that makes a woman want to have her pregnancy interrupted, but it is the woman's assessment of each situation that makes her decision about pregnancy break. Therefore, the conclusion that pregnancy breakes can, in fact, always be based on social considerations, except in the few cases of pregnancy risks to a woman's life. The same viewpoint is behind criticism of the law's laws on which the authority is based that disease, physical, or mental, can seriously reduce the ability of a woman or a man to care for and raise a child. This is clear in the UN Convention on the rights of disabled persons in the Member States of the Convention, and it is necessary to provide disabled persons with appropriate assistance in fulfilling their duties as adult children, so I don't feel that it is right to expound a parent's mental or physical disability as a reason for making room for legal divorces. I believe that we can all agree that pregnancy cessation is always permitted if there are compelling medical reasons for the woman's life and health. Two. 10th par. A current law states that abortion should never be performed after the 16th week of pregnancy except for such reasons. The same article says that abortion is also allowed after 16 weeks is more likely to be teratogenic, genetics, or foetal damage. In this context, I remind you of my earlier words in the talk on page 8. The United Nations Treaty on the rights of disabled persons and the wide range of sources based on the fact that a fetus is considered to be predictableally disabled. I believe that by granting clear permission to break a pregnancy with the appeal shown in the current law, it is being sent a message that disabled people are not as important as what we choose to call healthy people. In other words, I strongly object that legislation contains a classification of the embryo's merit. This is in my mind to maintain prejudice against disabled people and standards for disabled people who are opposed to 8 g. The United Nations Convention. For one thing, I suggest that the law makes no distinction when it comes to a woman's request for pregnancy break. Whatever the circumstances, the decision remains for the woman. Crawl of current law, and now I'm talking about law 11. g., the absence of pregnancy because of social issues, unless there is a written argument for the report of two doctors or doctors and its social advisers, has also been highly critical. This includes a significant choice of the woman and an assessment of her own situation unless she agrees with two health care professionals. Thus, in this situation, freedom and security of a woman are in the hands of someone other than her own. I believe this law is a symbol of old - fashioned fate that does not hold up today's view of human rights and self - custody of individuals and women's freedom of choice. A respectable president. Although the bill I recommend here is not large, its contents include the very important rights of women, the rights for which they are to be self - conscious, where they are about the right of women to control their own bodies and to make decisions about their future and security. The goal of the law is to ensure that the autonomy of women wishing to be pregnant is respected by granting them safe access to health care according to the laws of the law. The laws of the law apply to women's right to pregnancy, as well as to pregnancy discontinuation and health care because of that, but not to situations where appropriate medical treatment is indicated, although abortion occurs. It also applies to the reduction of embryos in the law. The law clearly states that women are entitled to the most advanced health care facility at any given time to provide for pregnancy interruptions in accordance with the laws of the law, health care laws, patient rights and other laws as appropriate. In Comb 4. The bill considers permission to break the pregnancy; it suggests that if a woman is pregnant, she should be allowed to interrupt her pregnancy until the end of week 22 of pregnancy. It says that pregnancy breakes should always be performed as soon as possible and preferably before the end of week 12. This leaves no requirements for pregnancy discontinuation other than the quality of the service, i.e. who can perform pregnancy break and where. Two. The report shows the available data for pregnancy discontinuation after the end of week 22 of pregnancy. Pregnancy cessation is permitted only if the woman's life is compromised otherwise or if the fetus is considered irreversible. Evidence of two physicians should be provided that the foetus is not permanently viable. In the 5th. it is suggested that pregnancy be broken by the law of a girl whose youth is illegal because of her request without the approval of parents and guardians. It should be noted that the agent of children and the Ministry of Justice emphasized that this law would stand in the law and base his stand on the gradual rights of children to influence their own lives, which would reflect that. in the United Nations Children's Covenant. According to Article 6. the bill should be accessed to the health care provider for the implementation of pregnancy episodes in all healthcare professionals should be ensured until the end of week 12 of pregnancy. This is with emphasis on equality as well as for women living in rural areas who do not have to travel long distances and experience even more pressures and disturbances in their successes than is unavoidable when considering the effects of pregnancy in general in women's lives. 7th and 8th. The bill is provided with regulations for the implementation of pregnancy and educational and counselling procedures. Pregnancy cessation by medical treatment is suggested in a hospital or clinic under the guidance of a specialist in the field of gynaecology. This includes any pregnancy break requiring further medical intervention such as anaesthesia. Pregnancy discontinuation will then be permitted at the medical clinic where surgeons monitor until the end of week 12 of pregnancy. This refers to clinics like clinics but also clinics for independent experts. Before pregnancy break, the partner should inform the woman about the risks of the procedure. Medical reasons for pregnancy interruption should be considered specifically. However, if the woman decides to undergo pregnancy break, it is required that this should be recorded in the patient file. As a result, it is considered that this value is comparable to that of the patient when the patient rejects treatment. Women's right to receive supportive treatment with an appropriately qualified healthcare professional is particularly indicated before and after pregnancy break. All counseling and counseling shall be given in an impartial manner, based on experience and respect for human rights and the guidance of human dignity. This is very important, since advice and education by a healthcare professional can have a major impact on the pregnancy cessation decisions of a woman, e.g. likely to indicate a predictable disability or impairment. The need for education and counseling to be based on knowledge that is contrary to knowledge, which is internationally accepted in the light of individual circumstances based on studies, established methods and experience. The evidence of respect for human rights and human dignity refers not only to the human rights of women who wish to be pregnant but also to other members of the community, such as those who are disabled, as is the case with 8. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disappointment As with the current legislation in the bill, health care due to pregnancy is required to be free of charge for all women who are insured by the health insurance laws. A surgeon's office should then include an electronic unique pregnancy-clad registry. The violations of the law should be carried out in accordance with the general legal requirements and the health care professional legislation as appropriate. Extensive consultations were made at all levels of this matter. At the beginning of the work of the Commission on the General Accountability of the Law, the Commission publicly requested reviews of current law and received 27 comments. The results of the Commission were based on many aspects of professional reviews and are quite accurate in the bill. By the time the bill had been completed, a group of professionals were consulted, and thereafter they were revised to publish a bill in the board's consultations. In this process, 11 envelopes came from organizations and organizations and 40 from individuals and are attributed materially to the bill. The request for a break-out on the request of a woman until the end of week 22 of pregnancy was prominent in the number of reports received. Icelandic obstetrics and gynecologists, Landspiral, Iceland's Light Hygirdor Association, National Institute of Feminists, Iceland's Women's Women's Rights, and a number of experts, including the U.S.A. in the field of health science, this was suggested by careful logic guided by this bill. The clergy emphasized two things. Most professionals discussed that certain foetal defects were not detected until late gestation or after the 20 week wasteer, so it is important that women could make a decision regarding pregnancy rupture until the end of week 22 of pregnancy. The cheers all emphasized how difficult this decision was for the women and often for their mates. It was their professional assessment based on long experience that limiting these rights was a very bad step. Other professionals made it clear that it would be extremely important to allow pregnancy to be prolonged because the women in whatever worst social situation are often the women who do not realize that they are pregnant until very late have difficulty approaching a pregnancy crisis because of the circumstances in which they are in, possibly marriage, or relationship. These may be potential victims of honor crimes, rape, or human halls. Some may find it difficult to approach the ministry because of language difficulties, development inhibition, or other causes. A respectable president. If this bill is legal, there is a great change, which is designed to ensure self - custody for women of their own body and their own future as regards pregnancy. This change aims to ensure that women are assured of a safe access to health care providers asking them to have a pregnancy break until the end of week 22 of pregnancy. Hence, the bill has mainly increased rights for women. I have now explained the main subject of the bill, but at the end, I want to mention a few things that I hope the discussion here at the Senate Hall can be based on. It is vital that we keep the facts in mind of this matter. Prenatal medicine experts measure the development of an unborn baby for months, weeks, and days. For this reason, no uncertainty about the criteria under consideration is referred to at the end of Week 22 when a woman is walking 21 weeks plus six days. This is the 22nd week in which a woman is 21 weeks away plus no day until 21 weeks and six days. The bill is based on the end of week 22, or when a woman is walking 21 weeks and six days. These are the standards that experts in the field use, and it is important to conduct in the discussion. According to experts in this field, pediatrics are generally not called to birth on premature infants unless the embryo has developed at least 23 weeks or at the beginning of week 24, as there is no chance of survival for the child. Preterm infants who survived after birth in the middle of the 24th week here are numbered on the fingers of one hand. So the range suggested, that is the end of week 22 or week 21 plus six days, is at a time point in which foetuses are not tried to be rescued within medical care. This is a fact that it is important for members of the council to be aware of. In this context, I'd like to quote the words of a fine obstetric and gynaecologist who appeared during the discussion during the days, by permission of a president: ▪ One thing is clear: Women will always get pregnant at the wrong time, with the wrong person, in the wrong condition, unintentionally, because the condom was ripped off or cast up the pill. A respectable president. Hv. Senators. I'd like us to stick to this topic's discussion. This bill's contents are not about events when a woman in expectation of a child, starting 22 weeks, loses it because of her premature death. That's not the subject here. This is the case when a woman makes the difficult and difficult decision to end pregnancy because she has made the decision either by herself or by those whom she decides to trust and rely, whatever the reason for that decision. So I ask, " Who better to appreciate their situation than the woman herself? ' Is the Lawgiver better qualified to divide into groups the reasons that a woman must meet in order to be able to walk about freely and safely? Is that better for two doctors? Is there a better name for a doctor, a social worker, and a lawyer? It is my conclusion, but not just my conclusion, that a committee of my predecessors in the health - care minister's seat, is that the woman was the one who should make that decision. It was also the result of a number of experts and associates, and it was so clear that the review of this case revealed the clear attitude of professional people in this regard. In a similar vein, a woman's decision was to be her wife, to make that decision, and to have it until the end of the 22nd week of pregnancy. That decision is not an easy one, nor will it be trivial for women. Let us remember that. A respectable president. I'll allow myself to suggest that the bill be after the 1st. Refer to the welfare committee and to the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u3	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the review of this important matter. I would like to start by saying that I fully agree with the self - determination rights of women in this matter. This does not change the fact that there are interesting friends and the highest. A minister came in to it, as it were. But what I especially want to focus on in my answers is the emphasis on what is being eliminated, i.e. that the classification, whether of a disabled fetus or of a contemporaneous abortion, is being eliminated, and it is transferred to women's self - determination rights regardless of the screening of the fetus. That's where I come to what I want to talk about, i.e. Screening. We have rightly, I believe, got a reputation for being a society that places tremendous importance on screening, and we push that pregnant women are more than not. I'd like to start by asking the highest. Minister: Was this culture of ours, as it were, discussed with the making of this bill? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u4	A respectable president. So it is not to be concealed that the coverage of screening is in some respects closely related to the bill under consideration. But I'd like to say it first, because of that. A senator speaks of the importance, the complete elimination of the classification of the people, the way I mean disabled people on the one side and the other, the pernicious. We are also eliminating the differences between different species of social reasons, i.e. We leave the decision with the woman where the decision belongs and where it belongs. But as for the tests, I have requested to review specifically how we operate screens in Iceland. Then I'm talking about oncologists, but not as much as screens, fosters, and reasons behind it, what professional and healthy historical evaluations there are to the foundation. I believe we should keep that question awake and have assigned a group to process that position.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u5	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer, and I'm glad to hear that this is in a process because it is totally important, no matter what the bill is being discussed here. We seem to be getting drunk, and I've been talking about this before, instead of using the technology we have to direct the various services, we're putting all the individuals under the same hat. We use technology to step backwards. Then I'd like to use this opportunity in the second round to ask the highest. Minister. I know that countries such as the Netherlands, Canada, and other countries have very free legislation in these areas. Is there any statistical evidence that covers a number of pregnancy breakes? Have there been any mutations in the area where the legislation has been lifted? Anything we can have in mind and, in fact, to answer those who might consider women to be more likely to take advantage of this as a method of contraception?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u6	A respectable president. According to these figures and the data given to me and the Committee and specifically discussed with the development of the report to the minister at my time, there is no evidence that there is a later pregnancy break in the course of Canada, where there is no limit, or in the United Kingdom and the Netherlands, where it is similar to what we propose here, there is no evidence that there is a later pregnancy break in pregnancy, or a multiple pregnancy break. So there's no clue about either one. On the other hand, I'd like to agree with it as a dog. A senator says, in many ways we will be able to manage it into all our legislation and all our activities, not only in health care but in general society, that if we want to be diversity in society, it must be reflected in legislation, in regulations and in the implementation of laws and, including, the procedure of the law. in the health system. Is it certainly not unnecessary, since a wide variety of communities are a better society? However, we need to live up to our name in that it too is reflected in our work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u7	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister over the tour. I have one question: has the highest. Ministers do not worry that this change, extending the duration of an abortion, will become new by choice, e.g. after 20 weeks of waste when the child's gender can be known?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u8	A respectable president. As indicated in my answer to a question why. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín's Friðriksson Fridik's case is no indication of this in those countries around us, where this range of ages allows for some sort of mental rupture. I don't think there's any further cause for concern here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u9	Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. V.E.G. A minister mentioned laws in other lands. In Britain, I think I'm definitely right, it is forbidden to know the sex of a child until a so-called delay has passed. I'm saying I'm not following this bill, but has this occurred in the opinion that it will be forbidden to know the sex of a child until this deadline, 21 weeks and six days have passed?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u10	A respectable president. According to my information, the British law prohibits referring to gender as a reason for pregnancy break. But so is it, and I'd like to pray. A senator to be aware of this, because I need to get better information about it, that a pregnant woman can always seek information about sex with a private woman, although it is forbidden to use it and refer to it as some sort of argument for pregnancy breakers. That's the way it is in Britain. However, we developed the bill under consideration that it was very important that it was clear that the self - determination right was clear and that the argument was the woman.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u11	Mr. President. We are here discussing a very large and large subject of intense emotion and strong opinions about both, or perhaps everyone else, perhaps not two of these matters. I'd like to first say that there's a great deal of joy in this bill that clearly says about women's self - determination, that he is uncircumcised in these matters. I think it's extremely important that we do so for knots. This also refers to the time when a pregnancy break is permitted, or a pregnancy breaker is decided by a woman. [[The president calls.]] It was noted in the past that in some places there was no particular time limit. Has the minister examined whether he should even go further and have no time limit? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u12	A respectable president. First of all, I agree with what. A senator says that it is long ago time for these laws to be updated to the present time. They're 43 years old and they're actually all of us, Icelandic society - I don't say they're embarrassing, but it's at least it is absolutely time for us to take them up to modern times, to whom we would like to be foremost among the nations in equal rights. Hv. A senator specifically asks about these boundaries and whether it was considered a time limit. So it is to say that this was not particularly considered because the report that came from the Committee contains this set time limit and we at the Ministry thought that it was not right to get involved with the findings of the committee, which included certain arguments. But in Canada, with no time limit, it was up to me to say that it was against a constitution where the law was the way it was done and that it was canceled. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u13	President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Given the fact that a woman has an uncluttered right to break a pregnancy, it is also very important that a woman has access to education and assistance to make decisions that she really wants to make, and does so on the right grounds, she is well informed whether she decides whether to break a pregnancy. True, there are laws in the bill on these subjects, but I would like to first emphasize what an important factor this is. Is it not certain that this will be a high priority, and this will be a real help and education that women can enjoy?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u14	A respectable president. I agree with the importance of that. Of course, this is shown in the bill itself, such as why. A senator points out. The law is expected to go into effect six months after it is agreed, and the relevant people will have the time needed to improve the quality of education. But I'd like to mention it here, too, because now it's time to go. The welfare committee, I believe, is very important for the committee to give this particular consideration because we may feel the change, i.e. to ensure that the community is under the name, that women can use this self - determination right and have all the information and support they need in order to enjoy their rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u15	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Health Minister for this bill, which is an update to almost a half century old bill that discussed abortion. I agree with what's been said here, that it's the self - determination of women's rights, which I think are extremely important. It's really emotional, and we're not going to some sort of class. Just the word, changing from abortion to pregnancy break, says a lot, and can start some questions. You have read both articles with and at a convention in this regard. But last year, I'd like to come to my deadline. What exactly supported them rather than going down or even higher? Were you looking to other countries? [[The president calls.]] What was it that eventually led you to make that decision, 22 weeks?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u16	A respectable president. First, I want to correct what was said in my earlier words. On February 1 of this bill, there is a bill in the bill that the law is about to take on, and then it's on the bill. Hv. A senator especially pauses at the decision to make 22 weeks. As is the case today, pregnancy cessation occurs throughout this period, i.e. Until the end of week 22. What we're saying in this bill is that it is certain that the decision is all the way to the woman, not just until a certain time, and then it receives some kind of specialist or committee or anything else, but that decision will never be taken from her in the process and during the period below. However, just as it is in the current law and in the national law around us, it is so that if a woman's life is threatened by pregnancy, of course, she will accept another argument. [[The president calls.]] But that's what we're talking about. When the decision is made, it's always the women.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u17	A respectable president. Then I'd like to stop by the fifth floor. which refer to the self - determination of girls under 18 years of age to have a pregnancy break, without parental help. I just want to come to see what it's like to think about the fact that it's the parents'responsibility to support their child. I agree with your self - determination rights, but I have to find that when a young girl goes to an abortion or breaks a pregnancy, she needs a lot of support afterward. How is this related to parents'responsibility to their child? Is it not proper for parents to know about their child's decision, even though they cannot intervene in it?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u18	A respectable president. As noted in my background, it was strongly emphasized that this child's right to make a gradual decision and that both the Ministry of Justice and the Children's Office of Justice were very clear on this. But we expect it to be in the bill, and I expect the committee to take a special look, to ensure that the child is supported both ahead and after this procedure, in line with other health care services, as well as the delicate and complex decision that is being made. I suppose, because we are involved in contracts, international contracts, etc., about the rights of the child, that is really the viewpoint of the above. Of course, we need to be sure, like water. A senator points out, however, that there is no way to ensure that the child is given all the information and all the support he needs. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u19	A respectable president. We will discuss the woman's authority to have her abortion until the 23rd week of pregnancy, until the end of week 22. I would have long believed that I would be standing in this highest speaker of the country and doubt that even if we are not authorized to have a child killed after 22 weeks of pregnancy, we have no self - determination. It should be noted that we are talking not just about an unborn child at that time but about an imperfect child in the womb. There's a little girl in the nursery at Olafurvær. She was born after the 22nd week of her pregnancy, barely. That was a premature birth. It was fortunate that the midwife was next door to the mother and the little premature infants to the hospital. Now she's two years old at the school at Ólaafsund, and there's nothing wrong with her. There is one thing very positive in the bill that I find special reason to clean up, from the time the law is from 1975, which is separating sterilization from the actual abortion. But to have one way or another, we women don't know before this time that we're walking with a child, and we're about to decide if we want to have a baby or not, I have to point out that in 2017, an abortion was induced by 1,044. No woman for any reason refused an abortion. Not alone. Does this suggest that our own body has been removed from the right of self - determination? Or what is being done by running against this disgusting bill? I'm sorry, this is emotionally important to me. I think it's moral wrong. I'm gonna have a drink of water, it's a big heart thing, it's the first time I'm shaking in the speaker's hand, it's now. I'm going to get to something else. I'm expecting a little grandchild. When the mother was 18 weeks pregnant, I learned that this was a young boy who was supposed to be Tristan, who was alcoholized in his mother's womb. What is his right to life? What is the right to life for the unborn child? Is the adjustment period not enough? We've been compared to 12 weeks. We've been inducing abortion here without hesitation until week 16. We've taken this into account if a woman has been raped, if a woman has an excessive social problem. If something like that occurred, we have not refused an abortion. We are developing four abortions every active day of the year, compared with 1,044 induced abortion in 2017. I don't think this bill is a sign of life. It does not seem to matter which reasons are involved up to week 23. It has nothing to do with whether the unborn child in the womb is healthy or not. The woman's sexual freedom and her right to have her own body shall be put in the background of all the child's right to life, just completely. It's amazing. It would be all right to get some argument about what causes this in the light of the 2017 abortion. What is the cause of the refusal to have an abortion? Why should we risk such an incident? Let us give a small example. Let us give examples of what we know from our community about a delightful couple who are expecting a child. All of a sudden, a woman is in trouble, and she's 20 weeks pregnant. They were going to have the baby. It was happiness. But something happened, maybe adultery, who hasn't heard that word? Suddenly, the woman becomes angry and says: "No! I'm not having a baby with you. No, I don't want to see this. I'm going to have an abortion. What's the child's right? Why do we speak as if life was not important? . And how is it that there is nowhere to discuss how we can put our arms around women who are really in trouble and who are helping them to have their baby, for it is the greatest gift of God that we will ever receive when we receive our child. And, of course, this is the decision, to have your child destroyed, a disaster - indeed one of the most terrible things any mother has to go through. That way, when it is almost necessary, I aim at either because the fetus is made so that it has no life expectancy for it, and it would be just plain and complete wickedness to give birth to the world or that its mother is out of danger. A respectable president. I'm not going to go into the details of the letter of the law in terms of the current abortion time frame, so there's no need. In fact, not even the current law has been set in motion toward the wishes of women who prefer to have an abortion after 12 weeks of pregnancy. Hard? Yeah. Is it difficult to have an abortion? Yeah. The one standing here knows exactly what she's talking about. But that does not change the fact that I feel that we are demeaning the right to life. I feel that we are beinglittled that the 22nd week of the embryo has become a small person. Seriously, the fetus is a small person entitled to life. And if she's never to exist, if she's not here, I also feel that it could have been viewed a little earlier, because we know from week 4 to week whether we're pregnant or not. But I don't think we women are allowed to think that we're completely unaware of it when we get pregnant. I think it's disrespectful to us women. This new bill describes the concept of abortion as being used in the current law. And in a report with a new bill at the top. The health minister of Svandís Svavarsdóttir sees the concept as valid and more appropriate as pregnancy break. But why? Why pregnancy break? It's an abortion, and that's all. Why put it on another dress? We're talking about abortion and nothing more. When we're talking about the spontaneous rights, a respectable president, I respect my sexes as much as I do myself. I don't expect them to be shallow, as I said before, that they don't know what the children will be like. I'm not going to let them know that there are methods of contraception either. Nor will I expect them at any point to have to endure the rape and have nothing to say about it, because that is the one time they don't have the right to themselves over their bodies, that is, if they are taken by force, rape or so on. Otherwise, most of them decide whether they have sex or not, and we also know how the children come into existence. It's like the highest. A health minister earlier pointed out that this is emotionally charged. And we're going to go ahead, just because we want to say that we're the people who walk ahead and offer women the greatest sexual freedom on earth or whatever else. I don't care what his name is, I only watch a 22 - week - old fetus. I'm just looking at it. I just watch how it is then killed; when it is injected poison, and it is put to death in the womb to produce birth in two days, and when it is wasted, the terrible situation has even come up that the child was not yet dead. I'm just saying, I just feel like we're shooting back to -- I don't know what time - spread time, when children were unwanted. They were just evicted. I say, "I think it's easier for us to put our hands together and to put our arms around the women and the girls who really want to have their baby, but for social reasons or problems, they can't, but they're forced to make the miserable decision to have their baby destroyed. " That's where we should come in. That's where we ought to be supporting. That is where we should set a good example and not forget that in 2017, 1,044 abortions, four abortions each day of the year, and no women, were denied the operation of that operation. Not alone. My conclusion is: It is right and duty to separate sterilization and abortion, but in other respects the rules that we have had so far have worked perfectly. That's at least Have no doubt that after 16, 18, 20, or whatever the 22 weeks, whether I or you suddenly think that the child we walk with will not be welcome today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u20	A respectable president. This was made clear in the matter of why. A senator who spoke before me, Sæland Gond, that we have a rather different opinion about most of the issues involved. I must admit it, a respectable president, because I appreciate it. Senator, I sincerely hope that our discussion on this important bill is not on the subject of the above discourses. I would like to encourage all of us who are going to take part in this discussion to think of the people outside following this discussion and who have been through it and have all kinds of feelings. I, a respectable president, have full respect for the feelings. A senator has, but feelings are all sorts of things. In this discussion, I think we need to focus on looking at the bill and the facts of the matter, but don't like springing babies in the womb or anything like that in this case. That's what I'd like to say. A senator on the law, but she said that she felt that the law as if it were today was working perfectly. Yet, I cut to the ear. A senator seemed to have a lot to do with checking the number of break-offs each year. Today's laws date from 1975, which means they're older than me. It discusses specific reasons for allowing a pregnancy break in that legislation to be called an abortion. It speaks of situations that I would have thought that most of us could agree not to be in our circumstances today and at times. A senator brought in the very nature of the law today, not in accordance with the law. For one reason, I ask, " Count who." A senator that the reason is not valid so that we review the law and review its underlying factors regardless of the week we are talking about the time limit? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u21	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. This woman will never really talk about this matter any different than she did right now. It speaks of me as having things to do with the law. There was only one thing I said to be a measure of research and to be true, that is, in fact, separating sterilizations from abortion, so it's not at once the same bill. I don't know how much it was when I was talking about 1,044 abortion in 2017, I was just talking about information from the surgeon general that showed that there were four abortions a day throughout the active days of 2017, and no women refused to have an abortion. So I'm afraid I'm going to turn this up to the counter, which I know may not be quite fashionable, asking: "How much do we have to give up? Don't you think that would do the right thing, a respectable senator? It doesn't matter how this case is viewed, a 22 - week - old fetus is, in fact, an alcohol - free human being, so to speak. There is no time for me to minimize the grief and problems facing those facing this operation. However, I am referring to the unborn children who might be born if this bill did not succeed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u22	A respectable president. In a paper with the bill on page 18. 4 shows that the 9th paragraph. the current law is three conditions for an abortion, as it is called in that law, i.e. that they are a result of social, medical, or pregnancy due to rape or other criminal practices. In effect, the text shows that this description of social conditions specified in the current law is hardly applicable today in 2018. That's why I'm asking. A senator would not have a reason to change that. You might wonder, " What might we have as normal reasons why a woman can wish for pregnancy? ' I fear that if we went to such a list and tried to put ourselves in all the possible and unusual incidents that might arise, the result of this bill will be that the woman's circumstances are best regarded by the woman but not us here, the Lawgiver. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u23	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists again. Hv. A senator speaks of these three conditions that are set out in the current law on why they can have an abortion. I don't know that these reasons are any changes in a new bill. Secretary of health. This period is only 22 weeks longer. It is still a matter of social hardship, medical, and rape. Although we know the social growth, it doesn't change the fact that I've said exactly what I have to say about this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u24	A respectable president. I have to agree with what. paritaprevir My daughter Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir over how we'd like to discuss this bill. We need to be careful. Many people are watching this discussion, women who have even a few. has a difficult social situation, and in these rare cases, women who have had their pregnancy break up later, who are listening, who have made this difficult decision based on current law, so I'm going to ask all of us to be careful in our discussion. Hv. paritaprevir Sæland Goland went around a lot of women, that the bill made us poor women, and that she had special respect for women. I feel that she demeans us women by not relying on us for making this amazingly difficult decision herself. To believe that we jump to this decision because of some simple problem in a relationship or other such is absurd. I'm incredibly willing to take this discussion about where we would seriously apply these conditions to our own decision-making rights. It's supposed to be our debate at the Congress Hall. So I want to ask you why. A senator whether it is simply - she called this bill repugnant - against the whole bill or if it is available to discuss the number of weeks I hear each week. A senator is most concerned. As noted earlier, these laws are gone, and changes in many other aspects of the bill that are not associated with that number of weeks of time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u25	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yes, I have respect for women and, yes, I believe we'll figure it out by 12 weeks whether we're pregnant or not. And, yes, I think it's a nasty bill and, yes, it's morally hurtful and just damaging to me. And, yes, I count this time, 22 weeks, completely below all the caves. And, yes, I think the child's right to life is completely trampled on by this bill. And, yes, women's self - determination rights were perfectly respected in 2017 when no woman was denied an abortion. You might say, "Why, why? " Senator, does this frame have to be cleared so badly, as is now suggested?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u26	A respectable president. Simply put, there are various women who have no perplexity in the matter. paritaprevir Inga Sæland, the women you believe should always be aware that they are pregnant for these 12 weeks. I simply wondered, " Do I feel bad? ' A senator is required to establish a final limit? Shall we talk about it? What about a woman who is in a lot of drug abuse and in no condition to realize that she is pregnant and later realizes and has no authority to do so, will, strength, energy, or health to have a baby? What about the 13-year-old baby who becomes pregnant? These women do not realize it exactly for 12 weeks and need to have a word of caution in other women during the council because we respect their own decision and will. We can discuss this number of days, but we need to avoid talking down to women who are looking at us who have made this disgusting decision. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u27	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the second answer. A woman named Tani, not a drug addict as a boy. A senator spoke of how many years later she realized that she was pregnant and needed help, was denied abortion in 2017, including the young girl, not the one who was raped. A woman in 2017 was denied the abortion. Not alone. [[Up front.]] I can add something else. Yes, I would like to see the law established that 12 weeks would be a principle, though something else would come out when it was better to consider that we will always have exceptions from the principle. But, yeah, yeah. A senator, 12 weeks will be in my mind more than enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u28	A respectable president. Yes, it is an emotional discussion. But I sometimes get very worked up, and I feel like we're talking down to women about women's self - determination rights, which this bill underscores. Hv. paritaprevir Sæland Goland said that women all knew by week 12 that they were pregnant. I have read it and confirmed by a midwife that there is one child born a year, a perfect child, that women have not known that they are pregnant, and that there is not necessarily a woman who was a bad health, only healthy women. It's always been that way. I don't fully understand this presentation here, I think we need to be perplexing, rather perturbing about various regulations in the bill than talking down to women like that. Hv. A senator wrote that the bill was based on women's ability to have a pregnancy break on social evidence. Then I'll think so. A senator needs to read the bill a little better, for it is the entirely self - determination of women to break a pregnancy. But I would like to ask them: Do you just want to ban pregnancy break in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u29	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen are required to direct inquiries to the president or to call or name other members of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u30	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. What's been marked by the answers I've got from my sexes is that I'm talking us down, I see women talking down, but I've never heard one of them ever talk about me speaking for the child's rights, not one. But, yes, it's true. paritaprevir Signý Signiy pointed out, I talked about social rights in the new law. It was a mistake, for I have previously said that it was the woman's interest when she preferred to have an abortion until the 22nd week of her pregnancy. But no matter how we're talking about this, that we're talking about things and having the choice of words and making it polite on the other or those notes, I can just say it from the bottom of my heart: I've never really talked about anything in this high Council that's stabbed me in the heart like this bill. Never. It is also that way for many people, not just women in society, but Icelanders in the community who feel that this is morally wrong. And that we dare to lay this up, there are a lot of people who don't have one extra word for it and I'm one of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u31	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Sæland Goland didn't quite answer my question, whether she thought all there was to be was to prevent pregnancy break in Iceland. But I would like to mention one parable. A 42 - year - old married woman, a three - year - old mother who becomes pregnant, does not intend to be pregnant because of her status or health. She needs to see a doctor. She now has to meet with a social worker who might even be her daughter, who is teaching her about contraception and sexual education. She may have had sex for 30 years even. This is the woman who does not have the self - determination right to have an abortion today. [[Up front.]] But I would like to make this question a matter of count. paritaprevir In Inga's Sæland Land, that the 1,041 - four abortions that were performed last year, perhaps someone should have received a no? [[Taken to four.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u32	A respectable president. Thank you. Senator Halla Signý for the counter-sponsore. In fact, I was overlooked earlier in a previous answer that I thought 12 weeks would be completely sufficient. At no time have I said that abortion should be banned altogether. I've had enough trouble looking ahead. But taking this illustration of the 42 - year - old woman who didn't trust her to have a baby, I think it's so amazing that I can hardly talk about her, that she would just fall on her daughter as some sort of counselor. What the hell is that song? This woman would naturally have an abortion just right away, even in 2017, since no woman was denied an abortion in 2017. [[Foreground on: No.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u33	Mr. President. We'll discuss a bill to legalize a pregnancy break from a health minister. At the beginning, I'd like to discuss only the concept of a pregnancy break. Pregnancy breach is a new word that has been used for a time instead of abortion. This concept is not undisputed, and some have said it is a beautiful hideout. It has to be said that, as with this new term, the focus has been removed from the fetus and is completely transferred to the mother. This is a term that gives reason to believe that what is really happening is being softened. It is stated under the pretext of human understanding that the woman's self - determination is respected. It is presented in a long report, so it is difficult to make a reference to a particular point in the bill when a severe defect of the fetus is discovered, while the change involves a very long period of abortion and the need for no other than the mother herself to make a decision about abortion. It is here that I know of an attempt to go beyond what is right, first of all because the fetus that can be destroyed is made into a person who could live if he was born and thus become a person of legal significance. Second, the mother's power over the life of a baby in the womb is determined by the fact that the baby is part of the mother and not by an independent person. In current legislation abortion is permitted until the end of the 15th week of pregnancy. The bill suggests that a woman will be given full control of whether she gives birth to a child until the 22nd week of pregnancy, regardless of the reason for the woman's will. Thus, abortion is being authorized by week 21 and day 6 of pregnancy. That's when the baby's grown up for a long time. In modern times, medical science can save preterm infants as far as the 23rd week of pregnancy. So it is a matter of days between trying to save life and killing it. But when has a fetus become a living person who has the right to life? When does a baby in the womb have human rights? To argue that human rights do not exist until birth is, in the highest order, a dangerous teaching. We take human rights seriously and welcome at this time the 70th anniversary of the United Nations Convention of Human Rights. On page 18. 5 In the bill, according to Article 3. The United Nations Declaration of Human Rights states that everyone has the right to life, freedom, and immunity. Then one asks himself, " Where is the justice of an embryo that is ripe for life? ' Never forget, then, that there is always the possibility of turning an unwanted pregnancy into a source of joy to those who cannot bear a child. Adoption is an advantage that is important in this situation. Women who decide to give their child at birth and who have given it the middle class have provided the bill, but women who give their child at birth have not received any government support. Mr. President. I respect the woman's self - determination to make a decision about her own body, to make a decision to end the life of an unborn child. Whether a decision is made regarding birth defects, disease, or unwanted pregnancy, it is far from easy. Often, circumstances may be complex, and those are difficult to put into them. I believe the woman can make an informed decision after professional counseling. Finally, her decision, the choice that she must make, is one that she must live with. However, we must be careful that the woman's decision must never be realized, e.g. after the recommendation of the 20th week of pregnancy, where gender can be known, the completion of pregnancy should be considered. Remember, too, that our community depends on the variety of men and women. There the disabled have the right to live and receive proper care. Opinions may vary between the right and the right to break up or to have an abortion among Christians. Many feel that it is simply a violation of the fifth commandment: 'You shall not murder.' From the start of the abortion discussion that led to legal advice on the subject, the church has not wanted to go as far as some other Christian religions do and maintain the view that no abortion should be allowed, even though many members feel it should be. However, there are not many declarations made by the National Church and its founders on these matters. In 1987 the Council adopted the following resolution, with permission of the president: A basic element of all human rights is the right to life. That requirement must be made to the State that it protect human life and the public witness witness about the weekend. A law that, in effect, makes the unborn life justified violates the fundamental purpose of Christianity that each individual has the right to life from the beginning until death is brought to its door in a natural, unregullable way. A report with the above approved states under the permission of a president: ▪ The Council of Churches considers it absolutely necessary to legalize the sanctity of human life, to ensure its rights before and after birth. Mr. President. Is this the bill of the true Christmas government? I don't support it. With Icelanders, we do not need the most liberal legislation on abortion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u34	President. I have to admit that there's something eating my blood about listening to a man coming up here in a pit and talking about how I'm gonna make my decisions about my life and my body, but I'm just gonna try to calm it down a little bit and be perfunctory as I can. Hv. A senator here speaks of the human rights of an unborn child, which is based on all standards not becoming viable. Then I would like to ask: Can it be considered human rights when it affects the human right of the woman who bears the baby? If you're cutting the women's human rights? Can human rights be spoken of as affecting the human rights of others?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u35	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry, and I'm surprised to learn that she thinks I'm going to the right with my speech. In my speech, I respected the woman's right to make a decision about her own body. Hv. No doubt a senator was not listening. So I don't quite understand this particular criticism. I also said that it was her right to make a decision to end the life of an unborn child, whether a decision is made due to birth defects, disease, or unwanted pregnancy. But I also said that it was far from easy for the woman to make such a decision. So I object to it as long as possible. A senator told me about it earlier. Regarding the human rights of the unborn child, I asked whether the unborn child who is mature should not have human rights. It would also be interesting to turn this around for a second and get a look at it. It's for a senator. I put it up as an inquiry. Of course, this is something very important to discuss, and I'm quite ready to sit down with the bang. A senator carefully reviews it and, in this context, including the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u36	President. Hv. A senator spoke in his talk about this as not to be the woman's conscious decision. Then I ask, Who can judge it? Is it, then, any man who decides whether it is a good decision or not? That's what I was referring to earlier. Hv. A senator speaks a lot about the right to life, which is a speech that is often used by opposers of abortion, or of pregnancy interruptions, as we call it today, in the world, and I would like to ask: What exactly is that bill? A senator resists? Is that just time, this 21 week plus six days? Or what exactly is that? That would be interesting.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u37	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Yeah, I'm gonna sit up against this time frame. Hv. A senator specifically mentioned this with an intentional decision, and I believe that such circumstances might arise, as I mentioned, for example. With regard to national legislation in Britain, it is not permitted to know about the sex of a child until this decision to have an abortion has passed, and the decision to break a pregnancy has to stop with the child's sex. I asked the highest. Minister to this very point, whether there is a risk of making decisions in this way. I don't think it has anything to do with whether a man is saying it or not. That's what I think is some kind of way out of the way. Senator. But yes, this bill, and especially what has been extended this period to have an abortion or pregnancy break, is contrary to my philosophy of living, I'm just saying, here. We are talking about a child who has grown up, and there really is a day difference between whether a child could be saved who has become mature in premature birth. That's what I wanted to say about what I asked. A senator, for whom I thank.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u38	A respectable president. Hv. In his talk, a senator mentioned that it was difficult to relate to those steps. Of course, he was referring to that move in the face of such a decision. Also said "wow." A senator's respect for the woman's self - determination, but in the same speech, I could sense a great contradiction in the subject he went into. He spoke of decisions and such. I actually think there's a contradiction. Either they trust each other. The senator of women to make this decision or not. I don't think it can be both. But I'm coming up here, facing what. A senator because we're two senators, we're men. I've noticed in this discussion, here and elsewhere, that the approach of women to it is usually very different from the approach of men when I listen to a different needlepoint. The logic in men tends to be this way -- I don't want to say any more dryer, but technically, more by some unit or by a corpse. When women talk about the same things, they come to a different conclusion. I think that's a good reason. I think it's because women have the inevitable intuitions that I can't have, and that's what it means for all men unless they've been women before. It does, for example. My discussion will not be so much about the material content of the bill, but I think it's important that we settle the question of where these matters are at home. I notice that there is no one to say that he does not trust women to make that decision. But then I feel that we need to show this in action, not telling women how to act on this decision or pretend that they are taking it lightly, because it involves the message that a man must somehow step in and know the woman, inevitable, the nature of the matter, even though it is not the intention of the senator. I wanted to make this up to you. A senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u39	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. It may not have been a personal inquiry, but it was such a question. I'd like to say this discussion isn't supposed to be a woman's private matter. I pointed out that women, professionals, have written articles on this bill and spoken against it, so I think it is perfectly normal for men and women to participate in this discussion. But I agree to be careful in this discussion. The right language must be used. People in the community are sensitive to this discussion. I understand that well, and I think that this is how I approach my talk. I don't see that there are any contradictions in my speech here because I think, and I've explained it, that the situation may arise that people use it for a purpose that I think is very questionable. Then I'll specifically mention it when it comes to having children. It's just a fact that some people don't want any more boys or no more girls, so these are factors that really worry me. I think it's perfectly clear that it must try to ensure it, such as. it is made in Britain that a decision cannot be made on the basis of, for example. a child, as I've mentioned here more than once. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u40	A respectable president. Hv. A senator said that people might be taking advantage of this. It can only be in such a way that women make the most of it, that's a little bit of my point. I'm going to take a closer look in my next speech. I wanted to ask you what. A candidate to a similar but not to the subject of the bill itself, i.e. how to approach the question and how to approach the right answers, such as any question we have. Hv. A senator took note of a Christian's attitude. This bill comes from an enormous amount of work taken by experts, ethicists, and doctors, after a extensive discussion that has been handled with such difficult questions as the child's development and various circumstances that are difficult to measure up to. Well, it's the focus of all of this. These are difficult questions. And the 22nd week marks nothing. This is after a great deal of publicity, those who specialize in ethics, in medical science. There are very difficult questions there. I always feel very uncomfortable when people set out for Arab religions as some way to settle moral questions, especially at the General Assembly, because, in my opinion, they are an out - of - date way to do so. It does not take many quotations in the Old Testament to prove this. But I don't quite see the role that religious convictions play in ethics or science today. I can't see that ethics or science has anything to do with Arab religions except perhaps as some history of how man's ideas have evolved over the years. So my second question to why. A member of the body is: What do religious doctrines, whether Christians or others, have to do with this?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u41	Yes, it's a pleasure to hear that. A senator is always as interested in religious matters as he is in discussing them with him, and hopefully as often as possible. [[No.]] First, before I reach this direct question, I'd like to say that as I mentioned in my speech, the Council has reasoned on these matters. Then I'd like to ask who. A contrast: Is that abnormal? Is it unnatural for a Synod to reason on such a vital matter? [[Foreground on: Yes.]] No doubt some have that view. All right. But the short answer is because of the question. I'm going to answer a verse from Jeremíi's prophecy: I knew you in the womb. [[Wait a minute.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u42	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to change the pregnancy break laws from the health minister. I think it's really important that we all go into this discussion of small care and realize that this is a big bill, with a tremendous number of important changes. Although it is important to discuss all parts of the bill, the discussion should not be limited to one part of it. Of course, the bill should replace very old laws. They were 43 years old and out - of - date in many respects, including women's self - determination rights. The laws were by no means working with the project. Such legislation does not want to be here, and it is our job to change it and to improve it, especially when much social change has taken place since the last law was accepted. It is safe to say that the current law is neither in accordance with the procedure, as I considered before, nor is it true to modern - day views, regardless of whether it is in the rights of disabled persons or to form women's self - determination rights. The trend has been tremendous and rapid. This was also true 43 years ago, since it also made fighters for even better laws - the people under whom they lived. Women enjoy a great deal of respect here, I'm going to let myself say. We should not be afraid to discuss this bill with fear that their decision regarding pregnancy is respected and that their autonomy is in the first place. Of course, there is in this bill such as the law it accepts that pregnancy break should always be carried out as soon as possible because this decision for the woman is always extremely difficult. It is always the woman's will to do this for herself as soon as she can. It is safe to say that it is with the most difficult of them if not one of the most difficult decisions a person can make. At the same time as we discuss this - and that there are people in this area who are overly preconceived on the only limit - we must be ready to take that discussion in the most complex way, where we want to restrict our decision - making rights and where it is normal. I'm not sure that this is necessarily the right solution. I think it's really important that we take the discussion, put the matter on the committee and follow it, and get further comments and talk about it. But I'm absolutely certain that it's the woman who's supposed to have the right to decide as long as we're supposed to put new, improved, and changed laws that are long gone. It is on the basis that we should be discussing this bill because it changes so much more than the number of weeks people discuss here and then claim to be opposers of the whole bill. There's absolutely no need for discussion. If people would just put it aside, I'd be happy to hear what people think about the bill, if it was disgusting, and if people were completely against everything in it. I'm sure you're not. I think that discussion could become possible, and I hope it is in a slightly different way than it was 43 years ago. I have a general hope that since then there are many adjustments in the conference Hall. Sometimes you realize that attitudes are only slightly changed since then and that, in fact, they do. A woman's view of women has developed very little since then, including some, but not all of them, of course. It is unfair to let the discussion that is based only on this point of the bill turn and end up with the whole bill and the necessary braking of the bill. But perhaps most of the discussion is going to be the case because people are stuck in certain tire tracks on this one point, thus trying to take in a lot of emotional activities. In a sense, it's normal, but in the same way, I don't think that discussion will help, either those who speak against this feature of the bill or by it. The bill also discusses many other subjects. These include women's right to the highest health care facilities at any given time in relation to pregnancy. The statistics in other countries that have comparable legislation and have improved the data show that neither the effect has been that more women are pregnant nor that women are particularly drawn to the question whether they will break their pregnancy because they are advanced in age, and pregnancy discontinuation occurs for these reasons even more invasive measures, both in women's lives and in body. Of course not! It is so ludicrous to come up in this talk chair and illustrate that women just plan to think about it, just to wait. I guess it's gonna be a boy. You see, there is still a small problem with a view of women. Or, "Oh, he cheated on me. Let's bomb this child away." What do you really think women are? There is no woman to think in this way! At the same time, though, we are to discuss in detail where we would like to have this week's number. There's a discussion that I'm so deeply interested in, I'm not quite 100% sure here is exactly the right day. How, though, should we approach that conversation while people think that women do it and think like that? It's so absurd that it makes me a much greater sponsor for the whole bill. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] The most important point here is to consider how the woman herself values her situation, whether we are going to consider setting up some kind of requirement or wherever this discussion of the bill goes on the committee, that it is the woman who also values her own circumstances. We can refer to Norway as an example of what has been done in law. Then, as I mentioned earlier, we are discussing the goal of the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people, who are believed to maintain standards, prejudice, and harmful practices associated with disabled people. I was pleased with the discussion that answered the top. Department of Health for screening and further evaluations of the Ministry. In the review of the Association of amateurs of Down syndrome and the National Association of Developments, the budget says, with the permission of a president: In view of the government's work at screening... Quotation ends because that's exactly where I'm staying. Government procedures are something we need to consider. Is our conduct normal? Of course, this is totally in harmony with what is being tried to meet, the rights which are guaranteed by those who are disabled by the United Nations Convention, and must not be overlooked in our discussions objectively. I hope that this bill and all the diverse smells in it will receive a perturbing discussion here, not only in this conference, but in the community, because the examples and reasons and positions of different people in the community are so different. Although we may find it hard to imagine that a person does not have you in his pregnancy or is in such a difficult situation that he cannot see life beyond that, we still have trouble putting ourselves in that situation. Our mission is to update these laws. It is an important assignment, but it is also our responsibility to examine whether we want to make some adjustments. That's the job of the council. I know it's the highest. This bill has been brought here by a health minister who can discuss it on the basis that it is extremely important to change out - of - date laws that are out of control - and should be the priorities of the legislature - but not in harmony with modern view of people with disability or women.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u43	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for a well - prepared talk. I mentioned it earlier in the inquiry to the highest degree. Minister and Anticipation of the legislation in Britain where giving up a child's sex is prohibited until the delay of pregnancy discontinuation or abortion has passed. I want to ask you why. A senator: Why does he believe that these laws have been passed?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u44	A respectable president. I think they were designed to meet the very nature of women choosing a child. If there's something that helps the discussion on this bill that we have to do the same thing, move the time limit back, or whatever way we want it to go, I think it's now with the minor changes that can be done on the bill to meet the opposite polarities. I think that might have been the answer in Britain, even though I don't know it specifically. I don't see anything wrong if people think that there's a real problem in Iceland or in fact in the United Kingdom, setting a limit so that women don't choose a child by sex. If people really think that it is a real problem, I don't think it's a very real problem for us to change it to meet such peculiar thoughts to women and their rights to make decisions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u45	Madam President. Thank you. The answer is contradiction. A senator because in her speech, she stressed that women did not think so as to choose between generations. But then there comes a reason. A member of the U.S. Senate now countered that this law was probably given in Britain, saying that there may be a threat that there is a selection between genders. [[The men are making the law.]] Thus, they were careful protesting at the time. Senator. But I appreciate the answer, and I hear what you're saying. A member of the United Kingdom believes that this law, as it is in Britain, will be added to this bill. And even if I'm against the bill, I'm gonna support it on my own, but I think it's necessary to be discussed within the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u46	A respectable president. No, my speech held no objection because I did not say that that was the reason, that it would happen, or that my women thought that way. I said that the reason is probably because of what. Councilmen like you who consider it to be a woman's idea of breaking a pregnancy because of a certain sex. That is totally in harmony with what I said in my speech. If this doesn't work. The senator to be with the law and with the whole bill - it grieves me to say that he is totally against it, although he seems to be busy with the weeklines - I see no reason to put it into the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u47	A respectable president. We will discuss a general review of counseling and training on sex and pregnancy and abortion and sterilization procedures, No. 25/1975. V.E.G. A minister has studied the subject of the bill in excellent order and thanks for it. I welcome its timely contribution. True, we will be listening to the contributions of a bill to legalize sterilizations later on tonight. Pregnancy violations and sources of this have always caused controversy, both in the country and abroad, and still do so. Just watching the news from the west of the ocean is all that is needed to witness a significant community conflict in these chemicals, which, in turn, move on to the political scene. Today, too, we have witnessed the emotional talks of members of the Parliament at the Generals' Hall. It is clear that this is a subject that affects all of us, and women and men have opinions about it in various ways. That's normal. In a bill report, a history of pregnancy discontinuation in Iceland, or abortion, such as this intervention and procedure, is properly attributed to current legislation. One of the factors proposed to change to a new bill is that the concept of pregnancy break should be adopted instead of abortion, which is highly validated and taken into account in other countries. There is not such a validated concept in this regard in the Northern languages and in the English language. It is a joy, for in fact, this term has already taken root, and its eyes and ears are full of fresh air in the discussion right now. The paper with the bill shows that it can be reasoned, including In a historical context, Iceland had a somewhat liberal view of pregnancy discontinuation. As shown in the case of a minister earlier today, the first law on abortion was given in 1935. Prior to that time, the law of penalties was simply set aside from 1869 that completely prohibited abortion, with up to eight years'hard work being done. That was the highest. Minister before today. Law No. Thus, 38/1935 were a landmark law. They are likely the first ones in the world to allow pregnancy breakes on the basis of social conditions, although there were consistent health and medical grounds in the foreground as the most important reason for intervention, or possibly the given motive for intervention. So, 43 years ago, No. 25/1975 were approved here at the General Assembly, which was a controversial legalization at the time. The result was compromise. In 1973, two years earlier, the bill had been proposed, causing much controversy in society and failure to succeed. It seemed to be going too far toward insanity. It is natural to consider new laws in this area in our day. Great social changes have occurred since 1975. This includes social and lifestyle factors, education, family types, and the status of the sexes. A major factor in the bill, perhaps the red thread with various other factors, is the fundamental factor that has to do with respect for and recognition of the woman's self - determination regarding pregnancy. This is where we have found it difficult to get along and really discern. The moral and religious views of many have been difficult, and we have not always been consistent with ourselves. Dr. Vilmundur Jónsson had a clear thought, his voice is not a voice from the back of the darkest of extremes and fanaticisms, as it was during the Middle Ages. I have found some of that at the Honorable Generalis Hall today. I hope it's not loud voices. Vilmundur Jónsson, with the permission of a president, captured the issue well when he wrote in 1934: ▪... leave women of all sorts, whether they want to become mothers or not. Here, wise words, those are words that very well measure up in time. Madam President. A panel appointed by the health - care minister in 2016 who worked on this bill, which we now deal with, apparently, carefully in all types, found that the best opportunity to gain happiness and the best opportunity to respect the women's self - determination rights by allowing a woman to request a pregnancy break to the end of week 22 of pregnancy. Thus, she is entitled to make a free and responsible decision to avoid having children when not prepared. It is concluded by the Committee that with these changes in the law there is no evidence that women will later break their pregnancy as yet or that the number of them will increase. This is the experience of our neighboring countries and lands that have already obtained information, as well as that of a minister today. It will be a most informative and challenging task to deal with the coverage and management of this bill on the welfare committee and to listen to and read about all the attitudes and comments that will undoubtedly come to the Committee. It is certain that opinions will be changed, that individual aspects of the bill will be handled, the reasons many, and the feelings will be intense. Maybe the most difficult thing to consider is what has been discussed here today, i.e. where to draw the line. Is that 18 weeks, 20 or 22? Of course, we will strive to find peace in the matter and in the decision - making work. I think it's a good bill and it's supposed to be a walk. On April 16, 1975, when the current law was being discussed, I allow myself to give a talk to Sighát son of Björgvinsson at the General Meeting in a hot discussion. They carefully frame the subject. Sighvatur said, with the permission of the President: Therefore, the book does not say whether to allow abortion in Iceland but, rather, about how much it should be appreciated by the woman who carries the fetus, whether there is reason to believe that a woman who has become pregnant would be judged as having a child and raising it, or whether it should be publicized, and then the expected unwieldy certificate would need and should be aware of it. The general rule in our society is that each individual healthy and self - controlled person should be aware of himself. The question is, Is pregnancy a disease or a shock of the sort that impairs a woman to the extent that a official certificate has to self-inflicted it...
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u48	A respectable president. Let me start by telling you a little bit of a silly story. I once went to a landing table with a member of a member of my team and was at the time that I was reminded of control. We went to a meeting, and there was a woman booked at the meeting, but at the last minute, she was shocked, so there were four men. At some point in the platform, there was a pregnancy break-off question. And, yes, we four men certainly talked about it, end up asking questions, but then someone put up with us, rightly in my opinion, that women might be a little tired of being constantly listening to some talk about pregnancy break, something they, the nature of the case, will never go through and feel on their own skin. I felt very foolish in this panel, and I feel a little silly coming up here and talking about it for the same reason. It's because, after all, - and now I'm saying this a little indiscriminately, and I'm going to say it anyway: After all, I don't feel that this case is a big deal to me because I'm a man. I fully understand how insulting this can be for some men because I was once in that place myself, and I thought it was a very different thought that men should not have thought of it. Just to make it right, it's okay for men to think of her. It just makes it harder for me to pay attention. That's what I'm talking about. It makes it harder for me to pay attention. And I think the discussion here today is, in fact, even more clear to that point because I notice very clearly the different approach of men and women in this discussion. And who would be surprised? We're discussing matters as--if there's one way to define biological gender, that would be it. I'll let the doctor correct me if there's a misunderstanding. I also notice differences and approaches in general during the discussion, and I can only imagine one reason. It is that women have intuitions that are lacking in this matter. I know about myself, at least, that I don't have this insight. When women talk to me in a box or in general about this, they talk about my insides and experiences that are very distant from me, and that's because I'm a man. I think that's just the way it is. Now I don't think that you have to have everything by yourself to understand it. But I think it's one of those things where you really need to be able to relate to another person's feelings in order to get enough insight to take everything into account that needs to be taken into account. I think that men just lacked certain grounds that are inevitable to make a logical decision in this matter as well as in the circumstances involved in this matter. That's why I haven't quite made up with myself how I intend to vote, whether I'm gonna be with this or if I'm going to sit by. I don't know, I'm gonna figure it out. But I feel that my role in this discussion is much more to listen than to say something. But I have an opinion of how to handle matters. I have opinions about how we make decisions in general. I think that's very important. One characteristic of mankind's insanity is thoughtlessness and wrong approach to truth, a highly incorrect method, a method well - known to fail to function, and it is very easy to prove that it is not working. The king of that subject is, of course, Arab religion. I'm sorry I'm going out on this subject, but I need to talk out loud about this. When Arab religion, with all its historical baloney, begins to mix in a decision - making process, such as here at the General Assembly, there will be an accident, a decision-making accident. Likely, there are many good things to be found in all Arab religions. It's not all nonsense that's written, actually, there's a lot of great things in the Bible, but there's a lot of nonsense, too. And you can say it out loud. If we're going to follow the ethics of the Old Testament, we're actually talking about killing gay men. It's really there, so look it up. Okay? All on the same page? [[The point is, it doesn't fit in with the discussion.]] This certainly should not be the case. I also think it's very silly to talk about it here in a pita, as I mentioned it earlier in a few talks. But it remains that they need to be discussed because they get in the way of my manly mind in this matter. Religion comes into play when it comes to moral matters. They are not necessarily useless, but they get in the way. They are major, and I don't know that they answer anything in ethics, much less the science that ethics and science cannot do. This bill is written from the work of people who specialize in very difficult ethical issues, such as. The 22 - week issue and other aspects of the matter. It's not like people have just snuck over a number and said, "There's no God anyway, we can do what we want. ' It's not like that. Morality is a real subject. Science is a real profession. They were used to make this bill, and I feel that respect for it is important to me. I think it is important that we not be using out - of - date methods to settle moral questions and out - of - date methods of searching for the truth or allow them to get in the way of these and other matters, as interesting as they all can be. It's true as 3rd. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! I'm very interested in religion, and I'll talk to anyone about it. As you understand, however, it is a little difficult for me to feel comfortable with this discussion for the reasons I have mentioned, so I intend to get the most out of the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u49	President. I'm gonna start by thanking the highest. Healthcare Minister for providing this bill. It's very important. We're dealing with a pregnancy break bill. What this bill does is replace older legislation on pregnancy breakes, which law deals with counselling and training about sex and pregnancy and abortion and sterilization. The law has reached its age, but it was set in 1975, so there is a great need to move all the procedures of pregnancy to a more modern level, I think at least and hopefully most people in this house. The decision to interrupt pregnancy is both difficult and difficult. Whatever the reason, a woman makes a decision. When we make laws about such decisions, one of the most important questions is, What is the best way to make such a decision? I believe that it is the woman herself because no one is in a better position to evaluate her situation than the woman who carries the baby. Nobody. No one else can make that decision. The decision to break a pregnancy or to have an abortion, as was called by the older law, has so far been a big part of that of someone other than the woman herself. In 1 1. current law states that there must be a report of two doctors or doctors and social workers, yes, or even a psychiatrist, before an abortion can be performed. This is really true in the hands of someone other than the woman herself. That's why this bill is so important. That arrangement would be abandoned, and the right to make that decision would be made to the woman herself. This arrangement is in accordance with a committee appointed by the health minister in March 2016 to work on a total legal review. The committee also suggested that pregnancy must be interrupted at the request of a woman until the end of week 22 if there were no medical reasons for this. It is the result of a number of experts and members of society who came to the work of the Committee, the Social Association of the National Socialist Institutes and Women's Diseases, Land Hospital, Iceland's Light House of State, Iceland's Women's Women's Rights Association, the Feminist Association of the University of Iceland, and other health experts. All agreed on the change that the woman was the best choice to make and should have the opportunity until the end of the 22nd week of pregnancy, which is 21 weeks plus six days, as shown in the discussion here tonight. My opinion is that the person who's the best down to make the decision to break up pregnancy is the woman herself. Women can be trusted to make this difficult decision for themselves. It's been said a lot of times, but it seems that I have to say it more often, so I'm just gonna say it a lot so people can hear it. The concern of those who disagree with this bill is rooted in their not believing that women should make this decision for themselves, that there is someone better to take it for them, that doctors or other health - care providers are somehow more capable in evaluating the woman's circumstances. This simply describes a lack of confidence in women and a feeling that they are unable to make decisions themselves without the presence of the State. If the woman feels that she needs counseling, instruction, support, or other assistance from health care professionals regarding her decision, it is clear that she will remain available. We just want the decision to be the woman. This is important for women who have gone through this process, as humiliating as it is now. This is an incredibly humiliating process, being an adult woman to decide to break a pregnancy and have to listen to someone, in fact, just with a lecture about contraception and how to prevent this from happening again, like it's some decision that you're taking just by saying, "Oh, this doesn't matter, I'm not gonna use contraception because I can just go to a pregnancy break. It's like there's the simplest thing in the world, like there's some decision a woman makes! This is a matter of rights for women to ensure their self - determination, freedom, and security. And this is an extremely important matter. I suspect from the discussion that has been here today that the people who oppose it are not just talking about the week's numbers. It has been said that there is a need to move time down to 12 weeks, but there is no option, that there are people who actually think that there are other people who are better qualified to make that decision than the woman because the woman is simply not trusted. That's what I'm seeing from this discussion. How sad that this is the case in 2018, that we are still there, becoming 2019! I don't think this is about the number of weeks. But me and you, sitting down. The welfare committee will receive this matter to us and will discuss it there on professional grounds, where we will receive professional attention. Hopefully, we will be able to resolve this issue professionally rather than emotionally, to determine whether it is possible to trust women or not to make decisions about their lives, safety, and futures.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u50	Madam President. We are gathered here to discuss an important pregnancy break-up update that is long-term. Today, the laws used were set in 1975 and, fortunately, many have changed since that time in Icelandic society. In addition, there is evidence that they have not really been employed for a long time. It's like the highest. The minister of Svandís Svavarsdóttir in his earlier speech has not been sufficiently loyal to the current law of women's self - determinations in matters of childbearing. If pregnancy has not really been free here on land, now the current law of a child of its age, as normal and I came in earlier. The bill that we are considering today will in fact underscore the basic right of women to control their own bodies, to their own health, and to their future by their choice. This takes a big step toward respecting women's right to control their lives. Madam President. I'm going to allow myself to assert here that no woman makes a quick decision to end her pregnancy, let alone when the decision is made between weeks 18 and 22. The statistics tell us a lot about this. In the 2017 case case case report by the surgeon's report on health information, 1,044 pregnancy discontinuations have been performed in this country or 13.1 operations per 1,000 women during their reproductive age. That's close to the North American average. The majority of operations in 2017 were performed in women aged 20◯29 or less than 53% of implementation procedures. A large proportion of women who had a pregnancy break in that year, or less than 64%, had not had such an operation before. It also shows that the majority of the measures, or 95%, were performed within 12 weeks of gestation and about 3.5% of the procedures were performed after 13◯16 weeks of gestation, but only slightly more than 1% after the gestation period of 16 weeks. This shows that there is not a big problem in this regard. The experience of other countries, so we'll consider it, too, which has comparable legislation and is being proposed here in Iceland, e.g. In Britain and the Netherlands, Canada, there is no reason to believe that the new legislation will have an effect on more women to break up or that women will delay their pregnancy, which is actually absurd. You see, it's one of the biggest, and I want to say the most serious or perhaps the most difficult decisions a woman may have to face in her life, to break a pregnancy. It is important for a woman to be free to make her own decision, as is suggested in the bill, that she receive all the support and information she needs to make in order to make an informed decision. The fact is that no one is more trustworthy in making a decision about his future, his own life, and his own body than that of the woman, and it is important to maintain that right in law. Women are to have the right of self - determination over their own bodies, which is fundamental to the equality of the sexes. American lawyer Sarah Weddington put it this way in a lawsuit for the U.S. Supreme Court in Roe Roe Wade's case, with permission of presidents: A woman's life is likely one of the most significant events in her life. Because of pregnancy, her body is affected, disturbed by her education, disturbed by her employment, and even endangers her whole family life. Because of all of this, it is important for the woman to have self - determination rights for a pregnancy break. In foreign lands, this term has exactly been linked to the right to freedom and has actually gone far beyond what we are talking about here, as the Supreme Court of Canada's case in case of a pregnancy break in which pregnancy break was actually doomed. So, after that decision, there is no law on abortion in Canada simply because it is contrary to the Canadian constitutions of the right to protect and to freedom and is now no limit. It is discussing going much shorter than that, although personally I would like to examine the Canadian route. But that's another story. Madam President. I think it's very important that these legislation have come out, and I would like to take advantage of this opportunity and thank you very much. A health minister for taking this step that is long overdue. It may never have been more important than we now that women have a permanent pregnancy break - up and thus a woman's self - determination right. And it is especially important now that we see a relapse in human rights around the world, especially in women's self - determination rights, in which there is even a women's access to pregnancy breaking. Madam President. With the consent of these laws - and I encourage the assembly and especially the... a welfare committee to suggest that the bill will be accepted unchanged - we can take the lead in these matters and be exemplary worldwide, something we can truly be proud of, and we Icelanders always find a good thing to do. But there we have a special opportunity to do so, to take the lead among the northern nations, and to be exemplary in the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u51	Madam President. I want to thank you at the beginning of my speech. Health Minister for providing this bill and thus taking a very important step that is long - term. The step is that I know the basics of this bill. We are as a community to decide that it is the right of women to make decisions about their own health, their own life, and their own body. That's the point of the case, and to me, all other concerns that might be on the bill are actually just anywhere else. This is the basic thing, huh? Councilmen, try to keep the discussion there. I suppose that's what. The welfare committee then carefully reviews the questions and opinions that have been presented in the discussion today, seeking to answer them in the best way, but always look at this key goal of the procedure. I also welcome what is presented in this bill - or actually what does not appear in this bill, i.e. that there is a difference between pregnancy cessation and the sterility of the donor. I also think it is a very important step, and therefore very pleasant, that these bills will appear on the same day and will be discussed almost at the same time at the council. I'm celebrating the bill, and I'm going to make every effort to ensure its progress. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u52	V.E.G. President. I choose not to view myself as an invitation in this discussion, even though I am a man in the middle of my life -- I cannot help but am here as a father of two children alive and a ⇩ owner of five grandchildren. I am eager to influence their future. With Icelanders, we have been taking the lead internationally. We have, for example. Fight premature pregnancy. We have emphasized the international responsibility that women have undergone over their own bodies. Of course, there are very many reasons to renew more than 40 - year - old legislation on this subject. It will not fail, and it has been seen and heard here in these discussions, that the bill that this causes intense feelings. This raises an emotional discussion. We've talked about it here that we're talking to people outside the house, especially women who have had to make the difficult decision to have an abortion that they have and who must be - now I'm speaking out of understanding - one of the most difficult decisions anyone can make, but this is also a painful discussion for the group that is unable to have children as well as the group that has suffered the loss of a child in the womb. I think we should respect all these feelings. However, it is obvious that no one is better off than a woman, a prospective mother, to make a decision to end pregnancy, with great respect for a group of three experts, or what they are now. I have no doubt about the committee that came up with this bill, I know it's well designed. I know some of these people as good only, but I still insist that they were members of the committee. no ethicist. I would have thought this committee should have been multi-organized, but it was because this case has to do with so many surfaces. Speak to the highest. A minister was very good, but I was disappointed only with the subjugation. I think I'll be right about a minister who referred to a third person who said it would always happen that women would get pregnant at the wrong time with the wrong guy because of a torn condom or something like that. It may not be that we will be taken away in the future, but I hope, in these words, there is no statement that an abortion is some late method of contraception, just so I'm speaking out. Of course, as I say, women should have an uncircumcised right to their bodies and to what they do. It was noted earlier in the matter of what. paritaprevir Insector Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir's daughter that we'd just be busy with the week's numbers. It may well be that I'm just busy with the number of weeks, but I have to tell about the legislation that we have and by improving it as we are going to do now that I'm going to ask myself if we have to go all this way. We're going to go to the northern countries, which have 12How18 weeks. We're going to go to 22. We're in the same place as the Dutch and the British. Residents are far more strict than the other three northern nations. I ask myself, " Do we have to go all this way? ' The law as it is now referred to that if the cause for abortion takes place up to 22 weeks or so because of severe foetal malformations or because the risk to the mother's life is over here. I've understood the law that way. I ask myself, " Why do we have to go beyond three northern countries, Finland, Denmark, and Norway, in this step in which we will talk about an unscrupulous abortion after 21 weeks and six days? ' That's a big step, all right? I welcome what says in a report, that the woman who has an abortion at this time is presenting the risks of the procedure, that she will be informed of the help she can receive, and that the other person will also be given information about how this is being done. It's all good. But there are basically two questions that I've only wondered about, too. First, when will a person become an individual? I think a pretty big question when a person becomes an individual. I'll accept that as an answer to a question why. paritaprevir An Áslaug of Arna I respect, and her speech was inspired and good, and she was needed - it's always good when young people come into the room and then talk about it. It blows up the dust around us. But, yes, I readily admit that I have a bit of a fetus that is going through the womb as they do when they are 22 weeks, a pound, viable, with a hair, a mature brain, and their lungs have grown sufficient and eyebrows. It may very well be just because I'm old, fishy, backward and something, I'll take it all, but I won't get rid of this picture. So I'll just admit it: Yes, I'm busy being 22 weeks or 21 weeks and six days. I would very much like to take a very serious discussion about that. I would also like to go deep into the goal of making sure that a future mother has the last word, not three experts, not anyone else, but that a future mother has always been the last. Only someone who has tried or been close to what such a decision can be extremely difficult and difficult to make. It is not to be easy to talk about, not at all. It's not supposed to be. That is why I also wondered what I was watching for those who chose to change the name of this operation, to talk about pregnancy breaking instead of having an abortion, whether it is an attempt to make this decision somehow easier, easier, or different. I can't see it for myself. I think a decision like that will always be as devastating to anyone in it, no matter what name we call the operation. But of course, I realize that the laws that have become quite ancient need to be corrected and corrected. But that's the other question I can't get out of my head, so I have to put it here: What is the point of a 20 - week waste? It has been shown here that it is e.g. Gender. So is Down syndrome. I think we have to ask ourselves, " Is the number of weeks that we're looking at in this bill somehow based on the fact that children with Down syndrome are no longer born in Iceland and whether we're going to screen for a syndrome in the eye that such children are not born in Iceland? ' If there's any way it's run into this bill, I don't think so. We who want to celebrate life's diversity, no matter what his appearance, should not contribute to the fact that the variety of games ends there, certainly not. Now I say again: I also feel sorry for people who are following this discussion and who are unable to have children. I'm sorry about that, too. I feel sorry for people who are looking for a baby because they need satisfaction and a way to pour their love into them. So I can't properly suggest that if this bill is done, I'm not going to say a real experiment but a serious thing to make women pregnant, have children, and tell them in time that there's a chance that they can give their children a adoption, that the possibility is easier made, maybe more human than today, I think that would also be a great deal of success instead of looking steadfastly at the possibilities under this bill that they're using at least 1,000 women in the last year. So I say again: This discussion is difficult, it's emotional. But we must take it, and we must take it honestly. We must respect one another's viewpoints, and we must give up on this matter that is so important to so many people that they have an intolerance to the opinions of others. Then, naturally, we have to take care of this bill as a law as best we can so that it will bring all those that it has to do with it as well as it can. It's our duty, and that's what we're supposed to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u53	Madam President. I tried as hard as I could from a talk. The senator respected his opinion on this matter. I have to admit, though, that I had a bit more difficult with it when it happened. A senator gave much thought to the gravity of all these women and put themselves on a certain judge's throne over them. I wonder what. A senator feels that he has some basis for evaluating whether any title has any effect on this operation and the painful experience that is always referred to, whether he has any insight into the feelings of women when they make such a decision, whether he really feels that he is entitled to have some statement toward them. On the pretzel, they were already driving. A senator began to draw into people who are trying to have children but who are unable, or who have a miscarriage, or who have suffered a breath of stillbirth and, apparently, would put them on the head of women who are thinking about carrying a child in some form of conscience disorder. And ask it together with this important issue. He feels for them people, spoke out loud. Senator. I can't afford to look at it when this type of guilt - filled rhythm is used to treat women, that they too, when they think of breaking up, that they think of all the people who are trying to have children, and how awful it is for them not to take the baby, to be some kind of substitute for childless people, and that they think of taking the place of pregnancy breaking up. I think it's a shameful saying. I don't know what it's like. A senator feels justified in saying this, being a member of the sex he is. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u54	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for giving me an opportunity to correct or rather explain what she clearly misunderstood in what I said earlier. The reason I say it's heavy, too, for those who have lost and cannot have children is because I know it. Both by experience and by other means. And I know it's a lot for women to make this decision because I know women who have had to do this. And that I'm putting myself in court over women with this? I don't know what ideas are needed to turn so completely out of what I was saying. That I'm testifying to some guilt and putting it to the head of women? Not at all. What I was saying was that I felt - and I feel - that it should be brought up to women who are faced with this decision - that I know how to use probe when it's difficult, though. A senator, I know that, although I am not a woman and have not had to make this decision myself, I want to know in my heart that people are aware of all the advantages available. It has nothing to do with making people feel guilty or to let them feel bad about themselves over their sad decision. As I say again, it takes only a considerable amount of imagination to put this understanding into my words in this regard. They are not made up for that purpose, unless less so, out of respect for them people. I am naturally old, so I know a considerable number of people who have faced this decision, and I know how it works and how it works, and I know how much it was.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u55	Madam President. First, personal examples from people's lives are not the same as knowing something true. What I was referring to is that I hear this word constantly used, heavy. And I can totally understand why people are always referring to a pregnancy break when they talk about it because they want to say something about it and think that it's never a decision they make in some scrap or just like that because they want to go into the Land Hospital Women's Women's Hospital Women's Hospital and break their pregnancy. It's a tough decision every woman she makes. But that she feels hurt, every woman who breaks her pregnancy, who makes a wise decision for herself and her life, that she has somehow to recover after that for months, and that's why it's so difficult - I'm trying to stop this debate because I don't think it's always that way. What a relief it can be to avoid walking with a child that you just don't want to walk with! And talking about it repeatedly as some kind of funeral - it's just a problem to me. Because it's a tough decision. No one's taking her lightly. However, it is not that all women sit and need psychological treatment for more years after undergoing pregnancy. It's just not like that. I wanted to keep this up. What other references? A senator was concerned about people who have trouble having children or who have had a dead child, and it was just very difficult to understand something else at the mouth. A senator, but women should read seriously whether they would rather take the child with them in order to have children without children. And it just sounds like a surrogate line to me. I just can't help it, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u56	V.E.G. President. Now I'm not going to sit here like someone who's got a criminal because of the words I had before, not at all. That may be, and now has a why. A senator above me that she is a woman and may understand, and surely, the feelings of women who need to take these steps better than I do. I can't imagine arguing that I know all about this rather than any other subject here on the program. But it just so happens that life teaches you things, even though you don't know everything and you see things and your experiences are intense. But that may well be the problem. A senator has more and more experience in these matters than I do, and I have a deep respect for it. But I'm waiting. A senator not to insist on me that I am trying to hang some guilt for the necks of those who have to walk this road, far away from me. What I said, however, is that people should be aware of everything. That's different. Senator, everything else. Hv. A senator can be aslittle as she would want this discussion to be more burdensome than those who have to cope with an abortion. She is naturally truly free. But it does not fail to know that, as I once said, those who are not able to bear children have suffered the loss of children in their mother's womb, this discussion is difficult for them. If there is any intolerance to it, then it must be. But I usually concentrate on trying to get in touch with the opinions of others as I possibly can, and even their feelings, if that is the case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u57	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the talk and warm words to me earlier. Hv. A senator quoted that I had said that people were not to discuss just this point, that the discussion was not to be about it, but I also stressed the need for us to consider it objectively, and it was, of course, in connection with the fact that the whole bill had been an abomination. That's why it's very important to ask why. Senator: Is he against the whole bill that I didn't feel was common in his speech? Or is he prepared to take a serious discussion about this week's number and how we do it and make it so permanently, but let's look at all the benefits that the bill has taken away from that point?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u58	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much for this answer. I'm obviously not very clear today, I may not be, but I did not present myself in my case against this bill. I did not present myself in my case against the bill as a whole. I just described in my speech that it was time to correct laws in this area that were more than 40 years old. To celebrate the use of sharp words. A senator on whether this was just a week ago suggested in my speech that I thought it was a good idea that we were in a single period of ten weeks ahead of the next North countries, since the trend in neighboring lands was cited. That's why I set it up. And, yes, I also described my will in the talk, as well as in the material discussion on those very points. I'm in, as I declared in my speech, that I thought, to take a serious discussion about just anything in the bill, all its advantages and flaws. As I said at the end of my talk earlier, it is our duty to the group of people involved in this bill that we choose and here we will be. So, hey. Senator, I'm more than willing to take up a topic discussion about this bill and its benefits and weaknesses.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u59	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator before me and makes it clear that I was talking about other senators who spoke before me saying this, but I did not put that insight into a word. Senator. But I wanted to get it straight because I like to hear that people are ready to discuss this bill as an improvement, even if we deal with some aspect of it. I'm really ready for that discussion, and I hear why. A senator that he too is willing to do so, counting much of the bill for improvement, as the vast majority of the speakers here can be seen - on which there are two exceptions - that the bill as a whole is necessary. Then we can take up a business discussion on how to handle a few things. This was all I wanted to share in my earlier talk because there were two voices in it. Councilmen expressed their abhorrence of the bill and were totally opposed to the whole matter. But I'm glad to hear it. A senator is not. He is ready to discuss the matter. I think that, because of us, we'll be much better and that we'll make a much better law for everyone, to form them for what they are. A senator mentioned, if we succeed in discussing the matter in the manner that I believe will improve. I don't have any more questions about speech. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u60	Madam President. Thank you. A senator again. For members of the council who spoke earlier today, there will be some difficulty. A senator talking to them about what they said, not to me. But it is with all the issues we deal with in life that deepen and improve if we take an honest and frank discussion about them. This is like a spring when you were doing school projects, more and deeper discussions about the projects, but they always improved, even though they argued for a while and all of that. The same is true of this and of many others and most of the others we will discuss at the council. It is for us to discuss this matter openly and honestly with respect to each other's opinions, whether they are subject to a shorter period of time, whether it is that humans, or women in particular, are identified as having other advantages. Whatever way we want to go, I feel that we will listen to one another. In the end, that is all it can do to improve the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u61	Mr. President. It's been discussed whether the transport plan should be completed by the end of the year or not. There have been discussions in various places. We thought that the situation was going on, and that made me feel a bit cold when I heard an active Chairman say something. The environment and transport committees claim that all of this was just on the way. It would just be less efficient to teach if we didn't finish before the year, that it probably had taken place a lot of plot, and that it would be no reason for me to do this other than to finish the whole thing before the New Year's Eve. I believed that this matter was under discussion here at the council, about whether it was being completed or not. To be honest, I think it's a little awkward to say that an acting environmental and transport committee is being introduced in this way directly into the discussion. I don't think that's comforting. I don't think it's evidence that we've been listened to in the government position. I just want to reiterate that I don't think it's appropriate that we finish this program by the end of the year, as unscrupulous and as immature as it is. The administrative part must start to speak clearly and express his intentions in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u62	Yes, a respectable president. Once again, we witness here at the council that at the end it stands to drive through a large, complicated, difficult, and important matter and to partake of claustrophobism. You get the feeling that this is the least of a demonstration of power, a show that you're the cause, you know how to use it, you can use it, and you'll use it if you want. A respectable president. If this is going to work out, it's not too bad, as some companies seem to be looking for. We in the management situation will not be able to cope, since the transport plans of the local chairman of the environment and transport network are successful. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u63	Mr. President. I want to come up here and agree with what. Sadly, members of the council who make a note of this comment are far too typical at the council. Almost a new bill has been published, so to speak, a new strategy that seems to be being forced through by more than a part of the transport committee. Where's the courage and courage? I now ask, just to discuss this new travel plan, although there are certainly good and important points in it. There must be more counsel for consultation and for consultation within the council before this is forced against. Sadly, though, this seems to be another example of the lack of communication in this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u64	Mr. President. You begin to describe the transverse cooperation of this government, which is so often spoken of at times but not yet seen in the lesser part. In fact, it seems that the government is looking for a conflict where peace is at hand. It has repeatedly been offered to resolve this issue regarding a road program that is a huge case for the entire nation, in large terms, right here at the council. But in such careful action, this government is not interested. This is most likely because she does not want to discuss what the worldwide tax increases, the road charges, and the general public in the country and especially the inhabitants of the southwest corner. Tax rise, which is multiplied by the proposed carbon rates, which the same categories were so fiercely protested. [[The president calls.]] This is a pre-requisite plan, which two of the three administration groups said before the election would not be an option to set up. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But this is not even a time to discuss this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u65	President. It's something you're getting used to, that just before we leave, it's supposed to be fast. It's a pain in the ass. Then we'll see the chairman of the Environment and Transport Committee coming in for tonight's news and we'll answer that it was in the past September. But these adjustments have not been made since September, they have just been developed, and we're supposed to do it quickly and quickly through the council. Why? Why is there so much urgency? It's all upset about this. It's not fair, Mr. President. It is dishonest to act this way toward the smaller parts and to the public in the country, to go on such an overexhaustible and major changes in a case that society has not had to talk about. Then it's just to be pushed through.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u66	Mr. President. At the recently stopped interview of the acting director of the Environment and Transport Committee, why? paritaprevir This was the case with Jón, son of Gunnarsson. He was asked if those charges would not have to be discussed with land and nation, so to speak. He replied that it would not be necessary to do so because the independent party had already discussed this with many people. I think it just opened a window, and we're standing outside, forced to watch the government of his dirty laundry. I think this case is too big to be started by closed doors, it has to be carried out in public. I suggest that the government groups finish this case, recognize what custody it is, try to establish a common policy, do a little bit of respect for members of the council or members of the government, but with all the more respect for the whole nation - withdraw this matter, work properly with the government spirit in the weeks ahead, and make it finished and fully satisfied when it comes together again. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u67	President. That's possible. to bear in its back the stream of water to bear witness to the government's government covenant. All plans for the long future need to be done in more consultation and better communication. A top-level partnership is needed at the General Assembly. Unusual circumstances call for adjustments in practice, open management, transparency, and respect for tasks. Pays can be good, but we don't make a system change, since we're going to make a total tax drop from traffic in the country, turn back the magazine, at some subsequent parts, or overnight meetings at the General Assembly. That's what you need to take care of yourself. This requires that we look to the plans of the government and the beautiful words of a government covenant. If they were followed, well, I'd love to live.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u68	Mr. President. We'll talk about speaking in this council hall. I'd like to encourage some guys, too. The government and the board of directors to have increased their consultations because there seems to be a difference between days, days, between people, groups and within groups, with each person speaking in the management team, whether they are there to finish this before Christmas or not. And this uncertainty and indecision are intolerable. We're trying to conduct ourselves in a decent way and visualize what this will be like, and we're also saying that for Congress to run out in a natural way, this matter needs to wait. To do so, however, we need clear answers, and they have not been available for more days. It's getting very tired that no one can decide in this government what really exists.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u69	Mr. President. It's been two days since the greater part showed up on the cards in this case. The case would have had to be carefully reviewed by most of the part, and now tonight we get to see what the greater part says, that it is the final decision that the greater part is behind. Here is a massive tax recovery on the southwestern corner, which has not been discussed. The Independence Party claims to have discussed this with 1,000 people in Valhalla, but I believe that there are over 350,000 people who will introduce this matter. That's quite a bit. It is quite clear that in this scheme, it is totally unclear how the city's budget is being financed. It is totally unclear how a southwestern corner project is going to take place, not a cane of writing on it really about how it will be implemented and totally unclear whether or not it will be able to finance it over its heads. But this is how we're supposed to complete this travel program. [[The president calls.]] This is amateur, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u70	A respectable president. Old and no good work. We have a new process into budget and financial programmes where the government sets up policy and finances that policy. That's where we're supposed to be. We now have a well - funded transport plan, as it is for financial change. If this is to be added and a new course of transportation for the next winter, that means that funding will happen in a financial program this spring. It's not that complicated. In fact, it has been given a bill just about that number of roads. V.E.G. A secretary of transportation says that we must have the courage and courage to complete this, courage, and courage to resist the laws of public finance with exactly this financing process. What's the highest. Minister to say? It is done in cooperation with the Ministry to bring these tax laws. Clearly, he has not had the courage to finish this himself. Rather, he asks the committee to finish it for himself. [[The president calls.]] Who, then, is courageous and courageous in this matter, or who lacks courage?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u71	A respectable president. As we've been through here, there's a why. The Environment and Transport Committee had two days to review this case, which was thrown into the committee at the latest in a recent fashion. This is a major issue for all of us, because this is a fundamental policy change in how we finance major projects here on the land. This is largely for the Icelandic public because it is a form of spells on people's everyday lives, in our daily routine. It's a tax returns to our daily lives. This does not go through the council at all. A secretary of transportation has made abundant consultation with himself.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u72	A respectable president. You learn to get a little sense of humor from the shit that sometimes walks around here. This morning we heard a talk from what happened. Ásmundur Friðriksson's august on the honour of the Generals, he came into a pita and spoke of people not to wear jeans in a Senate hall. I'm not going to give a direct quote. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson told me at this meeting earlier, but I'm going to tell you how he was dressed. He was wearing a jacket and he had a tie and a tie. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson came here in a pita this morning in a jacket and a tie, representing the respect of the Generals. Tonight's the day when we'll be taking over the director, huh? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, in the middle of a meeting to walk out of the meeting and take the phone, okay, you get it, like, and tell the press how the committee intends to handle it. Committeemen will find out by means of messages inside the meeting themselves. And then these men speak of the respect of the Generals. It's just for meditation, just to have some minor laughing material here on the town with respect to the council. What a mess.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u73	Mr. President. Everyone must see that there is no progress in making a fundamental change in the way a fee is collected to build up our roads and that it is introduced to an environmental and transport committee a week before. This is to be taken out of the Committee with the Commission's opinion. This is a fundamental change in currency in the land. This transport program has been forwarded 71 messages from rural society, people, institutions and companies all over the country, of course, because they need this sort of consultation in order to implement a transport plan. You don't just turn this into an article's fee for this party. This is one of the most important groups of paintings, the group of paintings that are the most precious to people today. He was the number two priority for the country's voters. You don't change it like that. Everyone must see that. If this is to be forced out of the committee, it means that Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynjörnfjörðurdótttir and Ari Trausti Guðmundsson need to participate. [[The president calls.]] It takes five to force it out of the committee this way if the lesser part wants to continue calling for reviews. [[The president calls.]] Okay, he could do that. It also takes the President of the Generals to throw this into this situation. [[The president calls.]] And, of course, we need to talk. [[The president calls.]] We need to talk in order to be able to post comments on this subject. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And that is exactly what we will do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u74	To this end, the president has been gentle with the man in view of time, but he prays. Councilmen respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u75	A respectable president. We have talked a lot about the lack, not just the lack of political reconciliation, parapolitic reconciliation, but the lack of efforts to do so. I can quite understand that there is not always a happy and recent example of that being done by the hunting bill earlier today. Sometimes that is impossible. At times, the difference of opinion is too great. But there is a sea and a sea between them, and so directly endeavoring to file issues, looking for conflict, seeking for conflict, because --who knows? This case had and has still, because there is hope, every opportunity to be worked here by the entire Senate; for I think everyone, may say, realize that our transport system needs to be reimbursed, everyone is up to that job. But choosing that way, choosing to get into conflict and conflict, is incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u76	President. Still, I try to consult the Treaty to try to find an explanation or, in some cases, to show how badly the government is in its own government covenant. The chapter on transport shows the need to build wood and try to speed up projects, maintenance, and new projects. The chapter on taxes says, with the permission of a president: It is time to consider that total reimburse transport currency, called green taxes, and tax appeals, so the tax returns the service of climate targets. This is not a single comment given on the current payment rate, but it may have been no wonder when the government deal was written, since it was a strictly declared policy at least A two-way government order would be out of the question. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u77	A respectable president. I want to get a little more involved in the financial process that we are in right now under official financial laws. This is carried out by tens of billions of people who are being referred to in the changing transport programmes, in those proposals, by tens of billions. Usually we get reviews from professionals like financial advisers, etc. who introduces to us the effects this will have on national and national interests as a whole. By doing this right at the end of the year, we have a tremendous impact on the entire population. What does this do for economic growth? I'm sure it's good stuff. What will this do with inflation? I don't know, I guess it's a fanny too. When we have this kind of work done, you start asking questions about stability and stability and transparency, which are the basis for the law on public finances. We're talking about tens of billions of projects that we're going past the process that we created in that law. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u78	President. In fact, I find it hard to believe that a team of left green people approves of such practices, and I sincerely hope that they do not. This is exactly the problem, that we don't know what's going on. In our memory, we do not know what the government is going to do because there are all different responses. We need to get this straight. There are three days left of this council. We need to know what the government's going to do about it. Now I see a few senators sitting here on the left green and listening. Are they not willing to come and tell us if they approve of such tactics, that there are changes in transport plans, huge changes affecting public taxation, and that are just supposed to come through? Is that something that's wrong? Councilmen agree?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u79	Mr. President. The talks that have been given from the wind. All of my fellow members share that it shows that it is indeed the will of all to build up transportation wood, which makes it even more tragic and painful to put matters through. I think that's why it's important to get to the top. The president gathers members of Congress and immediately lands the case tonight as the most honorable way, which I know he can do so well, instead of receiving messages from the news. Chairman of the Environment and Transport Committee on the management of the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u80	A respectable president. Transportary plans are what burns on humans. Is it the transport program that we agreed on in the fall? No, it's not her, it's somebody new. Has she been given publicity? Has she gone into this traditional democratic process that we know? No. Does a world of Congress know what it is doing in this new transport program? No, that's what they call it. We're talking about the changes that will be achieved, the greatest changes in Iceland's traffic culture, and the types of traffic that are known, both in currency and in construction. We need a problem. It doesn't seem to be done in this case, and it calls for a more delicate setting.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u81	A respectable president. Like many other members of the council, I care a little bit about Generals' respect. I wish people would respect the Council more. In this town, however, the honour of the Generals is often suggested by the fact that a person wears a tie or in the pants they wear, some superficial secondary things that matter exactly nothing. But then, when it comes to real behavior, e.g. In the matter of conversation between committees and such things, it happens in the good days as the evil, to the worse. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson seems to be working hard to show such an attitude that, of course, people have to answer for it. It's got to be answered. You don't get all worked up like that. It's just ridiculous. I would like to ask the president and the presidents in particular to inculcate in their members that respect is a way of life. It does not include wearing a tie and wearing a jacket or wearing jeans. It's about how we treat one another. [[The president calls.]] This attitude of character. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, acting director of Environment and Transport, is bad. [[The president calls.]] She's a disgrace. [[The president calls.]] That is what we should be wondering, where to show respect, i.e. Acting here within the house, not in some way wearing dress, or as superficial confusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u82	Mr. President. I don't think we can just settle on the board's demand that the case be closed in three days. I looked at it. The acting head of the environment and transportation committee in the news where he spoke of the fact that there was no need to wait because it had been discussed since September, that countless people had been called in for a meeting so that we could not be equipped, we could finish it in two, three days. It would not be an efficient assembly that could not do that. This case reminds me of a little bit of the story of the hammer that had been replaced twice by the handle and three times by the head. So the question is, is that the same hammer? Is this a new hammer or an old hammer? That's what this is all about. And I'm coming back up.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u83	Mr. President. If you insist that this matter can be completed in three days, which appears to be the case at hand. The director of the Transport Board, Jón Gunnarsson, highlights, when the matter is completely changed -- a completely new kind of currency to build up our road system is put in a committee study without any comments about that point coming into the environment and transport committee - we just need to keep talking here until that matter is really enlightened. We need to know what a community thinks, the seventy and one person who sent in the comments about the matter as it was before. But now it's being changed by the assessment of the environment and transport committee, and we're gonna have to talk about it until it's well informed enough. There are different combinations of them. The people of the land do not seem to want dues at this time. It could be that they came to the conclusion that they want to weigh. But we are not there, and it is not until society is well informed that we can let it out of the council. If we have to keep talking about it at council for that to happen, we will. [[The president calls.]] It is responsible in a democracies community not to allow such a language to be spoken by the General. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u84	Mr. President. I reiterate that I think we have quite a few things to say. It may well be that the environment in Iceland is changing, so we need to start looking for other funded resources. I'm sure that's the way it is. I'm not going to rule out that it's going to be done by some kind of currency, but it has to be in the first place, so that it can actually be paid for, but it doesn't get any weight on a certain area. They need to consider how it affects social groups, and it can be difficult for people who do not have much money to obtain it from them. I don't think the discussion is far enough. I think we should wait for the bill to charge. Then we can talk about it, and then we can decide how to spend the money.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u85	A respectable president. Men are magnificent in the Council of II, and the charges are signed for some sort of bullying and bullying in this matter. It is not the first time that they view themselves here in the hall. - Then they'll laugh. That's stupid. This is what they're having fun with, and maybe that's what they're trying to do, amuse the devil with this stunt here. Of course, this matter has been carefully discussed. The proceedings of the council can be turned out. Almost all rural areas in the country or their representatives have been contacted. A meeting with all the organizations involved in these matters has been completed, and in almost no doubt this route has been discussed with humans, whether they might plan to speed up projects by going that way. This has been a community discussion for a long time and was introduced in the last administration. The majority agree on the basis of the procedure to enter and implement the procedure. There has been a discussion in the committee now, probably for two weeks. That's what people have been working on. This is now all the freckle and weight in signed, or more part of it, because it just so happens that we're in it together in the greater part, it's not attached to one person, and no one person can drive a case through at the council. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Speaking of rudeness, of course. President, I think he's been reflected in their talks before, but I haven't been able to listen to all of them, but the ones I've been listening to are from men who haven't been in committee meetings in the fall. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u86	The president reminds us of a time limit, but he considers discussions about the President's conference board are now emptied.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u87	A respectable president. This is where we'll discuss a pregnancy break bill. I would like to thank the health minister for the contributions of this bill, but legislation is being revised from 1975 to the separation of pregnancy violations, or abortion in previous law, and sterilization procedures. The bill is partly based on the work of the Commission on a global review of the legislation on sexual counseling, pregnancy, abortion and infertility. The committee was appointed experts who are familiar with this series of languages and are acting on part of their proposals. Today, there have been a lot of feelings in the discussion, and this is very normal, since there are many manifestations of the conditions leading to pregnancy discontinuation. There are many times when every woman has her own situation, and no one can say about it. Regarding the concern that there will be an increased rate of pregnancy at the end of the term in the bill, or from the 16 weeks up to the 21st week and 6 days in the land doctors, only about 1% of pregnancies were released after the 16th week of pregnancy. The bill suggests that law No. 25/1975, that abortion should always be performed as soon as possible, or preferably before the end of week 12 of pregnancy, will continue in the new law to stress the importance of pregnancy breakes being carried out as early as possible. In Canada, experience shows that, despite widespread data to pregnancy, more than 90% of all pregnancy breakes are performed before the end of week 12 and only 0.3% after the end of week 20, but in Canada, there is no time for pregnancy break. I just want to talk about what has been discussed here, that a woman always knows before week 12 whether she is pregnant or not. It may be difficult to understand for those who have not been in that situation, but there are just so many cases of women giving birth to perfect children without realizing that they were pregnant. It can enter a difficult situation, denial, alcohol or drug abuse, which can affect these senses. But there's another part of the bill that hasn't been so much discussed today, which I think is very important. It's 8. The bill on education and counseling. It reads, with President's permission: Before pregnancy breaks, a woman should be instructed about the risks of the procedure as described above. Section 5. patient's rights. In case of medical contraindications to pregnancy, particular attention should be paid to pregnancy and the potential consequences. However, if a woman decides to interrupt her pregnancy, this should be recorded separately in the patient file. A woman should have an open-label supportive interview both before and after pregnancy break. All education and counselling in the context of pregnancy should be given impartially and based on experience and respect for human rights and guided by human dignity. This is very important to me. It is not a requirement for a woman to be instructed. It is available to her. There's a key point of support and counseling, that the woman is at her place, and she was objectively supportive to make a decision that she finally agrees with. A woman should be able to seek support in the decision - making process if she wishes to do so. Also, I'd like to make up the subject of pregnancy breakers in young girls who are illegal for childhood reasons. That group needs the best of support and instruction, especially if it is not found in the girl's family or closer environment. Unfortunately, there may be circumstances where pregnancy breakes are better for an unskilled girl without parental or guardian knowledge. Then the support and education are even more important. So, I hope the bill gets a good, careful coverage from what? The welfare committee. The committee will no doubt reflect on various viewpoints on the matter. I insist that I strongly support the self - determination of women's rights, and I want to stress that that that does not mean that women will wish for a pregnancy break without consulting anyone or making such a decision without deliberate thought. Today the subject of abortion, pregnancy rupture, the use of a word, was discussed, if it matters. I dare say it doesn't matter what the procedure is, it always affects the person who chooses it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u88	Mr. President. We still wait for an answer, so we face shame for not being perfectly polite enough to get some kind of explanation of how it works to complete this council. That we dare refuse to get it on television news stories at once. The head of the Environment and Transport Committee on how to complete the case rather than to address us directly, who have been calling for answers. We still call for clear answers as to what is really up here, but it seems that no one has made a decision on that subject. To be honest, Mr. President, I'm getting very tired of that condition. We've been asking for more days whether this really exists, and it's time for someone in the administrative home to decide. Will they squeeze a transport program through the council without consulting, a large plan that is completely changed from its original donation, or will they wait and try to make more peace this time? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u89	A respectable president. I don't particularly invite myself to the point of making compromises and ending cases by senators and intendents of the individual affairs. That's what they'll be. Senators dealing with themselves. But it is a total disrespect for the council when the matter has been changed so much by the majority of the committee - and it should be held to the advantage that it is the main part of the committee that has won these changes and the smaller part is just to see them now - that the plan has been substantially increased, its amendment has been completely changed. We have a very fundamental point when it comes to such funding and various viewpoints as such funding or payment, in terms of personal protection, in terms of equality between parts of the land, and so on. It is fundamental to give the council sufficient time to discuss it with some difficulty. [[The president calls.]] There's nothing to stop this case from coming to an end this week if we're here to make peace with you on the matter of Congress. [[The president calls.]] There's no hurry. [[The president calls.]] There is plenty of time to complete the case in January or February. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u90	A respectable president. Speaking of time, I want to review similar comments that I made with the budget talk, i.e. in regular committee procedures, the smaller portion should normally be kept for less than two days to complete its commission. It is according to a correct procedure in which cases have gone through the process of reporting and being treated as normal, we should have no less than two days to enter a committee program on similar subjects. In this case, we receive a week - long, completely altered travel program, where the final outcome finally occurred a few hours ago. Of course, we need at least two days to win our minor opinion on a transport plan if it should have this look. [[The president calls.]] If it remains unchanged from the time it was submitted with the comments about it, it is much less than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u91	Mr. President. There are times when even the most powerful competitors need to recognize the old truth that foreseeers are sometimes better. I think it's clear to all of us from a discussion at the conference hall these past few days and after news in the media tonight that the suggestions are dealing with the Independence Party. In this way, I think an active chairman should be safe to sit down and allow the Environment and Transport Committee, allow the General Assembly, allow the backland, allow the public to discuss these matters, to get clear what it is, what the benefits are, how we can best work this thing on. These changes are significant; there will be nothing to do with the problem if we give ourselves the time the council is supposed to waste to keep working on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u92	Mr. President. A filibuster is about talking here. We can, at 2nd. We can talk for five minutes over and over. That's what's allowed us to talk about. But there is no practice of language unless the president of the council has first set up a program that is absolutely clear that the people of the country do not wish, which has not been won professionally, etc. That's exactly what language works. When there's a code of speech going on, everyone thinks it's boring, the greater part thinks it's boring, the less part of it feels boring, the people think it's boring. Everyone thinks it's boring. So if you have a legitimate reason to stand up here making sure that the people's will is respected, then the language will work. However, there is another factor that makes speech reading difficult. You know, most things usually just take a vacation. The lesser part must stand here and stand in the filament. It can be turned around. The smaller things can go on Christmas vacation, they're family people and stuff like that. A few stand here--and I would be willing to do it--from all categories. [[The president calls.]] We're standing here, and we're in the filament of this case, which the President continues to set up. [[The president calls.]] Also called for a vote for an issue to go off schedule, which means that every member of the board needs to be held in the beginning of the next meeting so that they do not get away on holiday. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So we turn back, and the nation is protected from these suggestions until the following year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u93	The president points out that unless there is a time limit, it is too late for a subject to get on the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u94	A respectable president. Here we face a situation that is vastly huge and with regard to countless national fields. It also matters, as I have begun before, the daily lives of the public in the country. It is a matter of everyday life for almost every citizen of the country, and it is a tax product of the daily life of every citizen in the country. I have no doubt about it. A local chairman of the Environment and Transport Committee feels that there has been a fine consultation. I'm sure he's had a good look at himself, and he's had a good look at his team, and he's had a good look at people at Valhalla, and he's even talked to his associates in the government classes about this. But that's not enough. There has not been enough consultation with the government groups, and there has been no consultation with the general public in the country that this will bring to bear. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u95	Mr. President. I could pick up the thread where it could be. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson let him go, i.e. We're talking about an enormously important structure on the interiors that are very important to the public. In the Castlight of the day, the highest said. Just as a minister of transportation would measure matters, not in miles of fine road, but in quality of life and health, and in getting people in one place to another. So we may be talking about one of the biggest issues of our day, a matter that affects us so much in the long future. And then I have to quote again into the government covenant, which specifically says that all major issues that concern us for the long future are of utmost importance to achieve the harmony of all classes, which have a place of at least oneness. [[The president calls.]] No attempt has been made to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u96	Mr. President. I've come up for the third time to join with what. Councilmen and their comments to the President's conference board are planning to put this matter on the program now before... that was on the news earlier. [[When was it set?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u97	Who decided?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u98	Hv. Clearly, the director of a transport committee. I welcome it, Mr. President, if the President says it's over... [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u99	Silence in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u100	I'm happy if the President is announcing in the hall that this case will not be scheduled. I reiterate my encouragement back to the highest level. President to assemble members of Congress with an agreement on this matter. Then we don't have to do what we're doing here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u101	Mr. President. It's very interesting to hear that a monotonous incident is involved. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son in television news is not a law in the Assembly Hall. Hv. A member and acting director of the Environment and Transport Committee has announced that this will be handled out of the committee and set up on this basis. It is so that the Independence Party seminar has conducted the ideas of individual senators on a tour of the country during the past few weeks and months and although a few members of the Parliament believe that the party is the start and end of all things, it is still that the majority of the people in the country do not meet at any meeting at that club. So try to make it look like there's some sort of consultation to do some political thing about the country -- Of course, there's no consultation, Mr. President. We have to have the conversation here at the council, and it hasn't happened.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u102	Mr. President. It has been called upon to agree on this matter from the lesser part. It has not been reported in any way. Rather, it has been reported that the major part's aim is to drive the case through before the Senate hearings. Of course, when you get there, you wonder. to the responsible provision of public funds, that these are decisions being made. We get the last edition in our hands now, probably the third one today, because of where this case is going, i.e. how clearly this is before the council. Most of us may be experiencing significant increases, but what priorities are set before us? How does that come about with regard to the government budget? It will probably break her frame considerably. How does this work out when it comes to priorities? That's a long way to count. Once again, nothing has been reported on the case, which warrants the need to be completed in some flum class in two or three days. [[The president calls.]] There is plenty of time for this to be won right after the New Year's Eve, so it's time to work before the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u103	A respectable president. I'm still a bit naive in that I ask very often why things are as they are. When it comes to the various political processes and how things work out, I can usually find an answer. That's not necessarily the right answer, but I can find an answer. I imagine there's some reason why certain things happen, some because the rules are somehow or because people have decided to use the rules in another way, usually because they are suitable for the discussion or politics or whatever. What I do not understand, however, and what is beyond my grasp, especially on the part of the wrong, is the best interests of serving when this matter is deliberately settled. paritaprevir The Independence Party. I don't know what's going to happen. A senator is defending by doing so. Why not allow the case to have the discussion that it needs? Then I'm not just talking about a discussion here, I'm talking about a conversation in the community. People are still very active in the discussion, and they may need to reason to see how wonderful all of this is. [[The president calls.]] It may well be. [[The president calls.]] Not only are we at the Council but our viewpoints are important; they also matter what people in the city feel. [[The president calls.]] It is important that we discern why we do things the way we do them. [[The president calls.]] Writing on committees is not enough. People need time. Why can't you give it to him? [[The president calls.]] What's the hurry?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u104	The president points out that it is also important to respect the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u105	A respectable president. I'm gonna start by saying I don't have anything to do with the conference board. President to check. I wondered what this discussion is all about. I have to say, I'm incredibly excited to discuss transport plans and new means of transportation. If we had something in our hands and this was on schedule, it would be nice to do it. But when some are down, Senators have been on a transport and environment committee, with obvious disagreements, but others are not so difficult to address, as we are having a discussion about the President's conference board. I wonder why. The environment and transport committees do not meet again and review the case, and if the case is resolved by the Committee, they will receive data here and will be able to take up a financial discussion on the transport plan. [[Up front.]] I don't see that it will be effective when we have a full program of important matters to discuss spending time in the President's conference board, the highest. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u106	Mr. President. It's good to have men who know the ways in this room. But I wanted to tell you what. Council members of the Council had a meeting on this matter and its status at the council at five o'clock today. There, the presidents of all classes and representatives of their viewpoints crossed the issue. True, one president was missing, and that was, of course, not available. But I'd like to report to the Senate since I'm planning to give a meeting to the presidents later tonight in order to discuss this matter further. Perhaps it would relieve some of the members of the council to discuss this point under the President's conference board in view of my plans to continue this discussion with the presidents tonight and to honestly believe that the matter was in the process of making new decisions that would not be taken of the situation until the presidents had come together again.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u107	A respectable president. Of course, all of us realize that this is a major matter that needs extensive and careful discussion with the participation of the council and, indeed, the nation. Hv. An active chairman of the Environment and Transport Committee, Jón Gunnarsson, is a modern - day candidate. They're not going to do anything about it. He has a lot of ambition for improved transportation. But the way he uses himself in this matter is not in the common language, he says that he has made extensive consultations, but there is a lack of that in the council. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] I think we have to stress that we're going to do this according to standard practice. Although we know that transport has to be a major challenge, we have to make peace in the community. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u108	The President instructs that there is a sound in the council hall and side halls.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u109	A respectable president. Because of that. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir spoke of earlier I'd like to say that this may be a little incomprehensible for those outside the committee. But that is exactly the text and, in fact, a change of direction is presented in the committee list of parts. If it gets out of the committee in that form, it's kind of self-destructed at the council. The decision there is not reversible, for it is merely a recommendation to the minister of the Committee. The argument is a little over the fact that the committee can't be like this and tie the hands of the council and the continuation of the case in this way. But then I'm also an amateur for calling things the right names, and I'd like to remind you that this is a tax raise of at least 5 billion a year. I'd like to remind the U.S.A. that it's not entirely connected with the financial policy involved in the value of 5 billion dollars. a tax increase a year to finance this project.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u110	Mr. President. I would kindly pray that I had been surprised before the Supreme Court. The prime minister was called up here for all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u111	Happens to all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u112	I didn't realize it, but I'm both obliged and, in fact, kind to step aside from a talk chair for her at any time. I also liked the atmosphere that was formed when Mr. President sat behind me, and the president of the council was so convinced. paritaprevir Elíasdóttir Frisbjörg, the daughter of Elijah There was nothing more to it than what to do. paritaprevir The Guðjón S. Brjánsson, Vice President 1, got involved. And all of a sudden, I thought, maybe our meetings should be a little more informal, so we would just sit and talk. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] But I look forward to a meeting at the highest. The prime minister tonight, and let's hope she puts something on the table that we can all settle on. [[Foregroundly, but not...]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u113	V.E.G. President. I'm going to call attention to the fact that it's almost over or about to go to the late half hour of the discussion about the President's conference board. Before that, for one material talk on the subject on the schedule, there was another one such a half hour period. This round has exposed the proprietor and the prowess. paritaprevir Jón Ólafsson was amazed at how he approved of using a language weapon. I don't know if it helps to figure out how to do this, but I don't think so. I think the issue that raises this discussion, the transport plan, deserves to be discussed at the Senate Hall and I hope it will be before Christmas. We will see how we adjust our schedule for the next few days at the council. [[The president calls.]] I experience it so that there is a great need for senators to get involved in that subject, and hopefully it will be more productive than the discussion of the President's conference board.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u114	Mr. President. There's a lot to do. I'd like to make the subject of the entrance the highest. Prime Minister. It was a pleasure to hear that listening was being done there. However, the reason why we are here is that it could not be understood and could not be understood the words of an acting Environment and Transport Committee that he intended to take the case out of the committee tomorrow or the following day. He was even more explicit on radio or television at the time of a meeting by committees. Therefore, it would be useful to receive a little clearer guidance from the highest level. Governments or management teams should be listened to. Besides, I have to say, I kind of miss hearing at other times. Council members of the Environment and Transport Committee. [[The president calls.]] They have not had much time in the hearing of committees. [[The president calls.]] They've had nothing to do with it here. I'd like and interesting, and it might even be a little informative to get their opinion of the situation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u115	A respectable president. Of course, some talk about not wanting the country to want it to be unrecognized. They feel that they are about to speak in the name of the nation. It is essential in all context to maintain that in all the hard work that has been in the last two weeks of the Environment and Transport Committee, less participation has been made in all meetings with the experts with whom the Committee has been working. They have been invited to participate in discussions with the Ministry. We have invited all members of the Committee representatives to bring a presentation to every assembly meeting so that members of the council could take up a discussion of the matter and see where it was coming from. This is about the daily lives of the people of the land. It's about traffic security. It's about reducing accidents. It's about getting our transport system into today so that people can travel within part of the country properly. [[The president calls.]] It is called for by the harmony of all categories. It was also called after in the Fishing Government Act. [[The president calls.]] It was also called for in financial terms. Of course, there are differences. He is well - known at the council. [[The president calls.]] The only grammatical comment I've ever found in this discussion is from what. þm. The Þorsteinn of Wazowski, who said this would affect financial and financial policies. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That is absolutely correct, and that, of course, is what is the next step and would follow that bill as the highest. Transporter announces after Christmas or in the new year. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u116	The President will recommend that we do so. Senators are worth deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u117	Mr. President. I'm not really surprised at that. Haraldsdóttir How would you like to discuss the matter in a councilroom? This matter is not available to be discussed at the council Hall because not all data are behind statements about one thing or another. The case is not ready. We don't have a table in our hands that shows what to do and what not to be done and how to finance it. We are still waiting for the latest version of that table. When the committee was being reviewed this morning, it was still not quite ready, but, in fact, not to be there, under the order of the Ministry. [[The president calls.]] So this is the situation, and when it is the case that the committee has not yet finished, it is hardly available to be discussed in the councilroom.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u118	A respectable president. In one of their immortal songs, our new Bubbi prize Morthens Bubb Morthens wrote: A thousand codfish are getting closer on the assembly. I sometimes think about this line when I'm here at the General Assembly of Iceland or maybe there's a thousand fires on the assembly, we're getting closer to it because we're sometimes in here, like the assembly where we stamp and stamp a law coming from Europe, and we have comments on it, but also from councils and even from some state-of-the-state agency. So we're here discussing the President's conference board, but we're not yet discussing a transport program. We would like to discuss a transportation plan. We need to keep up - to - date with our schedule of transportation. Three days to do so is completely absurd.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u119	A respectable president. I got three and a half points. I don't speak for voters, but I'm talking to a lot of people. As it turns out, there's not much discussion in society or anything. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson doesn't decide how much reasoning people need, it's just not something they decide. What to say. paritaprevir I would like to say that Birgir's Ármannsson of Aargis is a characteristic of my powerlessness. We talked about this very much, or I'm sure, during the last term, and I'm at any time in more of that conversation, it's important. And at what? paritaprevir I'd like to say I trust Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir. A senator just to take an honest discussion and change his mind if some new data comes in. It's a typical truck here, however, that we're complaining about that which stands in the way of credibility towards that whole process. It wouldn't have cost you a second. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's concern for others would not have cost anyone anything. But he chose not to. He generally prefers not to do so, and this induces people to be fearful and skeptical about the political process in which we reason on some solution, a work that should be done. Such a course reduces credibility, from which the fear comes. But in the end, I just say that I like it very, very important. The prime minister came here to explain that this is still under discussion tonight. [[The president calls.]] But that shouldn't be necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u120	Mr. President. I may say, first of all, that I agree with the highest words. Prime Minister Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter. That's exactly what I thought was happening to the prefects. That's exactly why I was sitting calm and waiting, but I was directed to the evening news where a seated head of the environment and transportation agency told us that it was to take this case out tomorrow or the other, and the policy would be taken out. I had a good faith that it was still under discussion, and I found that instead of going back to the chairman's meeting to discuss the continuation of this case, I would have news of it on television news. I just don't think it's a sign of good consultation. That's why I didn't react very well to these circumstances. I think it's pretty normal. What a word. The Senator Ármannsson, the King of the Year, is concerned with the length of this discussion. It is important for us to present ourselves with them that we need time to discuss this matter, and it is important for us to have time to talk to people in our chosen groups, with people in our society, about how they feel about it before it is discussed, and it also takes time to meet with the President. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u121	President. Of course, it was important and enjoyable. The prime minister spoke and repeated each custody of the matter at the moment. It's important. However, with regard to the matter itself and how well and ready it is, I have seen now at the last one and a half hours at least. two versions of data from the date. The transport committee and in one of the tablets provided will only measure up to little 10 billion, just like that in a high-test reading, I guess. One whale tunnel missing. So it seems to me now that the work is perhaps a bit sloppy. [[The president calls.]] But it is good to know where and where decisions will be made.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u122	A respectable president. First, I have to thank the President for conducting a very careful discussion of a pregnancy break that has taken place here today and thanks to the Senate as well as to participate in that important discussion. We are in the middle of that discussion here. But I also want to make sure that when it's the highest. Prime Minister comes in here to address the President's conference board, for good reason. This is to make sure that there is a common understanding of what the next steps are in the matter. It is her word, and they are absolutely clear that there will be no further action in this case until the end of a meeting with the presidents. The announcement of a meeting with the presidents here at the City Hall at 9 p.m., which is the time according to my information, tells us that the council can breathe slowly beyond the meeting, i.e. that the prime minister has decided that the matter is settled there that he deserves a meeting with the officers of all classes. [[The president calls.]] I'm glad, and I think it's very important that we be able to continue discussing the subjects listed here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u123	Mr. President. I agree completely with the highest. Healthcare Minister of Svandís Svavarsdóttir. I didn't mean to come up again. That's exactly what I thank Katrín, daughter of Jakobsdóttir, the highest. Prime Minister, for stepping up and saying, "That's what I'm talking about. I'm just gonna have to answer Birgir Ármannsson's son, okay? Class president of the Independence Party: Yes, of course, I would like to discuss a transport program, just not a transport program in which another assembly has actually been forced into it, which is a fundamental change in the payment of the country's road system. We have to start to realize that the president of Iceland, Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson, said he'd shoot a case in a national law if there were two requisitions. On the one hand, it was a fundamental change, and he didn't want to do it about the hunting costs, but he said that if it was a fundamental change in, e.g. The fishing system, he'd be ready to shoot things in a national bill. But there is something else that needs to happen too. There must be a lot of discussion in the community. A lot of discussion at the council. And there'll be a lot of discussion about this if it comes into the council like that. I'm also quite willing to do so, if this is not the way that is being suggested now by more of the Environment and Transport Committee, that we do this and can finish this by Christmas. [[The president calls.]] We want to discuss this, but we don't want to make a basic change in our lives.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u124	A respectable president. That's the right to keep it together because you're being accused of being jealous and bullying, and it was interesting to listen to what you were doing. paritaprevir Helga Vala the daughter of Helgadóttir, who said to him why. paritaprevir In the early hours of her life, Bryndís's daughter's Haraldsdóttir did not realize what was being discussed. It is fine that the World of Congress knows who can judge in the Hall when people will see what is being discussed and what is not. I would like to reiterate what happened earlier, which is very important in this case, that all members of the Environment and Transport Committee have been invited to participate in the work with specialists that have taken place in the past few days. Hv. paritaprevir For example, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson has worked a lot with Vilhjálmur Árnason, a member of the Independence Party, in this committee party, just to be maintained. We have repeatedly offered that we are ready to introduce the matter to members of all classes at a congregation meeting. It's never been accepted. [[The president calls.]] People have not seen reason to think that they are better involved, but they feel that they are here to discuss this with great calmness and knowledge without having wished for it or being involved in molding such a course. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Everything's been available. Yes, there are days left of this council, and I guess there will be plenty of time now until Christmas that we have if anyone chooses to talk about it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It wouldn't be the first time that it happened at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u125	A respectable president. It may be a bit difficult to put yourself in position to discuss an important matter here. It's obviously not good to get into lunch break and then double the dose of the meeting talk. I'm here to discuss a management bill to legalize a pregnancy break from the highest level. Secretary of health. I'll start by saying, at last, at last! This bill is so long, long time. You see, today we have laws in these substances that are older than the one we see here and that simply do not take into account the society we live in today's world. So I think it's very important that this bill is done. I can see it well in the report, and when you study this case, it's been a long time. It wasn't the ex-fiancée. The health minister is a former senior minister. Health Minister Kristján Þór Júlíusson, is not true, who appointed a committee at the time to cross the law. I know that some years ago the doctors themselves wrote an article and made us think that it was absolutely necessary to make changes in these laws. And when we in this hall hear that, in fact, it's not working by the law, it's been accomplished by someone else, it must tell us that it's time to act on that change. There aren't so many articles in this great bill, and I think it's pretty clear. I'm just gonna get a few tips here on a few things. 1st par. is about goals and values. The objective is to ensure the autonomy of women wishing to have a pregnancy break, that it is effective by providing them with safe access to health care according to the laws of the law. I hope we all agree on the importance of ensuring the autonomy of women when it comes to these factors. Today, on the other hand, the law has to have a set of reasons, which are then either social or medical reasons, and it is others who consider it to be real. Someone used that word earlier that it was a government unofficial certificate that made such a decision. It can be very difficult to agree with the views I have at least, and I think most of us have in this room when it comes to this team. I don't talk about what is listed in the law under social conditions. These definitions were completely different from those of us today in 1975. Then you wonder, " What kind of circumstances might arise in order for a woman to wish for a pregnancy break? ' Of course, I can think of several reasons. But if we're going to try to write it into the law, I think there's absolutely no hope for us here, the Lawgiver, to imagine any circumstances that might arise that should be taken for granted to break up the pregnancy. That is why I think it must be so that we always trust the woman with the decision. In the past, there was some debate over a difficult decision. Whatever word we use about it, I'm sure it's never a small decision to break up with a pregnancy. And I can't imagine anyone better qualified to evaluate situations that may exist than the woman herself. That is why I follow what is presented here in this bill on the woman's self - determination. Then there may be two other articles that create a thought - provoking, natural thought. It's 4. That's what's about the duration. This bill describes the possibility of violating a woman's pregnancy, on her request, until the end of week 22. It also emphasizes that pregnancy breakes should always be performed as soon as possible and preferably before the end of week 12 of pregnancy. I can honestly understand that people have different views and opinions about what is the right number of weeks when they come up with these issues. But I still find the answers received from the highest. The health ministers and the definitions discussed in the report are quite good. The fact that a 22 - week fetus is not a viable fetus is argumentative. But I thought about saying 18, 20 or 22 weeks or even going further, where it would be reasonable to draw the line. So I find this suggestion, especially when you realize how it came about, but it actually came up after comments from the specialists in this category that put this precisely, if I understand the case correctly, it gives me some note that there may have put down right, if it can be said in that way, time as far as it matters. I'm just encouraging you. The welfare committee to consider this matter very carefully, and I suppose this article will be a significant subject. There is good reason to listen to the viewpoints that may exist in this regard. That's when I stopped at 5th. the bill, the permission to break down pregnancy in a young girl who is illegal for childhood. It says: In accordance with the laws of these, it is advisable to break the pregnancy for a youth's sake, without the permission of parents or guardians, at her request. In the context of pregnancy break, the patient should be offered advice and advice on contraception. I think it's normal, and it was presented in some speech earlier tonight, to reflect on the role of parents, or not just a role but a duty of parents in these matters. But then I also found it helpful to read the report on this subject, on the other hand, to read the viewpoint that the Ministry of Justice had promoted and, on the other hand, the viewpoint that had originated with a child's emissary. I thought that was a pretty good argument, and again I felt like a man. The welfare committee to review this. I suppose there may also be some point of view in this article, but I think it's a very objective and good approach to the subject. These may be the main points in Article 4. and 5th pars. that makes you think in particular: Is this really the right way to approach this delicate subject? But at least I have no doubt that the purpose of the law to ensure women's autonomy is important, and I have heard that most people who have addressed this matter agree on the importance of it. Then I would like to encourage the committee to examine in particular what is going to happen to the code of law that is holding on to what is in the law called abortion, i.e. the law on counselling and instruction regarding sex and pregnancy, abortion and sterilisation. Here we are talking about a new law code that will take a pregnancy break, as it will be now, and I want to reiterate that I'm very in favor of that name and that there's a much more vivid description of what is going on here. But now we're going to discuss a bill to legalize sterilization procedures. That leaves the section of the law on counseling and instruction regarding sex and having children. Because I haven't had time under these discussions to read specifically through it, I think it is very important to consider what is left behind in that law and whether it may need more change than is expected in this bill, where certain articles are being dismissed are subject to pregnancy break and sterilization. I think I've done pretty much all the things I wanted to deliver, but again I'll say it only takes another way once you've made such a long break in the discussion and discuss something completely different like a travel program. I think it's such a long time bill, and I want to thank you very much. Minister for presenting it at last now, and I also want to thank the highest. Minister for the talk earlier, especially when she encouraged us in our approach to this discussion, and I find that very important. This is a delicate matter, and I have a clear understanding that there may be differences of viewpoints, but there are also a lot of feelings. That's why I think it's very important that we go through this discussion and get in touch with the facts and data we have. Now, though, I'm not going to talk about people's feelings. Of course, it is only human nature to have it. But I want to reiterate what I said earlier in return to what I said. paritaprevir Sæland Happyland, I find it extremely important how we approach our discussion. I think the people who put up on this bill must realize the importance of it, because we have named and professional, we have tips from professionals and others, about the importance of attacking this transformation. Hence, it is important that this bill succeeds and that it becomes legal and that we approach the points of the law that people may have differing opinions and opinions in a grammatical way and that the discussion is handled.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u126	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I just have a quick question to ask. Senator. What is it in the old law that is so contrary to modern times? A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u127	A respectable president. What stands out in that regard is 9 p.m. It speaks of certain reasons, either social or medical, for abortion and how to evaluate them. ▪ As a result of social assessment, it should be taken into account whether the woman has been born a number of children at short intervals and has only a short period of time from her final pregnancy, whether the woman is suffering from an unsatisfactory or severely ill family situation, the woman is unable to give adequate attention to a child, or there are reasons that are well comparable to those above. The report says: This list does not reflect the circumstances that most women wishing for pregnancy break are facing today. I think it's one of the most important things to be doing, that there's a two parties, doctors, and sociologist, if I understand correctly, to determine if a woman meets the conditions that the Lawgiver thought to install in 1975, conditions that could be a possible reason why a woman wanted to have an abortion. I haven't read all the songs yet, and that's why I specifically encourage the committees to review the remainder of the law column. But these factors really sting me. In fact, celebrations have also noted that changes in these laws are necessary because they have become out - of - date in view of the circumstances that exist today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u128	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Then maybe I'd like to ask another question about this relationship. She lists these social reasons, that it is that her judgment is not in harmony with modern times. But it feels bad. A senator that this show has given up badly? I know why. A senator to deny abortion on such grounds? It was noted that more than 1,000 abortions were performed last year for social reasons. I don't see that there's a barrier in it, so it needs to be put down in the old law. My inquiry is this: A senator said that in some way it was bad?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u129	A respectable president. Yes, I believe that the law and the procedure are in general. When we get the tip from these sources that maybe these old laws aren't completely being followed, bells ring that we must have to change them. I don't know that someone has been denied that, unless there's a time limit. This article discusses the matter of judgment. But I think it's a time error that a woman needs to submit an application and that the application needs to be conducted until a member of a competent woman -- I'm going to put it in a pet store - to evaluate if it is really best for the woman to go this way. That is why I say, " I understand when people talk about time and ask, " What do we see? ' Are we talking about rape? People may say that a woman should have long ago found out that she was pregnant, long before 12 weeks of age or something like that has passed, that it should not be a problem, etc. Yet, there are examples of these things. I think we in this room could never capture all those examples and write them into lyrics. To say that I can only see that it is the simplest, secondly clear, and third, it may best be our policy of human rights, looking forward to the woman herself responsible for that decision, and best to evaluate it, whether it's the right way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u130	A respectable president. This is a matter of taking a false step and discussing a meeting board. But, hey. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson accused me of a high understanding of what. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason. Now it is that a review of this matter, about a transport plan, has been a bit of a one - sided. We were introduced on Tuesday after the last week that there was some kind of subcommittee on the environment and transport committee that would work closely with the Department of Transport after some of the errors that no one recognized. That was very strange. At any rate, a meeting was announced to the Subcommittee or something that I attended, which was right here in the Orbian room, and was standing for about half an hour. Me and what. paritaprevir Þorvaldsson Þór Þórðdóldsson was there with a bang. Senators Anna Sævarsdóttir and Vilhjálmur Árnason. It was now all a lot of teamwork, and it was a challenge. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason's son. paritaprevir Looks like Jón Gunnarsson was referring. [[The president calls.]] I can't possibly interpret it as if I've been working hard with what. A senator on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u131	Mr. President. We are discussing a big issue, and this deserves careful coverage. It also deserves a balanced debate because we are talking about major decisions and we are talking about decisions involving pregnancy ruptures, and that is material that is not to be spoken of or used with words that are meant to cause hurt, grief, or trials of those who have passed through it. That's why I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister of Svandís Svavarsdóttir for the bill. It seems to me that it is well prepared, well prepared, and well considered, in consultation with all kinds of people on the subject, and that's extremely important. In my opinion, it is primarily about women's self - determination rights and that the woman has authority over her body, and she makes decisions as to whether to break a pregnancy or not. So it's a woman's freedom of choice. It is also a matter of choosing one's own life. It's a long time, i.e. to bring present - day laws, which are very important. I also think it's a matter - because we've been staying here at a meeting board and we've been talking about all kinds of issues that have existed and differences - that we should be careful, rushed, and tried to talk us down to the best of our conclusions. I believe, as I've mentioned before, this is primarily about the woman's own right to make decisions. A woman may not have it under others whether she chooses to interrupt pregnancy or not. And no matter how well that committee is organized, no matter how well that committee is ill - mannered and wants to bear the interests of the woman and her life. Such a committee can never decide for the woman what she wants and what is best for her. The woman must be the best judge of what is best for her and what she wants for her life. We have a provision for the old law, which was made to speak up in reply. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's children had a word for it. paritaprevir Bryndís daughter Haraldsdóttir's argument that there would be certain reasons to allow abortion, as it was then, and that social reasons, so on. This is certainly not what is in harmony with today, so it is time to change that. I would like to quote the report on the occasion and the need for the Law because it is quite important to me. Starting quote, with president's permission: It would be important for Iceland to show respect for women in this country, respect for pregnancy break decisions, and self - custody, supported by professional education and advice based on knowledge. Is this in harmony with the development of human rights that has been in the process of increasing the self - custody of the individual? In this context, there are several international agreements and developments in their field of judgment, such as the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the European Convention of Human Rights, the United Nations Convention on Discrimination of Women, the European Council's Convention on Human Rights and Human Dignity, taking into consideration the activities of biology and medicine: the Convention on Human Rights and Geologists. That's 3rd. The United Nations Declaration of Human Rights states that everyone has the right to life, freedom, and immunity. The restrictions on women's right to break a pregnancy have been judged against comparable regulations in the Canadian Constitution of the Supreme Court in that country. This is from a report by the Committee that won, including to prepare this bill. I find it particularly interesting to look at what is mentioned there, which is the Supreme Court of Canada, where it is actually judged against human rights to limit the woman's right to pregnancy break. So I think it's a good thing, necessary thing. I'm gonna grab some more things. Many questions arise, such as those raised in Canada's Supreme Court: Is it the woman alone to determine this? The report, which discusses the constitution and international commitments, cites several judgments, such as those found in the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures. Prominent before the Court of Human Rights, and this says, by permission of the president: ▪ In the matter of Bosso v. Italy [...] the Court made a decision to dissuade a complaint of a offense against Article 8. the agreement with the argument that the rights of a potential father in the context of a pregnancy breaker should be taken primarily into account by the woman's rights as she is the dominant influence of pregnancy, as well as the continuation or discontinuation of the pregnancy. - It's amazing to read it. And go. The court did not consider the man's position on his return to decision-making. It leaves no doubt that the woman herself rules her own body. It is also appropriate to tie down what is stated in the report on page 13 with the permission of a president: ▪ The bill was emphasized as not going to the above type of rights by the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people is being spoken of as having the rights and rights of those who are disabled. Then it was emphasized to ensure that the bill is in harmony with Article 8. The contract for a state of consciousness. The article obligates countries to accept immediate, effective, and appropriate measures in order to counter standards, prejudice, and harmful practices related to disabled people, including those that can be applied for sex and age, in all areas of human life. This leads only to other things that are certainly related to the subject of the bill that was here at the beginning of the discussion, and it is screening and the use of screening to identify, what to say, the health or condition of the fetus, or the possibility that the fetus is not within any human sense of being some kind of norm and the consequences of it. I can pretty much suggest how far it has been in that all women or most women, I dare not take too much into my mouth, go to all sorts of screens. Happily, most of us are good for our health, and pregnancy usually goes smoothly. That is the principle. You can ask yourself, " How far should I go unless there are clear reasons for applying the screening process? ' Of course, at the time of screening, there may be some things that might affect the woman's feelings and attitude toward the pregnancy. I think it's okay to discuss this in context, but I'm happy to hear what's said in the grandest case. Ministers that these matters were being examined in an appropriate place. I'd like to, too, because it's important that all of these things be well discussed, just mentioned in the report on the subject on which words are addressed and quoted, with the permission of a president: The importance of the first chapter of the law for counseling and instruction was emphasized by the Icelandic nurses. I think it's a very important factor, that counseling and education are available to women when and if they consider pregnancy break. It's a tough decision. I know that women do not make such a decision, and they do not want to make such a decision unless they have a matter taken care of it, and it is very important to help and support them. I continue to quote the leftover quote with permission of the president: If the Society thought that it was important to change the pregnancy violations of the law, it would be important to do so. The Society stressed that a woman's self - determination over her body would be respected, reflecting today's attitudes and requirements. It was said that women should not have to waive their rights to their relatives, doctors or social advisers, [...] and that the Society did not consider such fate acceptable. Also stated in the report, by permission of the president: It says that in Iceland's Women's Court of Rights, an international community has been exposed to the need to ensure that women can break up pregnancy on their own wish and that it is long ago time for a review of the legislation to move it to modern times and accept the sexual freedom of women and the control of women over their own body. I'm not going to go in on my own with the individual regulations of the bill. I like it. It's clear, it's short, it's simple in itself. But it's very important. But I might want to do it right in the end. I can't quite help it if I mention 5. ..... a pregnancy break-off in a young girl who is illegal for childhood. I think this is very important, and as it happens to a child's agent, that it is not safe and not desirable that parents could somehow have a decision in behalf of a daughter or a girl or a young woman on such an important decision. It must be your child's own or your adolescent's decision to make, for once again the decision must be stressed to them that it is not too good for them and that education is good. In such cases it may be even more important that decisions are made on a foundation as enlightened as any possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u132	Mr. President. I have listened as much as possible today to many of the talks being held here. They have been interesting, many very good, and there have been a number of viewpoints that I'm not going to trace here or talk in the middle of this matter, that's a lot of talk. There's kind of one line I want to take on this. It is the one that I really care about, which involves the self - determination of people in general and on the other hand, that when society agrees on some things, the community is a community structure that supports individuals in trying to live by it. I would like to begin by saying that the purpose of this law, to ensure the autonomy of women who want to break their pregnancies, and to respect it by granting them safe access to health care in accordance with the laws and ensuring their head custody of their own bodies, is something I fully uphold 100%. I'm going to describe just what stratosphere I went through during the discussion. V.E.G. A minister proposes the review of a bill that will allow permission until the end of the 18th week. All right. It's something that's really good for what's right now. All the legal procedures on this case are right from now on. Then this 22 - week bill comes out. It took a little self - examination for me to go through whether there was something I'd be comfortable with. I examined the data and figures that showed that where there is freedom of this kind, the legislation is that way, it doesn't mean any increase, like the highest level. As a matter of fact, a minister answered me today, not increasing the number of pregnancy breakes or the passing of time. But what this does is that it will wipe out this interval that should be done, i.e. The self - determination rights of women are complete to a degree, 18 weeks in the case of the bill images, after which special circumstances are needed. And the special situation, apart from the possible life and health of the individual woman, is that there is something wrong with the fetus, i.e. Some anomalies, some disability. We've started to process this a little bit, and that's what I'm not interested in. I like this approach, that it's 22 weeks, in view of the information that has been shown on the effects it has had in many places. But saying this, I'm also interested in discussing, as I came into my answers earlier today, these screens, which, yes, are in the underlying part of all this, the timing of waste, and the vast number of women who go on waste. I think I'm right about that there are 100% of women who go to 12 weeks and about 80% that go later. So I'm going outside the material right now, we're very impressed, very busy with the screenings in the country, and in some field of health care, it calls for overcubes. It's like some kind of stuff that we're not quite able to figure out how to use. But what I think is important, and I know the highest. A minister will agree there with me, and she has a bit of a point to say right now, is that at the same time we will ensure that society will do as it can best - we can do it through the law code, and we can do it through all kinds of things - and that when disabled people come into the world, they also have the same conditions as others do for the good of life, education, grows up, and then we can do the right work when they grow up. That we are on the verge that our community will be as welcome to all the people in its variety of births. I think diversity is one of the big things. I've often listened to that question here why it's not all right just as it is, because even though the letter of the law is not very modern, we have some updates there, they're mentioned, and it's been stated here that there are not many women who have been rejected on the request for a pregnancy break. But it's just a fact that there's an obstacle to having to sign up for someone else to meet some of the conditions that have been set for making this decision, regardless of whether it's approved or not, just by having to go through this, the decision has been made by a woman. I've been looking at the state of the North. Well, there's a lot of different goings around. I have observed trends in Norway, where the will of individual groups has been to harden the grip of this so that the weather in many parts of the world quickly takes place. I think it's extremely important to take this law through now so it's undisputed. I believe this will have a positive effect on the women who, for one reason or another, have to go through thinking about it and then make a decision about pregnancy break. I'm sure that doesn't make anyone funny. I am convinced that once the law has been changed so that they have this right themselves, that they don't have to sit down and file their case or ask for permission, it will be easier for them to do so. This does not mean that they will receive all the help they want, if they do. I'm not going to, Mr. President, extend my case any further. I just wanted to make this point, on the other hand, why I came to the conclusion, again, after wandering between 18 and 22 weeks, that I'd like it this way, and the emphasis on the fact that the whole screening thing is going to be examined, and I'm glad that it's the highest level. Minister has talked about it and is working on it. I think it's very important that we take a good look at our journey there. Overall, as always in the case of equality, I welcome this bill and wish it would be soon to be accomplished.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u133	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. She spoke a little about counseling, and she's probably referring to a social adviser in that regard. Now this new bill allows you to plan that you do not need to go that way with advisers. I wonder what. A senator might be able to determine what she was holding on to, whether women would continue to seek advice, whether she thinks it is. And if this new bill becomes legal, it has become optional. Besides, you can wonder which way. A senator knows if there are any numbers and would be interesting to know how many women have quit the abortion after consulting him. Now I don't know what it is. A senator knows this, but her mind is in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u134	Mr. President. It's embarrassing, it's late in the evening, and I've forgotten the first part of the question. It was about counseling, whether I thought they liked it... [[Consider: Whether they would continue to seek advice.]] Yes, yes, exactly, now that it's become optional, so to speak. I don't know, of course, but I think that's why. A senator is primarily wondering what I'm feeling about it. I imagine some women would do it and others wouldn't. It will likely depend on various factors. Depending on the reason they have a head for considering this and their social situation, their environment and potential personality too, just as with so many other things in life. At times, people make enormous decisions on their own and do not need any other support. At times, it is good to have it, and some may seek that support at home or from close family members or friends, while others do not have it. And then it is likely that some of the reasons women have for being on this other road may be complex, so that literally such counseling is needed and possibly medically. Others may want some religious nature, those reasons are endless. I'm not sure this will be something that will fall down, i.e. This advice. I suppose there will be some who will seek such counseling. As for the numbers, if anyone has stopped, I admit I have no idea. I haven't even wondered about it. I can't answer that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u135	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I understand that she may not have those numbers on her hands. But this is something, I think, which is important to be discussed within the Committee and whether there are any information about how many women have discontinued an abortion because they took counselling and the advice led to an abortion loss. I think that figure must exist and be highly desirable, in my opinion, that it would be discussed within the Committee. Also, do not forget that counselling, a social worker in this case, is likely to wonder about the possibilities in the situation of counselling a woman and considering an abortion. One of those possibilities is to walk with the child and then give it as a adoption, so it is an important option for a difficult situation in my opinion. That's why I think it's very important that this advice is available, and of course it should be free of charge. I'm a little worried about it in the bill, that this will no longer be required, and women will even be missing important advice. So I would like to encourage the committee to examine this aspect of the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u136	Yes, thank you. A senator and I will hear what he says and what worries him. He has, as it were, already discussed in the discussion. I am confident that the committee will take the various smells of this matter for a good consideration. I'm sorry, for example. Regarding the counselling, it is prudent to reason with others, and this is the case: Are there numbers on women who have been screened, received information that the foetus is disabled in any way and found advice on the best method of pregnancy discontinuation? It is also an interesting question to answer. Counseling can, as it were, lead people in different directions, and there is nothing wrong with counseling. I'll take part in a discussion about it every day. But I will never compromise that there will be no more than counselling, for the woman is the right of decision to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u137	A respectable president. It discusses just an amazing and enormously important matter that is involved in ensuring the autonomy of women who wish for pregnancy to be respected by self - custody. I'm not going to have any opinion of the subject because I think it's just that it's not available to me in any way, but what I can think of is how the bill was won. I think there's something I need to do. On page 14, late and finally on the bill, because this is a very important report, chapter 5 for consultation. The panel is on one of seven pages of the collection, before furthering up the bill, the reviews of 19 members, as well as from the Icelandic nurses' club, National Institutes for Down syndrome, and the National Institutes of Development, the Society of Childhood and Women's Diseases, the Women's Rights Association of Iceland, and the Children's Office. Then, as the bill was completed, according to this report, a large group of professionals, health institutions in all the country's medical institutions, Iceland's Medical Association, the Icelandic Nurses' Office, the Féag of Precise and Women's Diseases, the National Institute of Development, the Organization of Interests for Down syndrome, Iceland's Women's Women's Women's Hospital, the Office of National Health and Justice. Also, the committees were sent to the Committee on the Total Revision of the Law and were given the option for comment. Then it was published on the Board of Directors' mystery. There were 11 reports of organizations and organizations and 40 of individuals. There were reviews from the Ministry of Justice, the office of Attorney General, the Feminist Association of the University of Iceland, the partner of the amateurs of Down syndrome, and the National Institutes of Development, who shared the reviews, the Society of Childhood and Nurses, the Social Counseller of Iceland, the Catholic Church, Iceland's Women's Women's Social Association, Land Hospital, the National State Health Association of the State and Children. Among the reports from individuals were gynaecologists, pediatrics, home doctors, midwives active in the field of embryo analysis, and a lot of experts in the fields of gender, political, and other sources. I feel that it is necessary to express the point of the discussion. In addition to this, it can be added, which is not in the bill, to the highest level. A minister entered the councils and introduced the subject of the bill to handle the matter very carefully, so that everyone had a common understanding of how the matter was going. Simply put, I have to come in a symposium to give exact commendation, for this has been a tremendous success in the bill. I trust each other. Halldóra Mogensen's well - being committee and its chairman to continue the case and continue the professional work that has so far turned into the hands of the Generals. I look forward to seeing the next step, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u138	Mr. President. I'm glad that this case has come out and thanks to the highest degree. A health minister for working hard. I have been waiting for this bill with considerable anticipation for a report of a well-known group of workers, and I would like to start by celebrating especially those who have not received any special attention. That's why I want to start by saying that if this bill that law is no longer a legal authority, at least not a clear word, and I hope that it will no longer be in law, that a law-enforced woman can decide on her behalf that she doesn't know her own body and that she doesn't have her own right to it. So he can apply to have a pregnancy break for her. We do, in fact, still have the legal authority in the current legal law that the legal guardian of a woman can force her into pregnancy. I have always felt that it is not shown up in the service group report. That's all I thought was missing from that report, because it's very extensive and good, and it takes all the major interests and the group really gets off. It was the only thing that I felt was missing, that it just couldn't be done that way, because a special U.S. ambassador has observed in the United Nations a prohibition against torture and other disrespectful and inhuman treatment or punishment, that forcing women on abortion or sterilization, or whatever it is now, could be regarded as torture and should be regarded as torture. In other words, we still have a law of torture, which is from 1975 when there is no special respect for women's self - determination. And this led me to what was supposed to be the beginning of my speech, and I felt very important that this would be done, that there is a difference. This is important because it is very ugly and contrary to all the human rights that we say we respect and that I love, that this law is still in our law today. But as far as women's self - determination rights are concerned, the law goes from 1975, as far as I know. Their agreement at the time was somewhat controversial. At that time, women had no special reason to argue until week 12 why they chose to break. They could only seek that medical help and get it. But it was not all right at the time that women had the personal right to decide for themselves whether they would end their pregnancy or not. That is why these conditions for the CHEP committee taking the decision on the woman's behalf were placed in their license for the woman to have a pregnancy break. The reasons were so grouped and set. The woman needed to have social and medical reasons, and there was a process for it. There had to be some special excuse for the decision. I feel that there is a requirement for a highly out - of - date, old - fashioned thinking that it takes some expert committee to decide that women have to make any excuse that they prefer not to go through a nine - month process, even further, in which life is transformed by that woman, and then she needs to be with the child for the next few decades, if not all her life. I'm glad we're getting out of that way right now with this bill and that we're leaving requiring some justification and some excuse for the fact that women control their own bodies and what they do about it. This is not to be, so we need to offer excuses or explanations on how we choose to make arrangements for our lives and members, or so we should. This leads me to what I have heard, that only a few years ago. Senators here do not seem entirely convinced of the merit of this bill. They worry that women no longer seek advice, be obliged to get advice on contraception, have children, and I don't know what to read from the law, and that adult women no longer become forced to listen to expert advice on how to conduct their mother's womb. That they may stop seeking advice, and as a result, there will be some sort of confusion, some sort of lower moral sense left in those women who will refuse to seek advice because the lawgiver no longer appeals them to do so. I have to say, I generally find it ugly to force people to get some advice, and I'm rather humiliating and disparaging toward women to skim it as the situation is now in getting advice on contraception and other things. Not all women need advice on that. It is ridiculous just to place some obligation on them to accept it. Besides, I've been worried about the idea that women need more support and more advice on adoption, about the possibility of giving birth to a child. I'll connect it to a few things. This meditation has come from the source. The members of the Central Party, which is on the bill submitted. I find it a bit difficult to talk about it because I find it so incredibly ridiculous. But okay. They suggest that pregnant women receive special consideration for the use of children and receive them and give them adoption, rather than pregnancy break. This idea is presented at the same time. According to members of Congress, women need advice on all the ways in which they can walk with a child they don't want to have, and they give it to adopt. At the same time, it is said that people who cannot bear children and those who are born without children must feel bad about the discussion that now the right to break a pregnancy. These women are impervious to want to rid themselves of completely viable children of their kind, when there are people here who need children. This is exactly the atmosphere and the ideologies I believe to be. The members of the Central Party are moving women. They are youths, and if they have viable embryos within them, they should try hard to get them to wear them so that they can get a missing child. Another is simply a waste of a good fetus and a good hatcher and her ability to keep her pregnant until she has been placed on the plane. These are the intellectual connections I get about these words. I think it's ugly. I think it's really ugly, because there's enough of trying to put a guilty conscience into women's brains forever because of everything they do, and then especially about what has to do with their core, their body. I don't like the fact that this is the way women should think about people who can't have children before thinking about whether they want to wear children or not. I just think it's a really bad beat, I have to say it. I think it's dog-slash. Of course, you can swear it just because you're saying it, but I'd like to keep it in place that the Central Party has a suggestion to pay you to be a surrogate. It's a hatching machine. For walking with a child they don't want to walk with and get paid for it. I think it's disgusting, so I'll get to it now. [[Take it up, now it's here.]] - And now her. Exactly. Then I'd like to come to a slightly different matter. I don't have very much time left, but I'm sure I'll give some more talks on this subject. Reflecting on when life begins and when a person comes into existence and what is the woman's self - determination toward the child and what about the father and all of that. I'd like to keep it up that it's been discussed for decades and only for a very long time, let's say, if not years. But now we have at least a beautiful institution called the European Court of Human Rights and a beautiful contract called the European Convention. It is mentioned in 2 gr. that everyone has an inborn right to life. The history of the European Court of Human Rights, which I take seriously, has made it clear that the woman has the right to her own body and that the interests of a father take care of that woman's interests or the interests of the fetus, let's say, must be replaced by the interests of the woman who walks with the foetus. He doesn't have a right to make decisions about women's bodies, unfortunately. It's just that, that's human rights. I'm sorry to inform you about this, but that's the right to life interpreted, and that's the way women's own right is interpreted. This has been discussed for a very long time, back and forth. There seems to be a somewhat shaped conclusion to this matter. We'll take our own advice. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] And finally, on another human rights matter, because they are very dear to me. This is about the discussions on abortion and that women choose to break their pregnancy after they find that a child is severely disabled and why we don't make some exceptions and why we don't stop this before, and all these things. It has been noted whether there is some form of disability because there is a possibility that a woman may decide to break a pregnancy after the child is found to be severely disabled or so. I would like to say: In the current law, the lawgiver gives an exception to the principle that pregnancy should not be broken after week 12 if a child is considered to be severely disabled at the time of screening. By that law, the lawgiver is saying that it is an excuse, that there is reason to compromise the principle that the fetus is seriously disabled or likely to be seriously disabled. I feel that it is far worse to see the lawyer's attitude toward disabled persons than that women merely hire them because, in spite of all things, we cannot take that choice away from the woman. We may feel that it is morally reprehensible to choose this route, but we cannot force women to wear likely a severely disabled child. It must be their own decision. I don't think it's okay for the lawgiver to say: Yes, it's an excuse to break a pregnancy if a fetus is likely to get seriously disabled. Besides, I don't think it's okay for the lawyer to make this decision because it certainly involves making a big commitment, and not everyone can live up to it, but the statistics have shown us that a minority of those who get information about serious birth defects, serious chromosomal defects, chooses to break out of pregnancy after receiving that information. They're in much smaller parts. I feel that women are becoming overly conflicted in this discussion, that if they don't get any advice, they'll do something stupid. If they allow them to decide for themselves, they will make some terrible decisions and will rush straight to a land hospital for a pregnancy break. I don't think these spokesmen are for the better. I feel that women should be entrusted with authority of their own body, because we have our own bodies and I'm being led by a dog at someone who's going to tell me something else. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u139	A respectable president. Thank you for a very good discussion. In many respects, this discussion contains a number of news. First of all, I want to say that I am especially pleased to have experienced the powerful women's solidarity that I have sensed here and heard at the assembly, which is indiscriminately organized and reflected in speeches. paritaprevir Thorhna's Ævarsdóttir Övarsdónar and other council members who have spoken at the end of the convention have, of course, spoken into this stream. It's time for us to update these legislation in Iceland. I would like to read a portion of a talk to remind us of how much of the discussion here is timeless. It's a big speech. A deputy member of the Democratic Community of 1975, Soffía Guðmundsdóttir, held at the General Assembly. When she made her own recommendation for the change of bill to a bill that had been changed to the point that three men had been assigned to ensure that the experts cared for the women, she said, with the permission of a president: ▪ It has been observed many times in conferences and outside discussions and does not charge to repeat the fact that such authority over life and the destiny of others is not to be placed in the hands of anyone. But it can truly be said that the male power is not mocked, as was the first day. This is the year 1975, and later the talk, with the permission of the president, says: ▪ It is only after the suggestion that the principal defender, the woman herself, accepts the decision course, makes a firm decision, and therefore seems to be prepared only to accept permission to abortion that it is certain that someone other than the woman herself will make a decision there. There are many other fine chapters in this talk, and it is also interesting when she says: This is typical of women's rights, for this is exactly the woman's right to self - control and responsibility. That right has always been severed, and so it is. All the legal requirements that a woman admits to as an individual have long met with fierce resistance. It is enough to remind women of the struggle for financial rights, for education and work, that the fight for elections and votes is not too much. Sadly, there is still much to be said about the present. paritaprevir Soffía Guðmundsdóttir said here at the General Assembly and reminds us that this right has to be picked up constantly and every day. Therefore, in particular, I rejoice over the scope of political agreements on the importance of this matter, although, unfortunately, we have seen it in the last election that there was a relapse to women's freedoms at the General Assembly. It was not only a setback in the destruction of women at the General Assembly but also a setback to the discussions of society and the introduction of groups that speak against feminist freedom. I'm afraid we've heard a speech of that kind a day from what happened. Councilmen of Stockholm and members of the Central Party. But what I hear in this discussion is that in this crucial winter of our Common Era, in which we have faced very difficult things which cut close to our belief that our women's freedom is real in Iceland, there is a unique opportunity where we can change this legislation set Iceland where it wants to be with liberal and more powerful legislation in the world where the sexual rights of women and self-control are respected. A relapse to a ballot number at the last election is not to prevent us from doing so because we are able to put up such a good deal, regardless of government or government, and we are to do so. I'd like to mention some points from the discussion. Some members of the Senate called the Canadian Supreme Court's conclusions on removing the law, and several members of the Parliament named it here, the fact that the Supreme Court of Canada based on a provision in the constitution of the right to life, freedom, and privacy. Who? The mother. The wife. It is the woman who owns this constitutionr's right to do so that time restrictions had been canceled. Despite the number of weeks being considered, the Netherlands has a very low frequency of pregnancy discontinuation because there is a high level of training and advice on sexual health. Along with these laws, we have a bill that has been named the pill bill and is to make sure that midwives and nurses can prescribe oral contraceptives, and we also create a new professional advice on sex disorders. These factors are concomitantly discussed with the bill as the co-administration must be increased in education, improved access to contraception, etc. Another point of fact is that Sweden uses legislation in the north. There are 18 weeks before the end of the ninth week more measures than in other parts of the North countries. Why? Because greater education is also there. That means the number of weeks that such has nothing to say, at least not in these control countries, on how many abortions are decided or carried out, how many pregnancy breakes, how late the process, etc. The point is that the requirement for self - determination of women is not a matter of weeks. It is about the woman's authority over her body and that no one else can decide whether she will have her pregnancy broken or not. Neither experts, doctors, social workers, nor others who claim to be experts can make her body legal in that matter. A respectable president. I thank you for a very good discussion, and I hope that's what you're doing. The welfare committee will lead to this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u140	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize sterilization procedures. The background of this case is the same as the fate of a bill to correct a pregnancy break mentioned earlier. A health - care minister ordered a committee to work on a total review of the law No. 25/1975, advice on sexual advice and training on pregnancy and abortion and sterilisation. The committee returned a report in November 2016 to the minister's office, and it even proposed that the Commission report in November 2016. so that the law would be divided. The committee thought that pregnancy breakers and sterilization procedures should not be addressed in the same law, where there is very direct action and there is no evidence that they are discussed in the same law. So I recommend a bill for a special sterilization form. The Committee's proposal was to reduce the age limit of sterilization procedures to 18 years in accordance with current legal laws, to allow only a child to be sterilized for medical reasons if the life or health of a girl were put at risk with pregnancy or birth or if the child was alone to become seriously deformed and/or life-threatening, and thirdly to eliminate all discrimination in the law against disabled persons. A respectable president. To clarify the historical context of this subject, I would like to discuss only the laws that have been valid in this country regarding sterilization until now. With law No. 38/1935, who were discussing earlier today, were the first laws on sterilization. The law even permitted the law. A doctor, if necessary, should injuring a woman if she wished to. As we considered the need for this, social status was permitted. These narrow sources of sterilization for social reasons included: that a woman had many children at short intervals. In 1938 law No. 16 about allowing, in appropriate circumstances, measures to be taken by people that should prevent them from increasing their gender. The law provided permission for the decadences, abuse, and pregnancy breakes. In 1975, current laws were adopted at the General Assembly. In III. the section of the law is specifically discussed about sterilization procedures. The law allows a person to perform a sterilization procedure if the person is more than 25 years old and wishes strongly and to consider carefully whether he or she will be prevented or increased in sex and if there are no medical reasons to prevent surgery. It is also permitted to perform a sterilization procedure if a person is not above 25 years of age, if the woman's health may be exposed to pregnancy and parturition, if birth and prefect of children are under stress or is guided by the family's standard of life and for other reasons, if a disease, physical or mental disorder, severely reduces her ability to care and raise children, and when it is expected that a child should be at risk of birth defects, or if a serious disease due to genetic or foetal injury occurs. If a person has not had a suitable age, one of the experts who performs the operation if a person has reached the age of 25 but is permanently unable to recognize the consequences of the procedure for the stated reasons. A respectable president. Iceland now has a validated United Nations agreement on the rights of disabled people. One of the commitments between Iceland and the Member States to the contract is to make all the appropriate measures to ensure that existing laws, regulations, customs or practices involving discrimination against disabled persons will be changed or removed. At the Parliamentary resolution adopted at the General Parliament, laws would be discussed that would be treated on grounds of non-contracted regulations. Any current legislation on pregnancy break and sterilization procedures there is specific and should be specifically referred to in regulations 23 and 25. The deal. 23rd degree. magazines are discussed with respect for home and family, which includes family respect. the right of disabled persons to establish and marry, but their right to maintain fertility is also recognized. Twenty-fiveth. will be discussed on health matters, but it has the accepted rights of disabled persons to enjoy good health to the highest level, as can be most severe, without discrimination due to disability, but it should also be done by Member States to ensure that disabled persons have access to a sex - oriented health service. The article also requires that Member States provide disabled persons with health care, including those for whom the need is greater. with regard to sexual and fertility health, and special emphasis on the fact that disabled people have access to the same service as others, and the requirement for healthcare professionals to care for those who are as well as others, including those who are disabled. on the basis of free and informed consent. A respectable president. The bill presented here is written with regard to the viewpoint. Furthermore, it is emphasized that the bill is compatible with Article 8. The contract, which deals with commitments of countries to increase respect for the rights and the human dignity of disabled people and to counter standards, prejudice, and harmful habits associated with disabled people. I view the laws of the current law as failing to meet the demands of the contract in this respect, and in these, prejudices against disabled people who have fallen for the sake of the movies and the harmful practices associated with disabled people. In particular, I refer to the laws of the law, which provide sufficient documents for sterilization of individuals due to disease, physical or mental illness, or as stated in paragraph 22. The law of the law, if the person is affected by mental illness, severe mental deficiency, or other mental illness, is permanently unable to recognize the consequences of the procedure. So I suggest in the bill that a sterilization procedure will only be allowed if a person asks for such an operation if he reaches 18 years of age. It is thus planned that when sterilization is carried out, the bill will become the law of human rights and people of the people. The only minimum submitted is 2nd. Section 3. The bill is authorized to perform a sterilization procedure on a person who is illegal for childhood reasons where a person's fertility may be expected to have a serious impact on the person's life or health, and there are conditions for confirmation of two physicians as well as for the approval of a specially appointed lawyer. It is suggested that prior to performing a sterilization procedure an individual should be instructed in each procedure, the risks of the procedure, and the consequences of it. It is then suggested that only physicians with specialist authority in general surgeons, gynecologists or uraemic surgery should perform infertility surgery and that sterilisation procedures should be performed only in medical institutions or clinics supervised by surgeons. This law allows more than the current legislation where sterilisation is permitted only in hospitals. It is suggested that the current system be maintained, but sterilization procedures are conditional, and that arrangements will be carried out by law. A respectable president. At the beginning of the Commission's work on the total law review, they requested comments and suggestions on changing the law. These are the reviews given in the bill, but the bill was prepared with the direct comments. The bill was also published in the House of Control and received a single review. The review was from the National Institutes of Development, but the organization emphasized that in the bill it would be guaranteed to the rights of disabled persons and, in particular, those with developmental inhibition or related disorders to the use of inadvisability on all that would be discussed in the bill and that they would be assured of the support that the person would need to new his civilization. In view of the objective and subject of the bill, there was no reason to make changes in the bill because of the report. A respectable president. The bill is aimed at ensuring self - custody to make a decision regarding sterilization. The bill also involves the application of the applicant's age limit for sterilization procedures in accordance with the legal requirements. However, the number of sterilization operations is not considered to be an increase in the law, and this is mainly based on the theory that most persons undergoing sterilization are in the age of 3,35444 years. A respectable president. I've now explained the basics of the bill. Self - custody of individuals, enlightened individual consent, education, quality and security of the ministry, and liberation are guaranteed by the bill presented here instead of custody and authority based on old - fashioned views of preventing certain groups of society from enjoying the same rights to sexual and fertility health as others. So I'll allow myself to suggest that the bill be after the 1st. Refer to the welfare committee and to the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u141	Mr. President. I hereby recommend the State Department for Internal Affairs, as Mr. President mentioned at the outset, on the proposal to consecrate the decision of the joint EEA committee, No. 21/2018 of the change in IX. A supplement on financial services and XII. An appendix on free capital transport and XXII. Annex on company rights at the EEA Convention. The proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the decision of the joint Commission, No. 21/2018 of February 9, 2018, of the change in IX. Annex on financial services, XXII. An appendix on free capital transport and XXII. Annexes to the Commission Convention on May 2, 1992 and to enter the Treaty of the European Parliament and Council 2014/59, which sets up the restoration and re-treatment of loans and stocks and changes to the Directive 82/891 and Directives of 2001, 2002, 2004, 2005, 2007, 2011, 2012 and 2013, as well as to Council Regulations and Council No. 1003/2010 and No. 648/2012. Six months' delay in the EEA Convention to defuse administrative warnings was issued to 9 August 2019. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 7. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. No. No. No. No. 59/2014 of improvements and return management of financial companies suggests action and action to deal with financial management difficulties. Such companies and organisations must make a specific reimbursement programme that will prepare them for difficulties in business and that a specific management or administrative unit, called the head of the administration, will provide a specific return plan which they can successfully implement if necessary to cope with problems in the management of larger loan institutions. The directive also aims to minimise the negative consequences of financial problems by ensuring continued systematicly important activities of the enterprise or company while limiting the risk of problems requiring donations from the state fund. The directive contains a return fund. It is aimed at ensuring short-term funding because of a number of retreatment measures. The funds will become a core policy for finance. The cost will be estimated to increase for the financial companies that fall under the rules and may change the business's risk balance, as the rules apply to shareholders and creditors will bring a larger proportion of damage if they have a financial business problem. This is shown in a committee program. The Foreign Affairs Committee that the public has a great deal of interest in the commitment of financial markets, the crisis, and the small financial cost, if any, will be funded by tax contributions. Part of Directive No. 59/2014 has already improved in financial law, No. 161/2002. The following regulations will be implemented by the proposed sentence of a new overall restoration layer and the return therapy of financial companies. It is then assumed that financial and economic ministers will bring such a bill to the current legislature. Under this view, publications from Rósa María Bryfjordsdóttir, chairman of the hula. State Department, Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, Trausti Sigri Guðmundsson, Ásgerður K. Gylfadóttir, Bríti Haraldsdóttir, Logi Einarsson, Þorgerður K. Gunnarsdóttir, Óskarsdóttir, and Little Mccarthy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u142	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a state-of-the-art committee apparition proposal to conspire with the confirmation of the decision made by the European Commission No. 153/2018 of change in XI. Annexes, electronic communications, audio and image sharing and information community, with the EEA Convention. The aforementioned opinion is as follows: The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Bergþór Magnússon and Pétur Gunnarsson from the Ministry of State and Sigríður Rafnar Pétursdóttir from the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs. The proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the decision of the joint Commission No. 153/2018, of July 6, 2018, of the change in XI. Annexes, electronic communications, audio and video sharing and information community, with the EEA Convention on May 2, 1992, and enter the Convention of the European Parliament and Council (EU) 2017/899 from 17 May 2017 on the use of the frequency range in the context. Six months' delay in the EEA Convention was provided for the recovery of administrative warnings to January 6, 2019. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 7. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. Member States in the EEA shall no later than 30 June 2020 have authorized the use of this designated frequency area, usually known as the 700 MHz frequency range for high-speed grid services. Iceland has gone beyond most European countries in releasing this range of frequencies so that it can be assigned to use for high-speed transport services. Prior to the use of this service, users of wireless media and other media systems will be notified of their plans. These persons have been authorized to use a part of the frequency area with translucency sources until high speed grid services begin in the estimated frequency range. The integration is aimed at ensuring the spread of high-speed vehicles which will ensure that the population of the Member States at least 30 MB/s data speed as well as ensuring free wireless television broadcasts to the same party. In addition, a wireless device used for multimedia purposes should be accessed to the frequency range in the years to come. Then digital TV broadcasts should have their priority in the lower part of the UHF frequency range (470◯694 MHz) with wireless devices for the media. The decision does not affect the right of Member States to organise and use their frequency range for the general public, public safety and protection. Then there is no official financial commitment in the induction of the decision. Implementation calls for changes in communication laws, No. 81/2003. Transport and Regional Ministers are expected to impose on the current legislature of legislation a bill to change the law. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted. The Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir's daughter was absent from the case. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Under certain publications: Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, Logi Sigri Einarsson, Gentor K. Gylfadóttir, Bárfjörndóttir, María Brynlfótir, Smári Mccarthy, Óskarsdóttir Marjuarsdótir, and Gögir K. Þorgerður's Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u143	A respectable president. I hereby present a commission from the Foreign Affairs Commission on a proposal for the resolution of the EEA agreement. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Bergþór Magnor Magnússon and Pétur Gunnarsson from the Ministry of State and the Ástríður of Scheving Thorsteinsson from the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs. The proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the decision of the joint Commission No. 152/018, July 6, 2018, of the change in XI. Annex to the EEA Convention on May 2, 1992, and enter the Convention Directive of the European Parliament and Council 2014/61/EU from 15 May 2014 on measures to reduce the costs of building on electronic high-speed exchange networks Six months' delay in the EEA Convention was provided for the recovery of administrative warnings to January 6, 2019. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 7. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. The aim of the EU communication programme on the access of all citizens of the Union to a more intensive high-speed network service prior to 2020 is the result of the implementation of the directive's declaration. Similar goals have also been set in the Allied Communication Programme. The directive is aimed at paying for the building of communications timbers, mainly in the fixation of fiber optics, by promoting a more synergistic effect on the coordination of communications and services. The general right of communications and services is recommended to provide access to their physical infrastructure and their duties to meet reasonable requests for access in order to build high - speed exchange systems on the basis of reasonable conditions and conditions. In this way, users of the infrastructure have a mutual right to coordinate the implementation of infrastructure projects in order to provide the most practical framework for infrastructure development. This is especially true in areas where the market market does not trust to build infrastructure on its own, but could do so in cooperation with others and especially with service companies and other infrastructure companies. The government will then receive both the role and the means to encourage this development, such as the development of an internal database, the sharing of information and guidance for interest stakeholders and the ruling authority in conflict. The implementation of the directive will result in both direct and indirect costs for the state, rural society, hosting companies, and even the road structure. The cost is to define a policy of control that can carry out the tasks required by the directive and to create a database and render service to it. If the combined use of existing databases is allowed, the stock costs can be estimated to be about 20 billion. K. and the increase in cost of operating due to increasing work values and the continuing cost of the database will be about 15◯25 billion. K. every year. Semitic costs may be expected to be involved in the need to consider the compatibility of other people in their building programs, which could enhance the misunderstandings and the cost of construction. According to the Post and Communication Network, the national benefit will outweigh the indirect costs. Implementing the Decision calls for changes in communication, No. 81/2003. Then we will see if any further laws have to be changed. Transport and Regional Ministers are expected to impose on the current legislature of legislation a bill to change the law. There will also be agreements with the Department of Employment and Development during the induction process. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted. The Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir's daughter was absent from the case. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Under the opinion of the above committee, Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Ásgerður K. Gylfadóttir, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, Logi Einarsson, Rósa Björk Guðjónsdóttir, Smári Mccarthyr, and Óskarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u144	Mr. President. I hereby recommend the National Committee's Committee's Committee on a proposal to consecrate the decision made by the Joint EEA Committee on the Change of XI. An Annex to electronic signatures and other related electronic actions to the EEA Convention. The proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the decision of the joint Commission No. 22/2018, of February 9, 2018, of the change in XI. Annex to the EEA Convention on May 2, 1992, and enter into the contract of the Council Regulation and Council Regulation No. 910/2014 from 23 July 2014 on electronic authentication and trust services for electronic transactions on the internal market and the deletion of Directive 1999/93. The aim of the Regulation is to establish electronic communications between Member States and ensure the safety of electronic business within the Union. The implementation of the Regulation calls for legal modifications and new legislation on electronic signatures instead of on law No. 28/2001. Travel, industrial and innovation ministers are expected to present such a bill to the current legislature council. The committee suggests that the proposal will be adopted, but a further article is presented in the National Committee's Committee of State Affairs. The Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir's daughter was absent from the case. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Under the heading, Áslaug Þorgerður K. Sigurbjörnsdótttir of K. Gylfadóttir, Ari Trausti Haraldsdóttir, Bárísdóttir, Logi Einar Einarsson, Una María Óskarsdóttir Brynjólfsdóttir, Smári Mccarthy, Undarsdótir Undarsdótir and Þýrýðir K. Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u145	A respectable president. I would like to recommend the Committee for State Affairs Committee members. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Bergþór Magnússon and Pétur Gunnarsson from the Ministry of State and Harpa Theodórsdóttir frá the atvinnuvega of - og nýsköpunarráðuneyti. The proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the decision of the joint Commission No. 102/018, March 23, 2018, of the change in XXII. Annex, Correspondence, and Protocol 37 to the EEA Convention, May 2, 1992, and to enter the contract of the following types: The European Parliament and Council 2014/56/EU Regulation from 16 April 2014 on the review of the Directive 2006/43/EC of the legislation on the review of annual accounts and balance of accounts. European Parliament and Council Regulation (EU) No. 537/2014 of 16 April 2014 for specific requirements related to a legal review of PES and a breakdown in Commission Decision 2005/909/EC. On September 23, 2018, a six month delay in the EEA Convention was provided to lift a controlled warning. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 7. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. The Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council 2014/56/EU requires further agreements on legislationual reviews in order to make the rules more beneficial and predictable. Further agreements on official monitoring of lawual reviews are then required. The independent control authority in the European Economic Area will be established and the hidden authority necessary to prevent violations of existing rules associated with review services. The implementation of the directive leads to significant changes in monitoring of accountants, leading to increased costs for monitoring. However, the monitoring fees of accountants depend on the costs. The Council and Council No. 537/2014 requires specific requirements in relation to a legal review of public interest units. There is a greater requirement for accountants and accountants to review such units. At the same time, there is an even greater demand for public transparency and an increased risk-based monitoring for such types of accountants and accountants. Changes will be made in existing monitoring of accountants and accountants reviewing units related to the public interest. This will establish the European Commission's Commission for reviewers (CEAOB) which will handle projects previously included in the European Commission's review group but the EFTA countries have not been members of the latter group. The decision made by the European Commission provides a lead-in text of how each member of the EFTA Member States should have the right to participate fully in the European Commission reviews with the same conditions as the EU member organisations, without the voting right or the right to lead. The implementation of the Regulation calls for legal modifications, and has provided a bill with a new global law on accountants instead of the law of No. 79/2008. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted. The Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir's daughter was absent from the case. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Underage of literature, in addition to me, Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, Chairman of the Committee, Ásgerður K. Gylfadóttir, Smári Mccarthy, Logi Einarsson, Óskarsdóttir María Hejarsson, Trausti Guðmundsson, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörnótsdótir, and Þorgerður Katrín Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u146	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a board of committees with a bill-change proposal to legalize various laws due to the budget for the coming years on deck. 634, more part of the Economic and Business Committee. In 1st. 57st. b Tax tax law, No. 90/2003, there is a time limit set on authority to reduce taxable interest costs and losses due to loan trades with linked partners. This is a law of this kind that fails on January 1. According to Article 3. track No. 59/2017. The waiver's failure can keep companies from a joint loan that could raise their financial expenses. More than two o'clock in committee partying. for the available bill, it was found that the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs was working on a bill, including the above points would be taken. The bill has already been submitted, that is 433th case, but in view of the lack of progress in the year - to - year performance, more of the material adds new words to the 3 mgs. 57st. a law on income taxes, instead of the one that falls away at the end of the year to come. Earlier this year, the Committee provided a bill to correct the change in the product charge of vehicles, fuels, and No. 29/1993, and more laws, 162 cases, with several changes. Among the changes proposed by the committee, there was an analysis of the limits of the product charge and stress that would be 10 days after the date of the stress decision. It has been suggested that the pay period of pay be better off on Day 15 of the next month after the pressure of the wage. To make it more consistent with due date and simple stress. Then it would be carried out in accordance with government policy on reducing the number of public pay days. The majority agree with the indication and suggest an appropriate change in Article 3. track No. 117/2008. For technical reasons, the majority also contributes to the adjustment of temporary regulations in terms of life insurance rights and the operation of pension funds, No. 129/1997, which was identified in the Committee's list of objects at 2nd. The proposals are provided with this committee mask. In addition to such articles, under the heading "Apprehensible Writings. " The men of Bruthi, the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, Bristur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, and Abiltes the Ásgerður of K. Gylfadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u147	Mr. President. This topic discusses the bill for the legal adjustment of various laws because of the budget for 2019 C.E. I just want to come on the 12th floor for a minute. The contribution is being made to the F.I.A. This is a bit interesting and appears to be in accordance with the government policy of reducing the cost and taxes of financial companies at the same time that it cannot be excluded from the poor and older citizens. This is the priorities of the government in that regard. I'd like to find out what the report says about 12. gross, but the decline means that we're going to run over our own budget. The FEC has been run for the expenses paid by financial companies and insurance companies but is now due to reduce the cost to the Agency's own budget. I think it's wrong priorities, and I don't quite understand what the government's going to do with it. There is a danger that this will reduce future monitoring, an important monitoring of financial institutions. I consider them to be very unreasonable. In the future, the state funds will likely have to start depositing funds to this institution and thus pay the banks and insurance companies for this. So it's a law that I think is very unwise, and I don't fully understand what the government's going through. I'd like to come in on more articles, like the 21st paragraph. where there is a price update on charges. It is only 0.32% while the general price update is 2.5%. I don't quite understand why the price update should be 2.5% as it should be in terms of the charges. Then there is a decrease in the employment relocation fund, which is a very important fund, to form in view of the fact that people are being helped back into the workforce, e.g. individuals with disability, etc. There's a down payment on a professional. It would be helpful to know whether the arrangements such as this do not add to the problem and the financial cost of society at the same time. It has been said many times in this discourse that there is a great concern about the growth of micropigs, and there is an increasing increase in cost of disability. If nothing has to be done, then the cost of disability will be 90 billion per year in 2030, as it were, after just a few years. While there are resources, employment legislation is a strategy to try to reduce these issues, the government decides to reduce contributions to this important category. I think it's perfectly clear that this will lead to a higher problem, if anything happens. This is one of the priorities I don't fully understand by the government. According to the law, all employers and those with more independent employment are required to pay 0.13% of the strain to the industry, but this is an extension of the law that they pay 0.10%, not 0.13%. If the government's will is to reduce this important price, it should be done in the financial bill. There's the priorities and priorities of the government, which I consider very sad, and I don't fully understand what the government is doing in this regard. Then I'd like to mention 25. which also contribute to the rehabilitation fund I went to earlier. There are other regulations I would like to mention in this connection, to form the carbon. The carbon bill is being raised. We in the Middle East have noted that the carbon tax is unsatisfactory and is not leveled on the population in a fair way. Therefore, a review of that tax must be made in view of its impact on the population. There is a certain lack of policy on the part of the government when it comes to this tax system, which is very important to review and review. The cost for older citizens is increased in local homes. So there are various costs that do not concern those with little materially, which, of course, is tragic. I'd like to end this by saying that priorities are very strange here, like reducing the cost of a financial company. This morning's hearing, at the council's office, was argued that this was absolutely necessary to cover the country's interest levels. I cannot see that reducing the contribution of financial companies to the SEC will change the country's interest levels. I think it's crystal clear that it's not. However, it is the policy of the government to reduce the cost of a financial company at the same time as we see the desperate do not receive what was promised in a new year, and a large number of older citizens live at poverty levels, as shown in a debate at the council by no means. paritaprevir Ellert B. Schramur and president of the senior citizen's community.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u148	A respectable president. I recommend a bill for the security of important infrastructure networks and information systems that would be the first pooled law column in this field in Iceland. The bill is in line with the nature of the European Union's network security directive, often referred to as the Nations Directive, but it should be stated that it has not been adopted in the EEA Convention. Decisions are being prepared on the scene of EFTA and EES, and preparations are being implemented both in Norway and Liechtenstein. The implementation of the bill has had extensive consultations with stakeholders and is also being seen with the implementation of the IS directive in Denmark, Finland, and Sweden. The network and information systems play a key role in modern communities, but network attacks are seen everywhere as a growing threat. The bill thus has a very important interest in promoting the development of essential social infrastructure to the Internet. In short, the main objective of the bill is to coordinate minimum requirements for risk management and management of important infrastructures as defined in the bill, to legalize the reporting of serious episodes in the network and information systems for the post-communication and communications network, to improve network security activities significantly, and to enable management to improve the response to the network servers. Network and information security is a case category that affects many institutions. It is suggested that the order and function of the Internet security Council be determined in the proposed legislation. There are many new words, and a new law will be discussed if the bill is accepted. Practicality is suggested in the bill to ensure that the term or collection of the terms will be defined and applied to the operators of the required services and digital services providers in common. This suggests that monitoring of digital providers will be less than with the operators of the required services. This will occur particularly afterwards and take into account the nature of the partner's function. Seven. The bill is obliging important infrastructures to document with appropriate policy and risk management processes for their systems, end of a structured system to contribute to the increased security and development of network and information systems. Risk assessment and testing should be performed on a regular basis and the safety measures re-evaluated as appropriate and in accordance with international criteria for best performance. The bill assumes that different surveillance authorities will be assigned to monitor the implementation of the proposed legislation in their respective fields, i.e. Energy sources for energy and heat, Transportation and Transportation, Banking and financial market infrastructure, health - care surgeon office, the Environment Agency for the Water Forces and the Post and Communications Agency for digital infrastructure and digital services providers. The ongoing efforts of the government to protect and resist Internet and information protection are essential to achieving the aim of the proposed legislation. 12th degree. The bill is therefore defined as their minimum monitoring authority on important infrastructures, such as access to data and information, reporting, reporting clearances, tests and improvements requirements. Experiencing daily pressures is expected if the government recommendations are not followed or requested to deliver data. It is then suggested that the post- and communications agency be assigned to a proposed co-ordination role in the management board as a co-ordination authority. The post and communications agency's staff has a lot of knowledge and experience in foreign affairs, operates on a network security team and is, as stated previously, intended to play a surveillance role under the bill. Since the Internet does not follow traditional borders, cohesion authority has to be closely associated with other countries and sister organisations. The second primary objective of the bill is to provide a notification of serious events in the network and information network of important infrastructures to the Post and Communications Network immediately. It is suggested, in addition, that punishment should be determined by deliberate or gross failure to provide a false report to the Internet security force. It is suggested that an network should ensure that reporting from important infrastructures and information on events is immediately available to local authorities. For some time, a military and communications agency has operated on a network security team called a CSIRT team for Iceland. It is important to ensure that the post and communications agency is required to operate the network security force. It should be noted that the main cost of the bill, by law, is due to the timely development of the countryside. IV. section of the bill discusses services and cooperation with the network security team. It should address reports of events from important infrastructure and others by providing appropriate information or advice on how to react and how to support effective management of an event. If there is a suspicion of criminal conduct, it is the owner of the network and information systems that are threatening to report an incident to the police. The bill suggests that not only the duties of the network security team but also that important infrastructures can consult the country for support and specific guidance on the security of their network and information systems. It is suggested that public agencies be made available to negotiate this kind of service against the cost of the mail and communications agency. However, it is suggested that the European Commission be used for the services of the Post and Communications Agency in the field of Internet security without any particular fee. The bill further suggests that the post and communications network will be allowed to offer important internal and public monitoring agencies on more precise and documented grounds to identify evidence of assaults, corruptions and other dangerous situations. It is important to ensure access of the network security system to the necessary information so that it has the best professional basis for reacting to events and risks. The wording of the country for the processing of personal information is discussed in Article 21. The bill, and so does 5 mg. 18th par. The bill is suggested to provide access to network security teams to organise equipment practice involved with representatives of important infrastructure and public institutions and after incidents in cooperation with the State Marshal and Control. The NNIS directive highlights national and information security policies and is proposed in Article 4. that the Minister's policy will be implemented for that purpose. In force, there is an Internet and information security policy from 2015 with a vision for the year 2026. The Net Security Council was set up at the same time to ensure follow-up of this policy. It is suggested that its purpose must be primarily to follow government policies in this area. Set up an assessment of the status of Internet security in Iceland at any given time and become the site of information sharing and coordination. The meetings of the Council are expected to be shut by closed doors with reference that there may be sensitive information and national security opinions. By regulations of the 19th and 20th. reviews confidentiality, and finally it is assumed that there should be a violation of security requirements and announcement requirements, as well as regulations for specific confidentiality to be required. It is suggested that the law be accepted on January 1, 2020. However, it is appropriate to assume that 4. The government's policy on the Internet security board is already acquired. Finally, there is a possibility that there will be a change in the law of the Post and Communication Network and a set of communications that would be necessary if the bill were to be legal. If the bill is legal, they will promote greater security in Iceland by continuing building their own abilities and cooperation with other countries. A respectable president. I have explained the main subject of the bill and suggest that it be followed by this discussion referred to why. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u149	A respectable president. This is a bill for the legislation on communication advisers of sports and youth service. The bill is written at the Ministry of Education and Culture following the declarations and reports of athletes under the mill # I like. This is one of the proposals made by a group of workers appointed after # I too, but the group also provided additional suggestions for various sports and youth activities, such as sports and sports, childhood society, rural society, and the government. It is important that these parties agree to take action in this area, but our policy is clear; the safety of users is to be in first place. As is well known, many women reported on the behavior that they have suffered because of their generation in social centers below the mill sign about a year ago. Since then, events have been repeated proving that the equality struggle is not far enough and that a considerable work is still being done in this regard. Like other women, the reports of athletes were many and serious. It described many forms of violence, harassment, discrimination, humiliation, and other forms of discrimination that women have experienced in sports. The reports were many of all serious cases in which they violated legal requirements and many of these occurred when women were under 18 years of age. Despite the fact that the stories of athletes led to the bill, a contract was made that allowed it to have a wider set of values so that it would be a means of organization and members who represent sports and youth. Such a job is very important in Iceland. In this regard, according to ISI figures since 2017, nearly 100,000 people of all ages were involved in sports in the sports movement, a large part of that group of children and young people. The report on the bill points to a number of studies and articles that show that situations in sports often pose a special risk of practice users being subjected to violence or the use of force in the practice, where a person is often a powerful person, such as a coach. Unfortunately, the results of these studies are consistent with the experiences of athletes in Iceland. It should be possible that a sports job in Iceland is extremely upbuilding, and in the vast majority of cases it works out very well. However, this recommended bill is suggested to form a temporary contact worker for sports and youth workers with the objective that the environment of such activities will be safe and that children, young people and adults, regardless of gender and status, can pursue sports or youth activities and seek help from events or errors that arise there, without fear of the consequences. A respectable president. Now, I come to the individual branches of the bill. In 1st. is its value range defined. The provision stipulates the work of communication counselors to include the organized activities of the ISI, U.S.S.A., young people working on the basis of juvenile culture and organisations making agreements with the Ministry of Education and Youth for the exercise of comparable activities. With 2 st. The objective of the bill, which is that sports and youth activities be carried out in a safe environment and that children, adolescents and adults, regardless of sex or status, can pursue sports or youth activities and seek help or justice due to incidents and mistakes that arise without fear of the consequences. In the 3rd. The bill is an explanation. With a section four. The bill recommends that the job of a communication counselor be set up temporarily and meets the requirements that a communication counselor must meet regarding education and experience in order to qualify for the job. A respectable president. I want to finally thank all the women who came out and told their story. Also, I would like to thank the group for their excellent and excellent work. This bill is a national sports and youth reform bill, and I'm convinced that it will lead to increased safety for practicers of that kind. I hereby refer the bill to the General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u150	V.E.G. President and Chief. Minister. Here's a bill for the legislation on communication advisers of sports and youth service, and took over the prehistoric course of that matter. A preparatory group was set up in Iceland's Young Association, Iceland's Sports Association, the Union of Iceland, and other experts. This job is temporary, as the Minister said. She also studied the vital role of this communication counselor, and it seems to me that this is of great importance in the discussion that has taken place regarding all the events that have taken place in the sports movement. In connection with this bill, I would like to mention, and I think it would be proper to mention that the sport has been pressured to obtain proof of good conduct for a long time. I know, for example. that in Denmark it is in the case of similar members that it is very easy to get information about the proof of good conduct and the personal protection laws in this country are similar to the law in Denmark. So you ask yourself, " Why is it so complicated to receive such information here? ' Then I'd like to encourage you to do some careful work on where this new employee will be working. It is likely that it would be appropriate to locate within the youth sector. I'd also like to mention that the bill doesn't accept a principle in my opinion, i.e. that the management of the sports institutions and departments in the country also need to set out guidelines on how to communicate and how to conduct themselves and to monitor the work. I'm also talking about improving the nation's upbringing. I mention it because if it were in a better place, the need for such a communication counselor might be less. That's what we need to think more of in my opinion. By the way, I hope this employee is going to be very useful and that the bill is good for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u151	A respectable president. ▪ If Icelandic is lost, knowledge is lost and we stop being a nation, Vigdís Finnbogadóttir, former president. In the time of rapid internationalization and technological revolutions, it is important to underscore the status of the German tongue. The growing influence of computer and communication technology on everyday life requires action on the part of the government to ensure that languages such as Icelandic are eligible for modern communication. It must be turned in order to develop and thrive in the future. Hence, the responsibility for the ongoing work rests with governments and commercial life at any time as well as with anyone building this country. Speaking our own language is a privilege for a small nation. The importance of language and education is highlighted in the Icelandic era of independence, and it is of interest to note the importance of those taking the lead at that time. It is no less so in view of the fact that we have decided to put Icelandic in the first place, in this great year of national history, and turn the defence into a parish in her name. The Icelandic government has introduced a comprehensive program aimed at strengthening the European Union. The measures taken involve different nationalities, but their objective is the same well, to ensure that Iceland will continue to be used in all areas of society. The key is a firm desire to ensure the progress of the language. Already there is a bill in the treatment of the council that is new to support the publication of books in English. Its approval will include a support system consisting of 25% reimbursement for direct costs of publishing Icelandic books. Estimated contributions are about 400 million. K. of 2019 C.E. In addition, a special children's and teens fund will be established, but the younger generation has strongly suggested that such books need to be increased. The importance of publishing is undisputed to the preservation of Icelandic society. The fact is that the locks of our children have deteriorated in international comparison. In addition, the national colporteur has been highly intertwined, i.e. about 36% in the last ten years. The main reason for this is the change in social development and the rapid development of technology, since increasing the availability of online literature and graphics has resulted in reduced reading of Icelandic books. This development poses a threat to the language, so the book nation itself must fail. During the next few weeks, plans to support the private media will be completed. The media play an important role in sharing information and as a platform for discussions and exchanges. They reflect our history and support and maintain the English language. According to one estimate, the environment of the unique media in this country is difficult, including the U.S. for the competition of national and international advertising markets and rapid technological development. So far, the media in Iceland has been the only ones in the North countries who have no official support. We want to create fertile soils for the wide variety of international flea media, the media that share good news in the United States, thus promoting democratic discussions. A respectable president. To make sure that Iceland is eligible in a digital world, electronic communication, and communications-based information processing are now being carried out by the Management Plan for Speech, for the preparation of the 2018◯2022. This includes developing and building technical infrastructures necessary to bridge spaces between speech and equipment, such as speech branch, speech, translation machine, and grammar/registry. The plan is fully funded by the current financial programme, which has a total estimate of 2.2 billion dollars in the total cost of the government. during the period. Tonight, I have come to recommend a synonym of the need to promote the English language as an official case in Iceland. That surmounting proposal frames our entire set of policies in Icelandic languages. The main objective of the proposal is three, i.e. that in all areas of society, there will be an increase in all schools, along with the education and development of teachers, and the future of the Icelandic language in a digital world. To achieve that goal, 22 measures to be taken over the next three years are proposed. The proposed actions to affect most of society's fields are a punctuation of a conscious awakening to the importance of Icelandic language. In fact, that awareness has already begun, for on the day of November 16, I used the opportunity to introduce it to Iceland's title. The other measures are education and education, culture, technology development, access, innovation, policy, management, job life, etc. A respectable president. Icelandic is a living communication tool and we're on our own. A wise awakening and a holistic approach to this type of approach must take place in many parts of the community and will be sought in the near future for widespread cooperation on it, including the results. to institutions, jobs, members of society. We can all take an active part in developing and molding Icelandic languages and using them creatively. The future of this Icelandic country is ours and ours. It is full of exciting challenges and opportunities. Work together to make sure that everything can be done in English.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u152	A respectable president. The Parliament's resolution is made with the review of General Assembly warrants to confirm for Iceland the framework between Greenland, Denmark, Iceland and Norway for the protection of the hairy stock and its control, which was signed on June 21 of this year's country. This new agreement for phonies replaces an earlier contract from 2003. This includes the reduction of Iceland's share in total intensity from 81% to 80%, while Norway's share decreases from 8% to 5% from the previous contract. In contrast, the lot of Greenland rises from 11% to 15%. Contract agreements are expected to change the subject of an Annex to the annual meeting of the EU's annual meeting on the hairy stock if the parties involved have the right to agree. Contract negotiations between citizens of interest due to fish from the hairy stock and defined as coastal states, i.e. Greenland, Norway, and Iceland have been in progress since 2016. At a speech meeting in London, 18◯21. This year the result of a new three-sided agreement between Iceland, Greenland, Denmark, and Norway was reached on the switch between the permission of the maximum resources and the affairs of vacaturation. The prehistory of negotiations comes from a biography report on the fur stocks published in 2016. According to the report, significant changes in the course of life have been observed and are now estimated to be about 75◯95% after years of its life course in greenengal jurisdiction, but according to the report, it cannot be found in Jan Mayen's jurisdiction. Following the report, representatives of Greenland insisted that the total total of Greenland would be over half of the total resources in the season. At the same time, the Green American government requested an increase in legal history for its own ships. Iceland's representatives considered these requirements unrealistic, and they even proved otherwise. so that the report would not be in line with the time-consuming countries of the coastal world, as well as other significant moisture. Since a new biography report showed that it was not in Jan Mayen's jurisdiction, the conclusion was that Norway was not entitled to share in the fluffy industry. Iceland's position is that Norway continued as a contract agreement. The behavior and pattern of walking may change in the future and may return to the jurisdiction of Jan Mayen. The meeting pressure formally confirmed that the decision of the total resources per product should be based on long-term application policies. The International Marine Research Council has confirmed that this strategy complies with the criteria of responsible fishing, sustainable development and precautionary measures. This modern trend confirms the position of the coastal nations that has existed since 2015 to avoid self - destructive summer fishing. This cohesive means that almost no hairy fish is caught in the fishing history of other countries than Iceland. The arrangement does not allow for any other changes in the vaca distribution system. Iceland is thus an example. It shall continue to be seen that the lot of Greenland or Norway will not be completely hunted, to catch the abundance of unfathomable. However, Iceland has to pay compensation for such fishing if Green and Norwegian ships fail to catch their share because of a late decision to allow maximum power. However, the agreement suggests that a decision to make a total amount is made on February 5 or later during the year. Such a time goal was not for going to a previous contract. The requirements for two-sided access to the contract's fishing history and technical limitations are set out in the Annex II, III, and IV agreements. The number of Norwegian ships at the same time granted permission to fish Iceland's fishland weekend is limited, as was the previous 30 ships. The access of a Greenlandic vessel is virtually unchanged. The parties of the agreement want to cooperate closely for further studies on the hairy population. This will give you a clearer agreement on reporting and sharing information on the wealth and future of the stock sector than on the previous agreement. The arrangement of meeting together is temporary, but it can be stated on a single basis in advance. It took temporary value during signing, but it will have its final value when the administrative warnings for each country have been fulfilled. A respectable president. I suggest that after this discussion, this proposal be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-47.u153	A respectable president. In the United States, the Parliament's decision to establish a contract between Iceland and the Faeroe Islands for Fishing in Icelandic and British jurisdictions in 2018, which were temporarily passed away by cross - mail exchange between the government of the United States earlier this year. The contract requires permission of parties to fish seafood in each other's legal history in 2018. However, the content of the contract differs somewhat from that of the past few years. The difference is to a maximum adjusted on the Fading Faeroe Fishing Compared to 5% of the total batan population. The maximum 2018 is 25,000 trains, once 30,000 trains. The number of Icelandic ships that can be caught at coal fishing is increasing at the same time in the Offey's jurisdiction, and the number of ships from 12 goes up to 15 ships. There was no agreement between the nations on hairy fish of the Faeroe Islands in Icelandic jurisdiction over the duration of 2018/2019. The nations agreed to start working to change the arrangement of these negotiations with the aim of making a longer-term frame deal, but there would be some adjustments, such as salaries and access to each situation. The Treaty allows for a mutual warrant for each of the parties to fish the carbons and the Norwegian-islen fjords within the rest of the jurisdiction of 2018. Icelandic ships are authorized to fish on as many as 1,300 trains of mackerel in sophisticated jurisdiction this year. In November 2018, the treaty went into effect for temporary purposes. It will have final value when it has been announced that the administrative conditions of each country have been met. Before this deal was made on the basis of national contract from 1976 on the information of the Faeroes to fish Iceland's jurisdictions, it was decided that successful ships were allowed to catch 5,600 trains of bottom fish by Iceland in 2018. However, the overall forces of cod will not exceed 2,400 trains, the total segments of a cone will not exceed 650 trains, and no fishing will be allowed on the hatches or in the window. A respectable president. I suggest that after this discussion, the proposal be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
