ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u1	The president considers that a meeting meeting can last longer today, but the body of Congress says that there is a need that must be considered likely. It is then being done to distribute the last committee views and documents on the 2019 budget, but not all of them are available. So the president expects votes for abnormalities after lunch break.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u2	As the president mentioned yesterday, he did research on answers to questions. paritaprevir Dr. Thorstein's Sæmundsson to Minister of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities on deck. 163, of the sale of the highest holding of the apartment loan fund, made by the senator a subject for last night's meeting board. The President has the information that the Ministry's answer is in the drawing, but a secretary has felt it necessary to seek the identification of Peronist on whether it is permitted to reveal the information requested in the Senate.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u3	Borist has received a letter from a marine economist and agri-gri-gri-gri-gritary minister asking for a written answer. 276, on the risk assessment of GDP from Teitur Björn Einarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u4	Two o'clock now. The budget is set and the guidelines for the rest of the talks are set. The budget of Congress. However, the right to respond to the notice of the speaker will be made clear to a greater proportion of the budgetary committee so that representatives of all government groups who would like to respond. It's two times a minute each. Thereafter, the usual counter-reguage is valid.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u5	V.E.G. President. I recommend more of that committee party. The budget board for the 2019 C.E. The case was referred to September 14 issue. and the Committee has received a number of reviews on the subject and has, together with the representatives of the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, received a review to the Committee and a number of helpful tips. At that time, one telecommunication was held with the representatives of the Based Agency. I'd like to follow the procedure of the Committee, which turns to the budget and suggestions that come with it. The Commission has in accordance with official financial laws in order to improve the work programme. Prior to taking a stand on the individual requests, the committee requested the position of the minister and called for information on whether the request was agreed to the case's policy and whether the minister had made a contract or agreed to agree with the relevant party. The answers were not always satisfying, must be heard, and this changed procedure may take time. Counts the more part to be important and forethought to follow this modified procedure. The purpose of this is to improve the linking of funding requests to policy-making policies of the relevant topic so that certain partnerships would develop into budgets that once again affect the development of financial programmes in the spring as well as call for the awareness of the effectiveness of the changes in the annual budget of each minister's report. As to the overall impact of the changes we're discussing here, let's first say that the overall impact from the bill is very limited, as hardly any. Indeed, there are variations, both the income and the pay factor, to increase and decrease on each side. The transition to income is an increase of 364.2 million and the net change at the reciprocal half to an increase of 396.4 million. The net effect of this is 32.2 million to reduce overall survival. Thus, it is estimated that the waste will be 1% of GDP, as suggested in financial and financial policies. It is helpful to examine the basics of a budget without interest and income, but the original equation has been positive since 2012, allowing for negative growth. The review of the bill's budget has made negligible changes since November 2, nearly 400 million with both deviations. The largest reduction in the value tax by 4 billion is due to a decline in private consumption and a decrease in the loss of tourists in the region that affect it. To the opposite, 1.7 billion dollars. increase of income tax and 2.7 billion per person. revenue of sales licenses. Other anomalies are less likely to occur. It is suggested that budget increase by 3.8 billion. ... as a result of reassessment of the pay, gang and price managers of the bill. In turn, reassessments and measures take the highest. Governments to reduce various budget bindings resulting in 4.3 billion dollars. CYP3A4 inhibition by CYP3A4 and CYP3A4 These are measures and proposed changes in the remuneration side explained in a specific section at the end of the poll and are the net effect of these tools of less than 400 million. These changes are largely due to the changes in the economy based on Iceland's Institute of National Economics. The bill is based on a forecast published on June 1, of this year, but a new project of Haustab's prophecy was published on November 2, 2000. The relative changes in projections for its reassessment can be seen from June 1 to November 2 and before 2019 C.E. Economic growth is more potent this year than expected, by 0.9%. Prior to 2019 C.E., a slightly lower economic growth is expected than expected in previous forecasts, by a reduction of 0.2%, we will call it. However, the climate projections are somewhat higher in the new forecast, 3.6%, and are responsible for its impact on reassessments and revenues, but mostly, as I said, in salary, gang-winning and grading improvements. The main objective of the bill is set out in accordance with official financial laws. 14th degree. They explain that the bill is in line with the aim of a financial program adopted as a concierge of the 148th legislation Council, June 6 of that year. The bill's report explains its main objectives and looks at financial matters. The financial programme for 20191⁄223 shows the share-of-the-total share policy as a proportion of gross domestic product production and the growth of the income and the yield. The aim is that the total financial debt of the state's debt to the state's law on public finances will be up to 25% of gross domestic product by the end of 2019 and that the total budget will generally be 2.5% of GDP compared to 2.1% in 2018. Government funds have been turned in every year since 2014, and internal and temporary incomes have been used to pay off debt. In just six years, total financial debt has been managed to reduce from 86% of GDP to 31% by the end of the year. This will be expected to be paid every year for 7 billion dollars. Into the unfunded pension debt of B-in the Penitentiary of the State's Penitentiary. It reached a total of 619 billion dollars. By the end of 2017, the number has increased in recent years. These subsidies are expected to have a significant reduction in commitment and to improve the pay status of the B department. These and other long-term measures add to the sustainable financial sector, one of the main objectives of a government law on public finances. The rest of the government funds is at the floor of financial policy, 1% of gross domestic product, making less than 29 billion dollars. Clearly, economic and financial goals cannot be overcome. This is one of the things that has been seen in the criticism of financial policy and financial programmes, that we were totally at the floor. We can be sure that we have felt it now. Although changes between the Economics of the Habitat were as small as they can see, the government had to respond to every department, cover every aspect very carefully, and take reasonable and responsible measures that we see in changing proposals. I believe this is one of the positive things we've adopted here by government law. This adds to the discipline throughout the system. Economic outlooks are generally good, but the growth of growth during the past few years is beginning to decrease. This can be attributed to slower growth in tourism, as further considered in a topic area 14, i.e. travel service. The more part feels that there is a need for future gaps between budget and financial programmes so that the survival of a budget will be controlled by changes in economic outlooks without the threat of financial policy recovery. Meeting of the Commission with several sources of information, including A comment was made in the format of the data bill and an accessory to the National Reexamination Union. The committee agrees and agrees with these indications, believing that the presentation can be added and offered a few suggestions in a committee program that I'm going to trace. The format of the database will be reviewed with the aim of explaining and simplifying the presentation. To achieve this, adjustment may be needed. A bill package will be far more comprehensive than currently available and will thus be more able to trace the financial resources of individual Member States, partners and autodiversaries. It is not unusual for us to have questions about the position and arrangements of the institutions, and we need to work at a number of jobs to dig it up so that this is not sufficiently beneficial. There will be significant reductions in repetitions in the captions of individual topics and categories. It will be looked forward to explaining primarily the changes in total expenditures and releasing as possible explain according to economic exchange. The focus of the bill text should consist of detailed explanations of a so - called budget bridge published for each topic field. Up to now, explanations have been too tight, and more often, but do not add them to the picture or to the spot that shows the changes in frames between years. These are logical, and it is very important to explain, as these are very helpful information. These committees specifically investigated the development of costs and economic exchanges as well as the maintenance of financial resources. In recent years, pay and social security have been found to increase very much, with a greater proportion than other expenditures. Of course, this should not be surprising, for in recent years there has been an increase in pay and financial resources. However, it may be concluded that this trend continues to increase the proportion of pay and social security costs increase more than other expenditures allow for increased development in other areas of infrastructure. According to some sources, the maintenance of the state's budget is not acceptable and cautions against the fact that there is too little leftover so that nothing can be taken away so that the government's business cannot be controlled. On the other hand, many people feel that there is insufficient improvement in the various issues. The committee feels that there is not enough field-of-view analysis in this field, I'll tell the committee because it all agrees on this, and calls for a staging analysis in connection with a financial review. Iceland's pay sheet evaluates the maintenance of financial interests, last in the fourth issue of the budget of 2018, and evaluates taking into account irregular revenues and reciprocations to the extent of the recovery reflects changes in general economic activities. According to Iceland's Secret Bank, the maintenance phase increased in 2018, and the majority consider it to be a reasonable government policy, coming from the top of the economy this year. However, according to the survey of the bank for the past three years, the maintenance of the previously existing state of affairs was relaxed. The success of the bank's projections on the existing bill can be expected to rescind next year. Hence, it may well be concluded that national financial policies thus do not provide sufficient support to the money policy for the desirable national equilibrium. On the other hand, it can be pointed out that they are concerned about what money goes on, how it goes on, how it grows, or what it is now. to happen, in remuneration and remuneration. The new and reevaluated predictions of Iceland's Habitats show that economic growth is decreasing, so the majority of them seem normal to relax the maintenance and increase the reasonable investments of welfare, transportation and education, as reflected in the bill we are discussing. In view of the lack of debt in recent years, the rate of growth is expected to rise by about 10 billion dollars. from year to year, as shown by an increase in income calculus. It can be read from one point to another in the overall equation. It is important to look to a reasonable policy in paying off debt, which allows more room for the well - being, education, transportation, climate, a stronger foreign service - and when economic growth declines, it is wonderful to be in a position to invest in the future, thus increasing our chances of increasing here and improving the quality of living for future generations. That may be the main text, both on the bill and on the changes we're watching here. Thus, we add actual and absolute expenses to an absolute value of 5.4% and 9.3%, respectively. Expenditures increase with 14.6% in name from year to year. It's in the park. I'm going to go down to some of the major topic areas that the majority put out in a committee party. Of course, I don't expect to go over it all. I know that my colleagues in the greater part will support me in it and enter the major topic areas. Transport and communications expenditures are greatly increasing in accordance with the Constitution and the national financial programme. This will be a three - year - old transport campaign and will be reflected in this financial bill, where the annual spending will be 13.9%, including pay and prices changes. A national budget adopted by the General Assembly at the spring Summit shows that there should be a substantial increase in the amount of money needed to meet the needs of collections and to follow the campaign light - linked to the end, to support the Internet security and to maintain the strength of Iceland's communications status approved by the International Communications Association. We are in the first place among the equals in this field. The financial support of the transport and communications budget is a clear example of the support of public financial legislation for policy integration and planning so that budgets reflect overall, integrated policies and planning in accordance with agreed programmes by the General Assembly and the Government. Thus, the bill confirmed that the process of transportation is realistic and responsible. And she's a treasurer. There are very significant changes in agricultural budgets, as vast sections of the budget are tied to government and farmers' treaties. During this assembly, much has been discussed about fishing and fishing. A seaside road is the national infrastructure, and it has long been one of the most destructive employment roads in the country, and it has long been a success until the tourism service was resolved on that scale. The majority of the enterprise's environment in the fishing industry is a fair, stable, and catch-up bill for the council now under discussion. A professional health committee. The majority of the items direct them to the highest recommendations. Governments to have a detailed work on the impact of fishing fees on the settlements of the country, which is one of the basic roads of the country, which is a well - founded foundation. The majority of the opinions presented by financial programme 2019-2023 in spring are about the importance of improving the economic reporting and the research on tourism as planned. Since tourism has begun to weigh as much in our economic and commercial lives, it is vital that we be very careful about our policy, research this way, and increase our knowledge of it. Then the committee repeatedly calls up a forward - to - line video analysis of the effect of tourism on the economy. In accordance with the government's policy declaration, the priority is for environmental matters. In this financial bill, expenses increase to an absolute value of over 1.5 billion in less than 9% and increase in only a small number of grammatical areas. The currency curve is 1,320 million. K. Thereby, contributions to climate and to strengthen infrastructure at nature protection sites and due to increased land protection. I'm gonna go over education and culture. The government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter places great emphasis on a powerful education system, an education, science, and research required innovation, progress, and future economic growth. The foundation of the Icelandic school system continues to be creative and critical, as well as to promote locks and participation in democracies, with its task of strengthening these foundations in many ways. Modern culture, creative articles, and sports are of great importance to each society. In particular, it is urgent to ensure that everyone is able to grow into culture, sports, and youth activities and promote creative and professional branches. I think that in the field of prowess, the best opportunities are in this area. More than 11% of the total budgets of the state's funds are coming up to issues that are under the Minister of Education and Culture. There are five of them involved in culture, art, sports and youth, multimedia, high school, university, and, finally, other levels of education. The total cost is estimated to be 14.5 billion. and slightly increase the absolute value between years. In line with the promise that people will enjoy their culture and that it will be transmitted to the people of the land, especially to children and adolescents, financial resources are increasing by 75 million. K. to promote the three main collections. The Icelandic language is an important part of culture, and in 2019 the highest value is at the time of the bill. A minister gives a bill to legalize the publication of books in Icelandic that aims to promote read and protect the English language. There's more money to film fund and language management programmes where the total production of 2019 to the project will be 460 million. K. Total contributions to the topic area thus increase by less than 4% and reach more than 14.5 billion dollars. For the most part, sports is being carried out in the field of rural society and of free partners and partners and is driven to a large extent by volunteer work. The Ministry is now working on it, and I think it's done in the open language, new sports policy, and it puts much emphasis on paying for the participation of children from foreign origins in sports and youth activities. We need to do better in that regard, a respectable president. They're working to identify the situation in this group. Then, in accordance with the recommendations of a staff group # I like revolution and Minister, the bill will be presented to the legislation on the relations of the sports and youth service and its funding. The overall contribution to the seminary is less than 4 billion bucks. and the largest increase in the seminary between the years is the Aphrek Fund of ISI. Under the media media media sector, we hear a media committee and the State Radio, and there's the state radio industry at its most important level. High school funds stay almost constant between budgeting years, with a total budget of over 31 billion. but because of a decrease in the number of students, each student's funds increase and thus strengthens the financial status of high school, as suggested by the reduction of high school. The national budget shows that the number of seniors is estimated to be 17,896 this year and reduces them to 16,714 next year. Based on changes in the topic party's management budget, there is an increase in the rate of the state of the student's budget of 180,000. between. However, it is important to monitor for other effects of the changes in middle school decrease, such as the proportion of track logs, deletions, and students remaining in school after this planned three - year period, and to see how this has a social effect on students in the after-schools. It is important to consider from the beginning to these factors. The total cost to the university will be 46.7 billion. and increasing absolute value by 705 billion. K. between. The government's treaties provide an average of the OECD countries that are reaching the university budget by 2020 and the Northern countries in 2025. A financial committee has repeatedly called for explanations of this and what these standards tell us. If we are going to follow these averages and to base the standards on some comparison, the standard must be comparable to the school we are competing with. In the Ministry, a team of workers with Iceland's Habitats has to define the best way to compare evolution to college with what happens abroad. It is important to have these comparative standards, to determine where we are on that scale, to ensure that the Icelandic schools do not regresses in international development and that they meet international quality requirements. Just as it is necessary to define the benefits of following these measures. Hence, the more part stresses the evaluation of the quality of university education as well as changes in the calculus model that has often been discussed, with the aim of increasing the quality of the study rather than the number of students. This is true of high school. I'm only going to enter another school level, mostly the People's Schools. The majority of the money is making a budget for the University of Flatune and LugA of Seytur. Both schools are important in rebuilding their communities. LungA has been serving in Seynskúðar for four years, but it was the first time in the fall at Flatty. The arrival of the school has already created a great deal of activity and a whip to the rural and urban communities, but the majority stress that contributions are the basis for an experiment in this school work. There is a bill on this level of education, and it is important that the General talks about it and clear it up so that this school environment can get a legal ground. The majority of the shares are entrusted with the Minister of Education and Culture to make formal agreements with the schools and ensure their funding. Health contributions are increasing by 7% in 2019, about 15 billion, and this is in relation to the plans of the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. The main focus is on health care, patient payment, new hospital projects, more intensive walking services, support of health care in the country, nursing procedures, and improved mental health care. We are putting considerable increase in money into this system to strengthen our hospitals, our health care and the health care systems throughout the country, and the nursing homes being built up. That's what was set up and displayed in this bill, and there's no change between discussions here. So I'm going to take a little part of the welfare business, the Department of Social Services. The Commission has repeatedly discussed the issues of disability, both in financial and financial products, and in the pursuit of information, including The Department of Health, the State Department of Insurance and ACTIVE, the Rehabilitation Fund. Microenergy pensioners increased by 2,615 over a six - year period of 17%. Even if this trend is expected to slow down and on the annual increase by 1.9%, on average, through 2030, it will lead to undiminished contributions to disability save up from 41 billion dollars. This year, for about 90 billion bucks. In the year 2030. This is the information that hangs with what I entered at the beginning of the talk, that if this continues to be the general scope for financial infrastructure. The overall trend here is not unique, but we need to examine the interaction of reforms, rehabilitation, and sectoral disability. Of course, experience and success in this area of the North countries may be considered. The causes of increased disability are primarily mental and musculoskeletal disorders, as well as demographic changes. Expenditures have increased substantially, especially in recent years, but the majority of them consider it necessary to increase the flexibility of the system to meet different needs of individuals with impaired ability. There have been some suggestions on how to improve the situation. that the introduction of systems where performance is replaced by inability, emphasised on job-related rehabilitation, early intervention, cross-cutting and progressive integration. Such a approach is an attempt to evaluate the individual's ability to perform paid jobs rather than to look solely at the medical impairment done in a microenergy evaluation. Similarly, it is dangerous to attach the right of a pension to another support that is related to a completely different aspect or person's circumstances. In this context, the more part shows that there have not been a fundamental change in the micro-energy improvement system for years and that present disability assessments are based on standard since 1999, which is a complete child of its time and long since it is time to reevaluate the system from scratch. A greater part of the budget is important that as changes are seen in the assessment system, local security guards will be responsible for the role of the social security system as a staging system and thus a safety network of those who cannot support themselves in a labour market because of their lack of ability to work. Health Department workgroups are preparing proposals for improved disability assessment systems and a new forwarding system. However, a new global system is not expected to go into effect until, first of all, January 1, 2020, where the target is to achieve the most extensive political reconciliation for world changes. This is very important, and we stress that suggestions come from this group as soon as possible. Today, 2.9 billion dollars are expected. further improvement in system changes to improve the terms due to a delay in the work group's work programme, which deals with proposals for system changes, as well as 700 billion. K. upstuffs to personal help. The majority stress that the budget will be set up only as part of a comprehensive plan. This is financed, this money should go to this job, but we need to be careful and do it well. In view of the discussion that has been involved, I'd like to say that none of them are being taken away. Four billion people have been attached to this project in the budget program, and these 4 billion will go on this project, no matter what time it takes. However, we are putting up budgets, and we must be responsible in what we put in and in accordance with the progress of projects, no matter what names they are called, but the budget year falls within the calendar year so that if the project is tossed, we should not be opening nonnew sources. That's what it's mostly about. It's technical, it's 4 billion on this project, and we're putting too much emphasis on getting it done. I have strong faith in the group that is doing this work. It's a cross-cutting group, and every category in the General Assembly is in there. The representatives of the candidates, the Quantum and the Developmental Fund, who have come to this work are very powerful, so I have full faith that good things will come out of this work. We have to change this system because it's got bad traps, and I think everybody's down. Senators agree on this. Family contributions reflect the priorities of family matters in a financial bill. An increase in absolute value of 4.6 billion. which are 14% and slightly the third largest increase in the topic range between years. Of course, it's not a lot of money, but it's mostly about 1.6 billion dollars. children's improvement, especially in support of income - rich families. This is both an increase in sum and the limits of child improvement. There is an increasing budget of 2.2 billion. and the most significant increases in parent's maximum rents to 600,000 wills in maternity. per month. There is also an estimate for the increase in the pension fund to 11.5%. That's 200 billion. K. to early intervention in children's affairs and actions in behalf of a child's chemical family. True, we need to stay on guard, and we need to be careful when it comes to economics and the latest economic forecasts. It's slowed down in the economy, but we've got economic growth. It is a pleasure to be able to contribute to growth and infrastructure of all topics, up to that of all topics, and to keep the promise of investing in the welfare, education, transport, and activities related to climate change and sharing in the work as handsome as it is. This is a prescription for future economic growth and structure for future generations. If we keep our eyes on matters wisely, we should be able to consider further building in these areas. This is where the priority should lie, and it will appear in the financial bill we address here, and the changes between discussions will not affect these goals. A respectable president. Just before I finish my speech, I want to make some major changes. The legislature committee, but I refer to another way in explaining changes that appear at the end of the greater portion. If we take all the changes we are about to make, it's very important that every topic field takes pay, gang changes, and climate change, and then there are general measures that will come to which I started a talk. Of course, it reflects the fact that inflation has merely been involved. But in return, as I drew up in my speech, the fact that the discipline involved in government financial law is reflected in the general measures that each minister must take in order to meet these up with counter measures to meet the goals of living in policy and plan. I had reviewed changes in the public schools, but most of the contributions made to the public schools, the LungA to the Seyder and the University of Flattuus, as well as the emphasis on the captain's completing the prime points to support a general legal ground for this school and then it is very important to the highest degree. Ministers will proceed with a contract. A greater proportion of the budget also contributes to a 200 billion adjustment proposal. K. contribution to the renewal of imaging devices for health centres in the country. The renewal of such equipment is of utmost importance to support that work, and the equipment has become obsolete in many places. We then emphasize in the greater part that the budget should be divided in cooperation with the health - care minister and health - care directors in the country. This is not different from the last budget in 2018, where a greater portion appeared with additional financial resources to support the health bases of the country and to cooperate effectively with the Ministers and their agencies on the exchange of contributions. This is where the more part proposes 150 million. K. Temporary contribution to operation Y.A. The majority stress that the Ministry of Health covers Iceland's health insurance to negotiate walking-of-the-house services on the U.S.A., as well as supporting other services in accordance with policy. We stress this contribution for this fine service, which we know will be useful in strengthening the walking services here and in the north and facing the challenges we face in this field because of a waiting list. Then I think I brought out the biggest part of the committee's opinion, a respectable president. I know my colleagues are in the middle of nowhere. The legislators will present key points in other topic areas. In terms of adjustment, I refer to the summary at the end of the greater section and to the changes proposed by other special Parliamentary documents and the highest. Before I opened my talk, the president reviewed. Thanks for everything. The budget is a good job, and especially a solid basis for keeping a schedule. I hope the discussion here will be upbuilding and beneficial. The majority suggest that the bill will be agreed with the changes explained, provided in special Parliament documents, and proposed. Under this opinion, write along with the one standing here, whatever. Councilmen Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Njáll Satir Friðbertsson, and Páll Magnússon. As usual, I request the bill to be joined by a committee before the 3rd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u6	Mr. President. The chairman of the legal committee calls this responsible measures, stating that none of them are being taken away. However, there is no doubt that contributions to disability are being cut down by over 1 billion since the previously announced bill, which is only two months old. All of a sudden, there are 4 billion who were to enter 2019 into 2.9 billion. This is very, very clear, and there's an illusion of dust being picked up. If you hide behind the hard part of changing the system - good and good, change the system. If we say that the system is transformed in March or April, we have a slow game for us, and we often do it, letting such indistinguishable measures take place again. In fact, this has been done when we have increased the salary of members of Congress, which has increased backward. So I can't figure out the politics of these three groups, counting that broad banks can be found in micropows - all of them. A responsible politician lives by his word, and I don't remember such tactics, that men cut down to dissociate debates in the conference hall. [[The president calls.]] It's impossible to hear, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u7	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's comment. I said in my speech, well. A senator, that it was attached to a national financial programme. These 4 billion will go on this mission, and that's what it says. It's a responsibility. What may be a key here is that this is not just temporary but will stand into the future. I hope we all succeed, and the staff, and I have a lot of faith in it, to suggest that the changes in the system that are long gone. It's our common will. On the other hand, I would like to say that I refer it to the Fathers when we're talking about responsibility. It's irresponsible to talk like that. It is irresponsible to leave this group in doubt that we are going to make changes in the system, to let it question whether improvement is going up. They are increasing from 3.4% to 3..6%. We're not cutting one or more of the remunerations. These people's rewards are standing. So let's not cause a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u8	Mr. President. There's no misunderstanding here, 4 billion will have a single pen mark of 2.9 billion. It reminds me of the words of the financier sitting here, who didn't understand why the cripples didn't wear out how good they were on his watch. Let's just think about it, half of the poor have less than 220,000 bucks. for taxes to live on, 70% disability are under 300,000 tax returns. It's amazing to offer people the language they should just understand how good they are. They're not good. That's why we've made a clear call - that's why the Conspiracy proposes an adjustment of the proposal to add here. We have a new proposal to install 4 billion more into this system. The Generous Community and Developmental Help have not only said that these increases can be successfully implemented so that they will be taken into effect quickly. I'm going back to the rear route. This is a dark political priority, and it is the left green, forwarding, and the Independence Party shamed. In this country, there are 20,000 cripples, and I'm pretty sure any invalids will ever choose you again if you stand up for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u9	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for repeated remarks. I don't really know how many times to answer her. These 4 billion are attached, this group owns these 4 billion, and the group working on this project is doing so with 4 billion. That's it. It's about the same way as saying about a person who's made a lot of money and who's going to spend it all in a car, that's December 29, and the car doesn't accidentally come to the country until after the New Year's Eve and he spends all the money in the car. Well, then what would it be? I suppose a senator would say that this same person was extremely thrifty for New Year's, but extremely wasteful after a New Year's Day. Of course, there is no way to insist that this is irresponsible. It is irresponsible financial management to take steps during the next period that we may not be able to take into account.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u10	A respectable president. The Senator thanks. Last night the committee's opinion of 16 pages was published. Now it's 42 pages when I take it out of the chamber right next to it. At least a chapter on the 29th matter is about family matters, which was not considered on yesterday's committee. I wondered if there were any more changes left to what I could get from the shelf in the side room, considering yesterday's commission. I wondered if it really needs to be returned to the committee's opinion. If there are any - well, I feel that there is really enough change in the language field of 29 in addition, so that not all the explanations of the changes I made on the remuneration side that I could not go over when I as a member of this committee was making my minor opinion. Let's keep it up in the next round.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u11	V.E.G. President. Thank you. This comment was made by a member of the council on the subject and on the form of the committee. I can say with what. A senator says this needs to be arranged. However, they noted that there would be text changes. In fact, there is nothing in this chapter on the family matters that are not in the bill, but when we considered from the committee, we did not include this little summary, which we thought was the right thing to have in the committee's opinion. I agree with what. A senator, we are to be absolutely careful of the form and keep it in order for such a big and important matter. There's nothing in there, no numbers that have changed or anything, I can say it. This is primarily the text and the addition that came in. You're absolutely right. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u12	A respectable president. Only on the subject. I'd like to ask you what. The chairman of the legal committee whether we really apply the laws on public financial matters. Hv. The director was here eager to promote official financial laws to the point of discipline, firmness, and so on. Is this law really what we're going to do based on what the budget bill looks like and what the process is that we're trying to follow? Is that not just the same as it used to be? There was also the talk of a huge drive - to - transport campaign. Now 400 million is coming down. K. contributes to the road structure by 150 million. K. The interest in charge. How does this affect the road plan? Is it really a trust? Besides, I find it interesting to point it out as a boy. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson noted earlier: Why can this promise of 4 billion not simply be repeated? Everyone in this room has been restored. In fact, the matter is no more complex than that. But to fulfill the promises given about 4 billion years. ... ina change of the system. They may last, although the changes will not be evident until later in the year.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u13	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's questions. First of all, whether to legalize public financial matters. The answer is simple: Yes. But we are certainly following these new paths, which are very interesting, me and him. A senator, together with our companions, to the wind. It's a legal committee. It's interesting that we're going this way, following these paces in a financial budget plan, then following this up to the budget and reviewing reports from counsellors until we're going to a re-evaluated financial programme. Regarding transport, such as other departments, it brings out discipline, that there is an aspect of cooperation with Vega. Backtrace? We haven't seen any suggestions. Consider this decision when discussing changes in the disability system.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u14	President. Thank you. A chairman of the budget committee of his comprehensive history. I would like to raise the question that at the level of the Committee, it has been stated that changing the economic criteria with a new economic forecast has led to the fact that when the figure is left, which is recommended to be less than 1% in financial planning, it is somewhat below that. I'm not going to make any big cases out of anything else or anything, but I'm going to emphasize what is called the Prince of Evil. That's why I'd like to ask. A senator whether he agrees with me that in order to protect the credibility of the Commission and the rest of the budget procedures, it is necessary, before this discussion is completed, to make the necessary adjustments so that the criteria outlined in a financial programme are being met. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u15	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Oleaf the Ólafur of Ísleifsson, and a member of the committee, in trouble. The legal committee of this question, which is technical. It's one percent of the target and schedule of GDP -- yes, we have to be 1% plus. I really want to do what I want to do. A senator at that job between discussions, taking other traffics on the whole system, and seeing where the sources are not gonna be used, and taking them off, and setting it as far as 1% if we can get away with it. Thank you. A senator of this very needful tip. Of course, we should always work on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u16	Mr. President. Thank you. I am very pleased with the reply made by the chairman of the legal committee. I'd like to change my mind. According to a government bill by 2017, a government accountant does not express appreciation for the financial bills and suggests that he has not been able to introduce the necessary changes that he considers necessary. It appears that in the first place in 2020, a revised government bill will be transmitted by the General Assembly for the year 2019, succeed in completing the above - mentioned implementation according to plan. That's what I'm talking about. The senator doesn't agree with me that, first of all, there is an unacceptable situation in which a government account is unconvinced? And second of all, there's a why. Do I not agree that meetings and consultations need to be made in order to correct the situation? ' State account includes information about the legal tax system and its provision. The United States and the public have the right to establish information on this subject above any doubt. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u17	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur son of Ísleifsson for saying this. It was noted that government bills were signed, but without recognition. That's what we're thinking about in what we're thinking. The legal committee is the nature of the case according to the management department and the state accountant at a meeting of the Committee and carefully review the causes. Then there's a planned conference for all of the government's legislation, and it's a very important part of that, i.e. the cause of this. Is this the question of format, about the technicality of the economic reporting standard or accounting standard, etc.? We must all point out on the committee. Thank you. A senator for this comment and for calling attention to these factors. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u18	Mr. President. I thank the chairman of the budget board, what? paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson for his story here. What I wanted to do is, what we in the Middle East consider to be quite critical, that the government intends to finance changes in the budget because of changes in economic forecasts as well as changes the government does with the 2nd bill. by carbon dioxide emissions accounts of at least 4 billion bucks. I think there's a lot to suggest that in the future the government will have to buy this dinner back at a much higher price, since Iceland is not likely to be able to stay within its releases. Wait a minute. A senator is merely going to see if he thinks this is a reasonable arrangement. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u19	V.E.G. President. A Wise Argument? First, I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson and the member of the committee at what time. It's a legal committee for bringing this up. Yeah, on the income side, that was a card game. With the price of a ton today, it's a lucrative trade, and it's a good way to raise the income gate. I think we need to discuss this in a much larger context. I am not an expert on the impact this has on the future, e.g. on job life and clean products that we are selling Witnesses to foreign countries, etc. Keep it swinging. Besides, I'm not a business expert in this field. This is relatively new to a man. I think we're going to have to take a very close look at sales in such quotas and projections like this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u20	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I cut down exactly what he said, that we need to take a much deeper discussion on this subject. Therefore, I feel that it is unwise to take immediate action to sell these quotas without really having any discussion about what the value of this saying will be in the future. I'm afraid we're making a spur-of-a-moment decision to save any changes in gangs, etc. I think it's very important that we take this discussion. I have to say, I don't think it's a reasonable arrangement that the greater part suggests. But I'd like to make a quick entry to the fiscal tax. Last year, when the tax stock rose, it was promised that it would be revised, but no mention is made of such a review in the bill. By the time the capital tax was taken up, the low tax rate was short with a broad tax cut. [[The president calls.]] I'd like a little perspective. That's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u21	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For these comments, Þórarinsson's son's offer. I just reiterate my opinion of emissions and quotas that we are working on to cover a much deeper discussion on all these matters. It's a high price for this now, but it's not much in the big context. In terms of the fiscal tax, it was said to be involved in some form of inflation, which I believe is far too complicated compared to the rise being under way. There'll be an eternal debate about where we're supposed to have the fiscal tax and the concordance with the income tax. I think it was a wise choice to raise this normal last time. I think the changes they made were just too complicated.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u22	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator of history. It is the fact of a fact, no matter how much the administrative part tries to argue about it, that the size of the cut-off is directed to the welfare system, no matter what the plans were initially for an increase. The increase in discussions is greatly reduced. The government had to close 6 billion holes due to increased social inflation, and this could be closed by cutting down in the medical system and cutting down reforms for older citizens and disability, or significantly reducing the plans for their growth. What I want to ask you is why. A member of the Parliament in particular is cutting down a billion in nursing projects in this country. We received a report from the surgeon general of the country that reported that the list of waitings had increased by about 20% between years. Here the government responds quickly and surely by cutting down the contributions to their work. I wonder, " Could it not be possible to find any worthwhile assignment there to direct this billion people into being unable to take advantage of the project that was being delayed, according to the government? ' [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u23	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator and a member of the committee for what? A financial committee, Þorsteinn Víglundsson, the good question facing the nurses. V.E.G. A government sets out, and we support it, to build up a nursing room all over the country. But I think it's very wise to go over the field and see where we need to take literature into the budget year. That's what it's all about, and I did well in my speech. There are buildings that will inevitably be delayed for various reasons. That's bad. But that is primarily where these budgets are being reduced. But this space will rise.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u24	V.E.G. President. I have to say, I'm close. The debate that this was a delay never came into the board of budgetary committees on the subject of budgetary care. I'd call this a very convenient after-up. Hv. A senator might be able to tell me what subjects are thus delayed. Is it really so that there are no other tasks on the drawing table that could have been outlined in this order? It's good to remember that this billion that's cut down there is about one billion. 30 nurses in construction That's all there is to it. These are not some huge, insurmountable task that can then be set up on the project table. It just doesn't seem like there's anyone willing to do it. It is good to remember in this context that the nation is getting older. Fortunately, the number of the elderly is growing very rapidly. On the contrary, we are not doing anything to respond, cutting down a nurse's planning into a very urgent need. I really hope this is going to be revised between the 2nd and 3rd. This is not an acceptable practice.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u25	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson this question about the building of nursing homes. I don't have a list of these projects, but I can mention one example that is sadly delayed by a lawsuit, the Herald Summit of Kópavogi, which is a sad case that we have to solve, whether at the scene of a community or a state. So delayed taking the shovel stings for the treatment of the Land Hospital. The following year, something slows down, so there are many ways in which we can wisely reduce financial resources. I reiterate my first answer. I think it's a reasonable, responsible financial administration.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u26	Mr. President. I recommend Committee 1. It's a smaller section of the budget board. For example, I've previously said that this bill is the bill of lost instruments. It's sad how you put your priorities first. You can do much better than that. Let us draw it out at the beginning. We're at the height of the swing. The economy is shining, and I realize completely that you can't do everything for everyone, but there are things you can do that don't show up here without things going completely different. The role of the government is to ensure economic and social stability. Unfortunately, the financial bill does not make any sense. The government will not attack the necessary investments in the interiors of society or in the necessary government revenues, which then affect the well - being of all of us. It is important that government over money is responsible at the same time as the need for public investment is met. As the economic system is about to slow down, financial income will not be sufficient to finance current expenses. Therefore, it is necessary to look at both the back of the bill and the side of the income. Clearly, the budget does not include the future vision the Icelanders have called for, and all of us were kosins to follow just over a year ago. There is also considerable concern about the increase in economic uncertainty and the underlying factors, many of which are smiling and missing almost every day, as can be seen in the success of the crown. In the United States, we bring up the change to 17 teams of $24 billion, all of which are financed. These adjustments, however, offer priorities for the future. This is true of changes in government spending, but there are also ideas of changing government income resources, taxes. Then, 1st smaller things, despite these changes, are expected to have a higher share in government funds next year than the government groups expect in this bill. This is to make sure that when the economy becomes a dip, there is no need to cut down a vital service to the public. However, the changes made in the majority of the legal committees we've discussed this week are a real disappointment. After much of the legal committee's work, there are very little changes made on her part, and some of these are actually steps backwards, which are completely unprecedented, that more of the legal committees are going backwards in some lawsuits. And what do I mean by that? I'll go over it again. First of all, about the microchip. It is clear that the poor get a reduction from what had been announced on the budget two months ago. I managed to do so earlier in my answer to the chairman of the legal committee and finance minister yesterday. They were to receive 4 billion 2019 but received 2.9 billion. There's nothing vague about it. The argument is: System changes have not been implemented. Then I've said, "If they're going to be parties to themselves, shouldn't you just take all the money back, too, the 2.9 billion?" Or to do as we have suggested, to keep this 4 billion? First, it is not much, but it would have been enough for one third of what it costs to eliminate a dollar in return, the four billion people who are now supposed to be 2.9 billion. If we had lived up to what was in the bill, which is two months old, and went on a system change that would have taken effect after the first quarter of the year, as they have mentioned, we could have made these changes work over and over again. We often do so in this council hall. In some cases where our salary has been increased, the elevations have sometimes been repeated, but sometimes not. So it's possible if you want to. We in the United States will give its members an opportunity to fulfill these promises, for one of our adjustments is to ensure an additional 4 billion. We're talking about a budget bill of 900 billion. There's not going to be anything coming up. I'm a spokesman for responsible government matters, but now it's time to set priorities for the poor, the elderly, and the young. And now they're still going to stay behind. Housekeeping support. Consider his example. It is quite remarkable with the public housing support, especially in view of the fact that the labor movement has said that housing is their main struggle, i.e. The jury. Under these are the founding contributions, interest improvements, and so on. If we look at the bill, housing support is almost complete between 2018 and 2019. This is almost the same amount if we look at it in the table. And what does more of the legal committee do? They're going to pinch 90 million. K. of housing support. We're going backwards after all the work we're doing on a budget board. Why are we doing this? Is the situation at a housing market allowing us to get together there? However, this is a new proposal for a greater proportion of legal committees between 1 and 2. It's a step back. Transportation. There's an adjustment motion from the rest of it. It is over half a billion people, although we know that a road program is abject and little or no mention of the city line that is often spoken of. High school. Let's take it, too. High school doesn't get an additional, as we've been told here. If we look at the high school seminar, there will be a decline between 2018 and 2019. Yes, students have been reduced by the shorts, but the government praised the colleges that the short money would stay in. I know that budget for each student has gone up. That's what a minister will say from here on out. I'm not criticizing it. I criticize that the group of paintings was to keep their shorts, and we were to get some big offense. There's a lot of big goings around here that's always talking about. And now, the jury of high school gets a shrink from year to year, a slight reduction. What does more of the legal committee do? It only increases the cutbacks. There's supposed to be 80 million cuts. K. in something called normal school expenses. Why? It's going to be interesting to find answers to that question. Let's move on. Building up a new Hospital reduces 2.5 billion. I've got an explanation for what I think is normal, but I'd like to stay in the construction of a nursing home. I noticed that the chairman of the legal committee was merely trying to answer that question earlier. But I'd like to have another explanation for that. Building which homes are being delayed? It's a billion. The state saves 700 million dollars. K. in the non-employed nursing business, then a drop of 300 billion. K. of less stock costs. We didn't really get the answers from the Committee. It would be fascinating if someone could answer us the exact source of that information. The chairman mentioned some lawsuits and such. I think we need to get a more full picture in this regard, because it has a direct bearing on a land hospital. Some 130 elderly people live in the land hospital, where there are no place to live. It is not a new problem, but it is important that we rapidly build a nursing home, which is a government plan, and we support it. We support the good things the government does, but I can't agree with the construction cuts of 1 billion because we just heard of a delay in construction. I'll call for details on that. I'm still criticizing the majority of budgetors. There is now a cutoff of 200 million. K. in science and a competitive fund in research along with university research. No explanation available. Because. Similarly, developing cooperation should be reduced by 80 million. K., which you don't understand. At first, it was not as if we put much effort into development. It's an adjustment proposal from the rest of it. The foreign languages get 30 million. K. a cut-off between discussions. Here's a very interesting point. Nature protection, forestry, and tourism fund are being cut off by 170 million. K. Despite the climate of the government's own priorities. It's also a de-hide-bara number. No explanation. This is part of the modification proposals of much of the part. I've crossed over for the team to make some adjustments in the development of more parts from 1 to 2. are, in many ways, steps backwards, at least in the ones I have considered. We can agree on that. If we wait and talk about the bill all the time, the budgetary committee will have little need to put in real addition to elderly, college, high school, law enforcement, child - care programs, and interest benefits. I believe there is a repercussions in my opinion that a financial committee does not add a cent to the general management of health institutions in the country, not a dollar, but a total of 800 million. K. to support core services Local health agencies came to the Committee and said: To care for basic services, 800 million would be required. K. The committee, the other part, decided not to deal with it. Then it's odd not to respond to U.S. wishes. Only half the money they call to work on their lists and to support their activities in Akureyri, etc. That's 150 million. K. Why don't we just walk all the way? That was 300 million missing. A.J., the more part trusts in 150 million. K. Again, I think it's so strange politics, priorities, and completely unnecessary, plus that there's a good cause for this. I'm just gonna go back to the Committee opinion. We would like to agree with the criticism that came from the European Union of Iceland, ASI, which has criticized the development of public funds in recent years. The authors of ASI have said that public funds do not guarantee social stability. They have noted that here the necessary income stocks have been weakened, and social infrastructure has been neglected. This says ASI, it's not just the governor of the United States who says it. It is interesting to review here that according to the five-year financial programme that we supplied in spring, the consumption of the public, state, and team members is expected to slightly decrease for the next five years. That's interesting. The consumption of the medicinal product should decline for the next five years despite the age of the nation. And the growing age of the nation requires further investments in its infrastructure, that is, self - determination. The consumption is shrinking despite a big promise of infrastructure. Thus, the share of consumption in national production decreases slightly, as well as contributions to public investments. These are interesting facts, since the government groups say they are so very active in the infrastructure. But the numbers speak for themselves, and they say otherwise. There are also some basics of the budget that were supplied for the last spring, as well as the bill here. This is a very unrealistic basis. The bill and the plan were based on the fact that there would be 13 consecutive economic growths. Do you know how many times that has happened in Iceland? Never. There has never been a 13 - year - old economic growth, so optimism is unrealistic. This was said by one of the panels at a meeting of the budget committee, especially when we supplied the financial program. Let's just take a look at the crown gang. By the time the bill was released, it was based on the average number in July. Now that's changed. There's a new forecast. That requirement is even gone. The gang's been falling down. The gang was strong. This is what I've been drawing out. The gang's sometimes too weak and sometimes too strong. It's the poles that are killing all over the place. But notice how successful things are in our daily lives and the cost of life in Iceland. It's called a gang leak. When the crew collapses at 15 percentage points, as has happened lately, it means that everything we move in is increasing by 15%. We live a lot on import because we don't produce much in Iceland, so everything will go up. And one third of our totals is because of imported products, plus that oil and so on affect so many things. The economic principle is that the effect is about 0.4, so if the rate of reduction is 10%, that means that inflation is higher by 4%, inflation is just an increase in the cost of things. This, of course, will increase our loans, since in the vast majority of the loans, many of our home has inexplicable loans. And what calls for it? Let's go to the merry-go-round. This calls for higher interest. That is why we should speak more about the crews of the Crown and show how expensive it is for the Icelandic home. Yes, there are companies and individuals who can defend themselves against poles or in other currency, but Icelandic homes are not in that position. I'd also like to draw it up here, because there was a new Standards that assumed that inflation would increase. It'll get bigger than this, I promise you that. She was supposed to be 2.9% next year, and Haggis says she'll be 3.6%. I'm sure she'll be taller. But that's what the Haggis say. All right. That's a little interesting. Then the government raised what it is ready to raise our pay and our compensation, from 3.4% to 3.6%. It is of interest that at the time of the bill, in the case of the bill, inflation was 2.9% and the improvement was 3.4%, with an increase of 0.5% in commercial growth in microgritarians and the elderly. But now it is time for inflation to be 3.6% in the Haustitu way, and the improvement was increased to 3.6%, on a pair as follows. Previously, 0.5%. Again, the elderly and the micropunching are being pinched. I'd like to draw out the property equation. I'm like a scratched trick talking about property equations. Yeah, I know there's a lot of money here. I'm not going to talk about it right now. I'm going to talk about the property equation. He's huge in Iceland. Everyone in this room has heard me say this: 1% of the richest Americans have more pure property than 80% of the population. Increase the group: 5% of the richest Americans have almost as much as the other 95%. The people can see that. It's an unfair system. And the tax system is to be taken into account. The money will be made with the people and the business. They don't grow on trees. If we are to strengthen the infrastructure, we must be courageous and talk about taxes. I know it's not popular for politicians to talk about fiscal increases, but I'm totally unafraid and the Conspiracy is also speaking for that. In some areas, taxes need to be raised, especially for those with money, since otherwise we will not be able to finance what we and the nation have been calling on. Hospitals cost themselves. Schools are expensive. Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, It's quite remarkable when the government, which is somewhere, speaks for holding, that then is always the mantran: cut down, cut down. But they forget that there is also a part of the maintenance of income where it can be found. But this is not done. You can't scare the rich. I'm gonna go into some special groups. I hope I'm not repeating myself too much. I think I'll look at the evolution that attracts microchip, so I'm not going to repeat myself there. I'm just gonna talk about senior citizens. The administration of senior citizens came to us. She said she was very disappointed. No one sees the feast as a minister, and others believe that the elderly and the poor live in it. The senior officials told me at a meeting of a financial committee, and now I'm going to quote them directly, that they had never seen so low a number for a particular group of members of the community. Of course, some older ones are well - off, but there are a number who live in poverty. And getting older in Iceland, in the 11th richest country in the world, should not be the cause of poverty or uncertainty. That won't be necessary. We're a very rich society. I wouldn't talk like that if we were in 100th place or 50th place. But we're in number 11. We are few, we are rich in society, we have resources, we have powerful human resources, and we are not to leave these groups in the way this is done. Very few pay money taxes in Iceland. The ratio has the lowest in Europe, only 10%. That 10%, rich individuals, pays 70% of the capital tax. That's because when the Conspira was in power the last time, there was a payout target for capital tax, so very many pay no capital taxes. Only 2% of homes or families paid capital taxes for the stock market. There's a group that's better this time. I'm totally convinced of that. It is a strange trend, as one has noted, that the tax burden has increased most in low - incomeers. Remuneration has increased, but there is no law that the tax burden, the rate of income paid by a taxpayer, increases, for when we look at taxes, we also need to consider what the state takes from people. For example, there are benefits. They are important to people, child support, and interest benefits. I'll go over the baby benefits later. One-four is passed out of the child-replacement system because of the damages. Half the money's out of the interest. It's strange. In fact, there's a little step back, as I mentioned earlier. The estimated interest improvements for 2018 were higher than this bill does for 2019 i.e. 3.4 billion. The last time the Conspiracy was in the government, 100 billion dollars were set. in interest of interest and child support combined in the terms of the season. It matters who is in charge. This government is not interested in child development, not in growth reforms. Yes, they only raise the floor about child repairs, despite failing our suggestions in the United States at least two times and having a dog. paritaprevir It has always been said that our daughter, Oddný Harðardóttir, offered almost every Congress a proposal to raise child welfare. You should not start cutting down children's benefits far below the minimum. But what does the government do? Yes, we're going to 300,000 bucks. And we welcome all positive steps, and I can be quite positive too. At the same time, however, there is an increase in the decline in the number of people in the middle of the day. You can't just let it go? The cuts are good enough. No, it had to be done. In the process, there had to be a cut or an increased decrease in the number of middle incomeers. So a new step is reduced with regard to the child's recovery and results in a decrease in parent's income over 458,000 dollars. in a month, which is far below the medians or averages. The median price is 68,000 k., mean is higher, only 700, and something. So we're cutting down the baby benefits for people below the average. Of course, there's a certain political thing that's going to show up here. This is close to child reform as some kind of poverty grant. But child - welfare is nowhere else in the North countries thinking of poverty. According to a UNICEF report, some 6,000 children in Iceland were believed to suffer economic deficiency. Children's benefits are important for those in the lowest income group and the middle income group to make ends meet. And growth benefits do the same. These are small numbers in the big context, 3 billion in interest. However, when the last left command of major growth reforms was always half that of the earner group paying for the growth of tyres. It matters. The house-to-house business. I'm gonna wear them a little bit. I only mentioned earlier that there is a cold barrel in the face of the labor movement the messages in the bill that assumed to be almost the same centenarian number between 2018 and 2018, and now it comes with an incision. You'll see Table 140 if you don't believe your own numbers, as I often think it is. I don't understand that political bitch. We're going backwards. We're not going out there, i.e. Generals. We have a new proposal for this. Money isn't closed. We can still change this. I think it would grow in every politician, especially with the Generals. I know that my left - green companions have long been in a position of government and have often criticized why all of the proposals of the government have been dropped. It should not matter where good things come from. We're a small community. We're few in number. We can work much more together. Why, though, do government officials make every suggestion we make even if your current suggestions may be correct? It's the politics we're supposed to get out of. I say, I could go to 100 speeches of the green and forwarders and even the independents who have called for other schemes. Now you're facing it when we vote for various adjustments proposed by the Continent. I know you won't be supporting many of them, okay? These are different political groups. But some things are just from your own policy file, and they won't empty the state box or put everything on their side. You know it. You know that. You don't have to agree with everything we're offering. Of course we are. I know our politics, my politics, and politics, the highest. There's only a difference between child reforms and growth improvements. It's okay. It's just ideological differences. But there's no one to the left. I know, I know. If any of these proposals were to be viewed open - mindedly by members of the council, they would be accepted. You'd get the squeeze. It's not even about credit. It's just stupid to talk about it in that context. They would all add to it, plus that they would benefit from it. So I pray to you to consider this over the weekend. Why not support one, two, three, four suggestions? You can take all that step if you take it. I don't care. The birth lagoon. It's about to rise the roof or the limit just a little. All classes agree that the maternity needs to be improved, but I just want to say in terms of the fact that we have to think about birth strength. That is the ignominious amount of 70 or 80 thousand that a single parent receives if he or she is out of a job market or at school. We should consider this group only. I remind you there are a lot of friends in the maternity business. The colleges. There's a minister of education in the hall, who's very diligent in paying attention, which is good. We agree that education, college, and high school need to be improved. There is a very ambitious goal in the government covenant that I support as a whole. It's cool if we get the college funding up to the OECD target and then the Northern Point. That's great. Then I'll stand up and I'll pet the government. But we're not gonna make it. According to the five - year financial program, we are still under it. I'm on top of my mind. A minister of education in his lobsters about getting more money for this. She certainly deserves support from the United States in this regard. But she also has to live up to it, for this is very clear. I'm not going to get into a fight about -- Yes, I can, as far as I can argue about the cost of achieving this definition. I agree with the Minister that we need to nail it down. I know the Minister's looking at it. How much is it to reach the OECD target? What I've seen is that we will reach the OECD target provided there will be no economic growth in the OECD area. I hope that's not true. That's when the OECD target is stuck and we'll get it. We were supposed to make it 2020 and then 2025, but there is a substantial lack of minimum interest in the OECD area. The figures I've seen are that if we're going to reach OECD, we're going to have to increase it by 3.5 billion, and 11 billion, which is a very high figure, if we're going to reach the North American target of 2025. But I don't want to argue about numbers and facts, so I just hope that we can go along on this journey. Unlike basic schools, the colleges have long been underfunded in Iceland. We have one of the best budgets in the elementary school system, but colleges and high school are left behind. All of us realize that this is a time to spit in, especially with regard to the changes in society that lie ahead. We're supposed to bet on education. Of course, everyone agrees on that. Each dollar in education and research returns to more intensive human resources, more economic growth, etc. The education system is also important about the equation, so it is important that we not neglect it. I'm worried about the high school system. High school teachers came to us last winter. They use the word "endure. " They've reached the limit of endurance. The college extension should not be on any range of tolerability. I'd like to encourage all of us and the Minister, too, we have some kind of work and industry to do, but not just talk about it. This is the first speech of all Education Ministers, i.e. ... planto further-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do. We have to deal with it somehow. It's not a group of political issues or anything, I'll figure it out, we need to have more diversity in this regard. We've still got too much desertage to deal with. It affects you at school, etc. It is also about parents and family view of formal education. I'm not saying there are any easy solutions to that, but I promise you cooperation if you want to. Health issues. The health issues that are excellent have been improved, which is the case number one, two and three that the nation wanted, i.e. More money on health issues. Yet, this year's policy in the Land Hospital is down to almost 2 billion. Presidents of the Land Hospital came to us in spring and said that it would take a minimum of 5.4 billion for 2019, but the Landskeeper is now getting 2.5. I'm not talking about building at the hospital, she's in the process. But it is about 3 billion people needed to meet the needs of the hospital according to the government's goals. The health issues get so big quickly, so I know that this is a problem. One of the large numbers does not appear to be unique to health institutions in the country. With the six medical institutions in the country, 800 million people are not very high in this hall. That is the number those institutions called for just to attend to basic services. I know there's 200 billion in there. K. in the imaging device. That's good, but 800 million. K. missing basic services. The committee could have suggested, but they didn't. If you're watching where I'm in this committee, I'm halfway there. I'm in health care. We need to promote health centers in our country. It can also save costs in other areas. People don't have to come to Reykjavík, they don't need to use more expensive resources from the Land Hospital. There are so many investments in the public that not only are costs and expenses, they also save dollars and dollars, except that they relieve suffering and reduce discomfort and so on. We're worried about getting paid. You've been trying to relieve her. But better, if it's enough. We are still something from the climax about how much one needs to pay before it reaches its climax, such as the ASI and others have been pointing to, we must not forget it. I already mentioned S.H.I.E.L.D. They just need a little bit, they're 150 million short. K. to work on the lists. FEW works pricelessly, saving lives. Everyone supports that good work. However, words may be inexpensive in this hall. Money items need to be followed. But the other part just wants to put half into it, which is peculiar. Some health statistics are not very high. The police have noted that there is a shortage of law enforcement. There was some news in winter, I hope I'm right, that two, three, four police officers woke about 60,000 people in Kópavogi and a part of Reykjavík. Of course, something is wrong. This is the basic government service. The law. What is put into law is primarily because of border control, helicopters, and reactions due to the growth of tourists. The general legislature has fallen apart. You don't have to meet a lot of police officers to see that there's a job to do. Transportation. I'm no expert on transport, but we can see that the transport program is abdicating. Not much of a city line. It's a concern, because the urban line is not just a matter of improving public transport, it's also about the environment, climate. I would have liked to see some messages on the bill, that I don't talk about the five - year financial program, that there was more to it than the city line that would serve the whole country. As I mentioned at the outset, half a billion of the transport events between the 1st and 2. of it. Literally just that. There was no explanation why it was. Maybe she'll come later. I know many senators are interested in transportation. They should consider why this is done and discuss it with their ministers. Other factors. Business business. Now I'm going to quote it. The right men might want to listen to it more than me, by permission of the president: A small hole seems to be exciting innovation, where the bill assumes a recession to the jury. That's what business advice says. That's very peculiar. As I mentioned earlier, one of the more part of the legal committee is cutting down about 200 million. K. - Yes, they're only cutting it down. [[Up front.]] Increases in carbon charge. I'm glad we did, but we should've raised it more. Now that there are left greens in the government, they have not yet reached the rise that the previous government had decided with a bright future, a restoration, and the Independence Party. So the rise in carbon tax, which is one of the most reasonable taxes, is lower on the watch of greener than the Greenhouse and the Bright Future. That's very peculiar. I think we should raise it. Here's a motion I'd like to draw attention to as the Conspiracy suggests, i.e. ..to set 300 million. K. in the TV fund, so - called, not much has been done for that discussion. The TV fund's all under the film fund, the movie center. There's over a billion going to a movie fund, but a hell of a lot less to a TV fund. You've heard it from people's sources that almost nothing comes from there. Many studies show that in such activities, in the game of television, each dollar returns, both in the tax - tax - and - traffic box, but also when introduced in Iceland and so on. So I hope the Secretary of Education supports this proposal to 300 million. K. It wouldn't turn anything upside down, but it would make a difference with the strength to play a TV. Development teamwork. At times, a person is ashamed of why we do not put more into development. We are the 11th richest country in the world. We are far from the standard that the United Nations has called after we put into development aid. We're a lot under the North. We're not allowed to have any subs around here. I'm just going to review it and ask generals: "When did Iceland stop receiving United Nations development aid? When did Iceland stop helping from the UN Development Fund? That was 1976. That's as far as I'm concerned. In 1976 Iceland was the last to receive development aid. We must not forget that we were once a developing country. We were one of the poorest countries in Europe at the beginning of the last century. We have also had to rely on the international community in the past. We don't have to go back to ten years when we were so full on our knees after a crash. Then the international community, first through the International Cash Fund, so unique, came and helped us. We needed money to buy cancer, oil, pay our salary. So we have certainly had to rely on the world around us. Of course, we should give back when we're doing well. But what happens on Tuesday? This reduces the cost of developing cooperation by 80 million. K. We have a proposition for 400 million. K. if they are sent to the emergency help of UNICEF to the children of the Yemen. I hope this proposal of everyone gets through. As a result, we all grow bigger. I'd like to point to that in particular. Our proposal to make changes is 17. They are fully financed by the ideas here. But I'd like to state that the Conspiracy isn't offering an entire bill. If we were in government, there'd be a lot different things. Here are our ideas of tailoring bait from this financial bill of lost instruments. These are not the complete changes we would like to make. These are ideas. This is an opportunity for all of us to make the right course a little bit. Here, too, are ideas on how to finance this, even making more money, with which the minister of finance must be pleased. These suggestions and ideas - they're primarily ideas, we've been over this many times, that's all right -- for example. about sugar tax. That could be a minor one. We set up a sugar tax in our time. Some said that he was not tall enough to be effective. One result of economics is that financial motivation affects our behavior. We're in a hurry. And raising the cost of sugar works, plus that these are some of the income in the box. But we are not exactly close to it but out of public health. We consume too much sugar. We're one of the fattest people in Europe, without a joke. Sugar and sugary products should be more expensive, just as tobacco should be expensive. We'd like to take the first steps to put back on a sugar tax here. We also want additional resource costs. It should not surprise anyone that we talk about it. Let's go over it a little bit. The next year's fishing fee is 7 billion. In the budget bill of the last government, the fishing fee was to be held at about 10 billion dollars. for 2018, according to a budget bill of 2018. According to figures spoken of at least, the cost of fishing is even 11 billion. If that were the case, we'd be lowering the price of 4 billion. I think it's a peculiar priorities. It's been going really well on the fishing road. In seven years, the marine road gained about 400 billion. The seabed has been called the last year of the Golden Age. I know it's slowing down, but I also know that here we have big, strong seabed companies that can pay more for access to a resource they don't have. Not to be overlooked. Seafood companies do not own this resource. It's against the law. A resource worth up to a thousand billion, providing access to one of the most productive fishing grounds in the world. That means 7 billion are not the tall accessway. They say, "But the waters of the sea pay a income tax." - Yeah, yeah, every shop pays income tax. It's a normal part of being in a job life wherever you are. It is a license to hunt, to use this resource that you don't have. It's like a fishing permit. You buy a fishing permit and you go fishing. That should be 7 billion. Do they know how low it is? The amount of tobacco collected by the Icelandic State is 6 billion. So the fishing fee is becoming the same as the tobacco tax we put on cigarettes that 13% of our nation smoke. Does that make sense to people? Let's do this a little more absurd: Fishing costs are also due to cover the costs of public service; in surveillance, research, etc. The government's cost for fishing is 5 billion. That is shown in the hunting bill we will discuss. What, then, is the net level that the nation receives for access to the resources? Two billion, twice the number we collect in traffic tickets. That's not fair or logical, Mr. President. Of course, the resource debate is also supposed to be about energy resources and such. We also need to take that up, and we'll have to finish it sometime, get more money from foreign tourists. Here, indeed, are lost opportunities, for of course, this article needs a lead - up period. To travel from 500,000 tourists ten years ago to two and a half million years ago, and we do not yet decide how to earn more money from foreign tourists. They've tested nature passes, raised the sink, that's what they've come in, the exorbitant fees, the little host tax. We need to finish this discussion. And the money we're getting from foreign tourists is due to me being completely built up on this story, making toilets and steps. We are to find a way to earn more money from foreign tourists and not wait another year with nothing, so to speak, very little. The financing tax. I took care of him earlier. It's a good thing to raise it. He's relatively low in Iceland. He was raised last year, I realize that. He was 10%, think about it, but he's up to 22%. We've got a ticket goal. It matters. That's what the left government did. Most people who get some capital gains pay no financial taxes when the tax is made up, what people have under the holiday market. 10% pays 70% taxes. And only 2% pay money on the stock market money. According to the financial plan, the fiscal tax was to return $2 billion. higher next year than the bill expected. So here are a lot of ideas. I just want to finish it. It's still time to lower the bank tax, actually not next year, but financial planning. I can say that, of course, the bank tax should someday go. It's a strange tax stock, I'll admit it, but it's not a priority right now. That's 7 billion. It's funny that the board of directors puts it first. We welcome a down payment on the insurance fee. All right. We're amazed why the discount is just raised by 500 bucks. per month. We are glad, however, that there was no flat income tax decline. You can sense that here was a little behind the scenes in the summer when the Independence Party seemed to want to have a flat income taxation, while left greens would rather go to the character discount. A flat income tax deficiency has now fallen, as I understand it, and it's unfair. Flare taxation is of primary benefit to those with higher income, that is, self-employment. However, the personal discount is to be raised by over 500 cents. Above the price, which means so grossly calculated $1,500. increase in tax-free intervals. That's all, 540 bucks. The organization has a suggestion to eliminate tax discounts in the form of tax steps, but we've been repeatedly informed that this practice works against equality. That's what we have even. It is pointed to in the gender budget, and the Feminian financial body has pointed to it and to other members. But about 93% of this reimbursement, which is not small, is for the increase in the provision made by men, male income hairs. So we have to stop this together. BHM agrees with us and others. We also suggest that our rural communities receive the host tax. Of course, rural society needs to be consulted on how it will be implemented, but the European Union has emphasized this. And many mayors, especially the Independence Party, have called for this. This is 1.3 billion, which would then run into rural society. Then I think I've kind of considered our change proposals, on the other side of the pay gate, and then our ideas on how we're going to finance them. Finally, I'd like to reiterate that each approach to the United States is to protect intermediate and low income groups. All the tax changes I'm talking about spare the usual Icelanders, so to speak, add the spells to those who have money. There's a lot of people around here who have lots of money. We'll increase the spells there. They can't do that. We live in a community, and we have to finance it. There's no need to have a system that really attracts big people. Of course, there are limits. We're not taxing too much, we're just taxing enough. It's the approach from the Conspiracy. We want a more just system. We want to exploit the resources directly to the nation. That is not an unfair requirement. Of course, we want the fishing industry to succeed, and we are proud of the fishing road. He's practical and well fired from industry. We're not gonna change that. But it remains that we are a large fishing nation. Iceland has a 180th place over the size of the nations, but when we look to seafood, we are 19th place. We are a vast seabed nation that has achieved tremendous success in fishing conditions, whether thought of structure or practicality and production. The figures and righteousness require men to pay a higher price of resources to the nation. The Internet is 2 billion, and it's just embarrassingly small. We want the money of resources to be used to improve the standard of living and to make our country cheaper, better, and more just for everyone. Finally, there are so many things on this bill that lead to disappointment. Or perhaps it has just ceased to disappoint because it was similar to last year and with the financial program. But you don't have to stand for this. Children, middle - income and low - incomeers, elderly, poorer people, and patients and the majority of the public are badly betrayed by this bill. As I knew before, we don't do everything for everyone. Of course not! But what we're doing here is very realistic, both on the pay-off side and on the side of the income. Everyone would add to this, and the nation would rejoice if we were to achieve some common change to the groups that I know everyone wants to do well. There are 40,000 older citizens in this country, 20,000 cripples, our young people at a difficult rented market. The missions are enough and they never run out, I know it. But there's opportunities now, both because there's a lot of money in the box that won't last forever, I'll figure it out. But we can do better. I'm not talking for some irresponsible change proposals or everything on this side. I know if it all goes on its side, then it's mainly the low - income groups that suffer. I know, I know. That's not what I'm calling out for. I'm just calling for us to make the lives of the people of this country a little more bearable and less expensive. And there are opportunities. Then we need to be courageous and give support to some of the government's opposition and courage to discuss these tax changes. I realize that we'll be able to deal with taxes, we'll always be able to sort them out, but, anyway, I'm very optimistic by nature and believe that we could possibly get some kind of landing together. I was with all of you about a year ago at an election meeting. We were amazing, at least before the election. Let's continue to agree after the election, too. That's what I'm calling out for. Let us place extra money on these structures that the nation chose us to do. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u27	A respectable president. If you're going to discuss this talk, then why not? The senator, who knows little about the situation in general, would conclude that here we are coming out of a great downturn and should be difficult to straighten out, that for the council there was a financial bill that was being brought together instead of adding in the combination, that on the outpost there was not much fancy art. The fact is, though, that the budget, with the proposed changes, suggests that the next year's expenses will grow by 4.8%. Here we go. A senator who says: "It's not enough, that's not enough. We need to do much more. We need to make our expenses grow by 8% - 8% increase in expenses. There's a senator calling for it. So in the next sentence, he says: But notice that economic forecasts are all too optimistic, and here there is no reference to a calmness of economic growth, and we need to be careful and to save our resources, let's put 33 billion on the population in new taxes and expenses, much more spending, much more taxes, and all to go to worse ground. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's a United States message.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u28	Mr. President. I saw the highest. A minister found him in a lock last night in a bank account. We are not proclaiming any 33 billion; these are 24 billion that we are talking about. We are not telling them taxes on the people. I was particularly concerned about what groups these people were at. These tax ideas do not go to the general Icelander. This is an increase in capital taxes as a narrow group of Icelanders pay. These are resource costs paid by big companies in the country. These are foreign tourists, and I don't know why. A minister especially wants to consider this matter. We call for these money to stand by what he himself promised. We're not, like the highest. A minister could now, come out of a downturn, but we are coming out of a swing. That's why I'm so disappointed. There's just not enough here, I'm saying, top dog. Minister, but there's more to be done. I know I have these promises to be financed, I have to finance my words, but I do so by subsiding in the tax system and raising taxes or spending money on those who have money. [[The president calls.]] These are not empty words. [[The president calls.]] But I'm not talking about paying taxes on normal people.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u29	A respectable president. The suggestions are quite clear on the tax side. There are 26 billion in new taxes and fees, and the addition of that adds up to 7 billion. Twenty-six plus 7 equals 33 billion. These are new fees taken from the economy that will not then be employed to create jobs and increase activity. And they say, "It's no trouble to take more of the tourism. " What's the situation in today's tourism? Doing all right? Do they fight? How are restaurants in the middle of town? It seems to me there's a lot of 'em going under. Wait, why don't you just raise the money for the tourists? Why don't people raise the price, e.g. on rental cars or hotel bills or the city service? Why don't people raise it? That's because there's no room. Under normal circumstances, if there was room, the cost would be increased. But that's when it comes to it. A senator who says: "Well, that's not a problem, let's just increase the tax collections of the same people, new taxes for travel, bring back the sugar tax, that will change nothing into eating habits, no more than last time. He'll raise groceries, he'll raise prices. To increase taxes indefinitely is the only ideas man has in this direction. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u30	Mr. President. The only ideas, says the highest. Minister. It may be critical that such ideas are too detailed. Some of the jurists in Iceland could pay more. I thought we agreed on that. High-level party. Minister tried to include... the implementation of natural passes to make more money from foreign tourists. We still have part of the travel service in the lower sink level. Is it not true that free fishing is even without a valuable tax? It's easy to hide behind the small tourism company that narrows, a lot of big tourism companies. Consider the bus companies and other tourism companies who could pay more. It'd go into the prices. Imagine coming fees, 1,500 bucks. comet charge, take it as an example, it's just one of the ideas. That would give 4 billion government funds. Is there anyone who will stop coming to Iceland because it costs 1,500 more to come here? No. These are ways to get the money to live up to the promises of the highest. A minister who himself promised in the subsequent election an election of $ 100,000 billion built-in. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm calling out for. [[The president calls.]] I know I have one way or another to finance it, so I have ideas to look for the money where they can be found. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] - Excuse me.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u31	Mr. President would like my senators to have a speech lesson. He sees that men are moving away only from that 15-second space that the president has given before he starts hitting a little harder, so the president intends to lower it to 10 seconds. We'll see what happens.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u32	A respectable president. It's a book that I like very much. It's called Ten Causes for the World and Why Things Are Better Than You Think, by Hans Rosling, Physics, and Socialism. I think that's what. paritaprevir In fact, Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson should keep in mind that book when he now reviews education and what is going on in it. The fact is, high school is getting bigger. The fact is, the increase in business is 3.7% between years. The 2018 budget contained 31.5 billion, and 32.5 billion in 2019 C.E. That's an increase. That's a fact. An increase per student is 12% per year. I also want to reiterate that students are shrinking because of their shortcut, and we are not cutting their donations in this regard. [[The president calls.]] Hv. A senator also mentioned the equation strength. I'm just gonna explain what's going on with him.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u33	Mr. President. With President's permission, here it says about high school: fiscal years stay nearly constant, with a total budget of over 31 billion dollars. Where's this coming from? More than a part of the legal committee is made up of members of the Committee as members of the Supreme Class. Secretary of finance writes. Let us see the chart on page 140. There's a drop in high school, a small reduction, I know that, but a reduction anyway. I really like Hans Rosling. When he was in Harpa, I attended a lecture and something like that. I hate to argue about numbers, but okay, that's part of it. It's just not the big offense that was promised. The money was promised to stay and they won't even do it. What's the extra? I know that a student's budget has gone up, but it was not promised that high school would receive an injection and that the short money would be kept. That's not up to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u34	A respectable president. The fact is, we are raising our donations. It goes from 31.5 billion to 32.5 billion. We can go over it better later, but these are the numbers I have in front of me. Like what? A senator knows that each student is increasing by about 12%. It's a big offense, 12% per student. I understand why. A senator asks in equal strength. It's reduced, but it's because there's less demand for it, because there are fewer high school seniors in high school. I asked specifically about this. Is anyone denied their scholarship? Is the financial supply reduced by some student? No, it's not the situation. We are simply moving between sides, and our strength is lowered because there is less demand for it. That's why it's going to happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u35	Mr. President. Now I need a little corneal show here. I'm just going back to the board on the budget bill, and it says that it's a clear letter. High school: The number is lower. It's lower, slightly lower, much smaller than 16 million. [[Up front.]] This is one of the few topic areas, except for the housing support, where the figure is actually lower. Then it was nice to get an explanation. Minister for equal education costs. It comes as no surprise that high school officials come to the committee and claim that they have reached the limit of endurance. It's not words I make. I know it's the highest. A minister of education cares about his lawsuits, so I don't understand that she's had any better success than this, at least in the case of high school. I can't help but repeat that these are the numbers I get from her own bill. I can't rely on anything more than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u36	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Álafi Ágúst, Ólafur of Ágústsson, a man of extensive speech and background. It is evident from the chairman's speech that it burns to most of the things involved in welfare and that it is well. However, I feel that in a speech by the senator, there is an unreasonable attitude toward the main welfare issues involved, such as making donations for health care. Now it is clear that there is a significant increase in the amount of donations made for health care between years. It adds significantly, for example, a permanent contribution to the waiting list procedures is actually being made, and extra contributions are being made to pay the patient's payment, and this could be done for a long time. You wonder if there's an empty black behind it or what? I feel that this increase that has been completely in harmony with what was proposed in the cooperation of the government. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] How did the senator want to do this differently? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u37	The president reminds the senators to give the speech lesson. And for the people sitting at home, they are seriously ruining the experience of the Council, which can often be fun, that the sound of the bell becomes so strong. The President has to be equal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u38	Mr. President. How did I want to do this differently? I talked an hour ago about how I wanted to do this, it took me an hour to do it. I've been talking for 17 changes, the Continental highlights. Gold and income, all blackness. In some areas it is when a nursing home comes to a financial committee and talks about taking out the lamb on Sundays, cutting down food at Christmas. I think that's a very dark picture, huh? Senator. I also find a very dark picture when medical institutions in the country need 800 million to attend basic services, 0 from the bottom. A senator and his colleagues of the Committee. The land hospital still doesn't get what he needs. We do not meet the need, much less the injection we were going to give together. Of course, there are money here and there are some 900 billion who go into something. I'll figure it out. I'm promoting the weakness of the bill, especially on welfare matters. We agree - now we have a why. A senator may agree to 800 million to the medical institutions in the country and place the funds in a nursing home they have called for. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I encourage the senator to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u39	Mr. President. Only to the nursing homes and their language groups. Hv. A senator proposes a change, reminding me of a billion or something like that. I'd like to ask the senator to go further into whether this is primarily a matter of ideas about the rise in business or whether he is talking about ideas of raising donations for construction. The amount of money that had been planned for the next year to build up more nurses will not be useful. In that case, he is likely referring to all the money he speaks about the growth in business. Or isn't it? I'd also like to hear a little bit from the senator whether he thinks it's a reason to wait for a reexamination on the domestic network or if he just wants to decide in advance and assume that this is what needs to be done before continuing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u40	Mr. President. We're making budgets for next year. If we're going to turn more money into business, now's the time. Yes, this change in our proposal to a billion people in a nursing home goes to nursing homes. This is no new news for anyone who has observed it. That's interesting, as I could before, 730 million. K. the operation of a nursing facility due to a delay in the structure of 60 spaces in the operation. I hope I get a little clearer answers now or later why. And what is this delay? I've heard of myself that the National Hospital is very worried about this. It may well be that there is a reasonable explanation for this delay, as was the case with the construction of the new Hospital. There's something left here. The money, it's not a big deal for the nursing home if they get an injection from this room, I don't doubt for a minute that the money was spent to trust and secure the care of the nurses who don't have good business. This knows every senator, and especially so. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u41	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's speech is excellent. When it comes to social stability, we agree on much. Hv. A senator spoke much about our health - care system, as well as much about our nursing homes and the large context, which was often presented in the public talk. Senator. This is a transfer of 1% when it comes to the nursing homes in progress. This is a change of more than 1%. The total score contains 0.07%. At an assembly, nearly 300 million are available to improve their ministry. This nursing home will be raised. I'm absolutely convinced that what I'm saying is what I'm doing. A senator has taken up many projects, and 1% delay is not a big delay.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u42	Mr. President. Yeah, if it's small, it's easy to agree. The nurses receive 1/5 of what they asked for at a meeting of the legal committee. These 300 million come in handy, but they asked for 1.5 billion, and this is not the amount. That sounds like a high amount, an additional 1 billion, but it's not like a whale. A senator took care of himself. Nurse home and their organization sent, I don't know how many envelopes. We received very detailed data and reason on why they called for more money. Why do we meet only 1/5 of that need? Why not in all respects, if we agree on the structure of wood and social stability? But we don't, not in our opinion, and not in the opinion of the nursing homes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u43	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. We agree that we want to strengthen the platform of nursing homes and build them up so that people will be able to find out and will not become the models that have been built up. That's what they're doing. They're about to go into a nurse's construction campaign. But then I'd like to point out that when it comes to day-and-day expenses, contracts go out by year. Of course, it is an assignment that we hope to do well. I'm just gonna come in like a dog. A senator said that we were not doing anything for medical institutions in the country. The committee put 400 million people in the country to the health institutions, which are fixed in the frame a year ago. Now we're buying 200 million. I know there's a lot more money than that, but don't forget that 65 k. per 100 k. are well - mannered in these budgets. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u44	Mr. President. 900 billion goes to something. The money's on it. But here are serious weaknesses on the budget bill, as we've been talking about, and I've been talking about, which we could change since we agree so much. And I know we are, I was only courting those senators who agree with me, which I know there are many. I've had this conversation repeatedly with the budget board. We have the funds, not the Ministers. The proposals of a greater proportion of noncombatant legal committees are very limited. This is 5 million at the Icelandic horse's History site, 1.5 million here, 10 million there. These are absurdly small changes that originate with a greater portion of the budget board. The big numbers come from the counsellors, and I want to get out of it now that we agree with them. It's not like the bill was perfect when it arrived two months ago. Why do we need to swallow so much from the stewards, especially if we really agree on big things? [[The president calls.]] I know this isn't a new problem, but a financial committee is supposed to be taking a lot more power to run the fiscal bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u45	A respectable president. Let's just start with the boring incident of a budget board yesterday. Yesterday, the committee's opinion of most of the committee of 16 pp. But when I come in this morning and draw up the former opinions of the greater part, it is on 42 pages of this magazine. There's been a lot of lyrics added that I didn't have when I was making my committee opinion yesterday. This is extremely unfortunate, and I don't think it's a good procedure for the council at all. In any case, it is only natural for the above opinion to receive spelling correction or similar, but not for chapters or pages to be added to the committee's opinion once it has been taken from the committee. I want to make a serious comment about this. It also states specifically in the rules of the regular committees that it should usually be given to those who give the minor opinion, no less than two days, in order to complete and return it. It wasn't so this time. I signed it up at a meeting of the Gaming Committee yesterday or yesterday. Yesterday, I think it was, those days come together, I don't know if I slept much. [[Up front.]] Much of the financial work got upset just before the budget was taken out of the budget. There was a new national interest forecast that changed the parameters of the bill to the budget and budgets of the government. Many comments, as well as questions and answers given to members of the committee, have simply become out - of - date. One asked about funding for the others and for these lawsuits, received comments from visitors. Today, expenses have become quite different. What should a person do in such situations? The changes were made in a number of areas that were once given great emphasis, such as the topic of welfare. As a result of the reviews and data of the industry's Association, which have received a large report on the infrastructure in Iceland, the process of being a major offense was far from that. While transport contributions have been increasing in recent years, the results are much below the average by the GDP of the last two decades. At least it's missing. An average of 8.5 billion for the previous year, even when the year of collapse is taken in an average calculation, this results in an average decrease. One of the worst promises, however, is that of an increase of $4 billion in system development systems in the fields of disabled people and disability. There is a delay in the time of world system change for a quarter of a year in what must be called a savings operation because governments could completely take away the promise of $4 billion, and when they finally had decided what system changes should be done, they would simply be backtraced from January 1, like members of Congress, e.g. often experience retrospective pay adjustments. Thus all 4 billion promised would go out. It also prevents governments from being tempted to delay system change so that the budgets of the year will be slightly improved, at the expense of disabled people and disability, at the expense of those who have to put up with a cent to the limit for trying to increase their income, at the expense of people living in the poverty trap of the impairment. Official financial law was adopted in December 2015 at the 145th legislature Council. Since then, the formality of the law has been a little out of the way. In April 2016, financial policy was first introduced in 2017/2021, when together with the first financial programme. It was then known that an election would be announced in the fall. A management board made budgets based on the financial and financial policies laid out in the spring, but it is difficult to argue that a policy or plan has been followed in that budget. In January 2017, another financial policy was introduced by the new government in 2017 by 2017, a budget based on that spring policy, and then the budget at the beginning of Council 147. Then, in December 2017, another government set up financial policy for the next five years, during the year 2018, before 2018/2022. Then came the new financial plan. In the spring and now, the General Assembly has a bill to treat, which is based on financial policy and financial plans for the present government. It has been tried three times to initiate the process that laws on government finance expect to be the basis for stability and stability in public finances, that there should be a five - year strategy that is not to be taken into consideration, and a financial program that does not require annual reviews. Three times this has been tried, and still it has not been successful to complete the first year of the process, where the government has an acceptable time to set its course, plan and then enforce a budget. Something's always gone wrong. Economic, financial, or financial policies have been put forward after too little preparation or have not been given an acceptable time for conquistancy. The current government lives, for example. for financial policies that she did not have much time to prepare. Normally, the government would take over at the beginning of the summer, have all summer to prepare financial policy, and then contribute it at the same time that it provided a financial bill for the next year, not the same year that the budget came. Public financial laws changed the way things were done. A major criticism that has been brought about by the new arrangement is the kind of influence of the new law on the universal financial resources. The following should be kept in mind: The first point is 41 C.E. The Constitution says that no fee can be paid unless it is authorized for financial or financial contributions. This constitution puts the budget, or perhaps the legal authority, into the hands of the Generals, as it might be a little clearer in the future. The second point is found in a paper on public financial laws that also cover budgets. It says, by permission of the president: There will be financial responsibility for the appropriate minister and minister of finance. Along with the change in budgets, the section reports that the respective minister should submit policies for the topic fields and litigation classes. In other words, the General Assembly is now willing to agree on legal rights for litigation and litigation, not on budgets or special projects. Instead, a minister employs the distribution of funds, which according to the verb, seems to suggest that a minister can do whatever he wants with the financial resources that are given to him within the category of legal requirements. However, according to Article 19. the law on government finance, further disintegration of financial resources, on the members of a three-year budget. It might be said that a minister is required to show off his cards, how he intends to use the resources given to him by the Council. A little more on this later. The main change in public finance law was making all the budgetary and goal - making progress. The government is to submit policy in all fields of matter, setting them in motion with measurable objectives and measures. It will be a fundamental requirement for the government to fulfill government laws on public finances that the objective and measures of the government are costly. It is not enough to suggest that budgets for the financial sector without changing the financial capital for government policy are supported by cost evaluation. The General will not be able to make a financial decision without this support. The legal rights to legal classes work the same way. The General doesn't have financial authority if the Ministry doesn't cover the measures made by the Ministers, but will offer just one total amount, without demolition, for individual policies. If a minister claims to need a billion extra to a suit but does not explain what the billion are going to do, not at the Council to give that billion ministers. If your child asks for a thousand bucks to go to the store, you must want to know why and what that call is going to be. You see, ministers are something like members of Congress. Senators need to know what Ministers will do before they do it. This is called a surveillance of the Commission or, in this case, a financial follow-up. If a minister doesn't say what he's going to do with the money that he's going to give him, it's impossible to keep track of the budget. The budget, for example, is now a goal - price drive. It is not to be driven by any well - motivated minister, although a minister certainly has more room for funding than before. There is a limit to the aim - making government action programme, which provides clear reasons for what a minister asks for additional financial resources, reasons that can be found in the cost of action that will result in reaching targets according to the proposed criteria. In the budget bill, there is a serious lack of financial transparency. It is so impossible to find out why budgetary spending or spending space, or whatever it is called, increases the amount listed in each topic field. Some exceptions can be found, but this is mainly because there is no spending space in the topic field. It doesn't have to explain anything if it doesn't change. [[Up front.]] To further explain what is behind the various legal resources, a financial committee is provided additionally with the government's advisers. While this arrangement may be a means of explaining vague financial support, it is critical for various reasons. Why shouldn't information about the dissociation of linked bills and the spending beds be displayed in the bill itself? For example, in the United States alone, a financial committee received a disintegration of a tax pool within the topic area 4, which deals with foreign affairs. There's 725 billion there. K. The tax vectors explained by increasing the number of professionals's representatives at the Brussels embassy about 162 million. K. and increase the contribution to development cooperation to 0.28% of the gross incomes of 2019 by 563 billion. K. What a fine example this presentation is! It's a disunition of the spending bed to up to a million. Sadly, though, it is the exception of the rule. A very small number of government agencies presented such discriminatory sources that appeared on the bill for financiership. For that reason 2 memory of things asked, that's me, for such dissociation from all kinds of councils. Very few responses were received. In fact, just one thing. With existing disunited sources, 2 smaller portions explained how they felt and compared government financial authority with government policy. Such a work was possible only in part, with only part of the budget being completely broken down. That comparison revealed some interesting facts. For example, the government's policy on foreign affairs is, by permission of Presidents, to better protect the baseline foreign policy, democracy and respect for legal and international law, humane and human rights, the equality of all, sustainable development, disarmament and peaceful solution of issues in this world. Nice goal. One government action to achieve this goal is, by permission of the President, that Iceland's facility will be well established in the Council of Human Rights in 2019 and work on emphasises that will include. to equality, rights to queers, and reforms within the council, to be rights and rights. Again: Nice operation. But the first question that the senators should ask about is where the funding for this will come from. How much will this operation cost? Is this part of our commitmental spending, or are these new expenses, so should we care for the spending bed? Or is this something funded within the framework? All kinds of fun options. But the only thing is that it can't be financed according to priorities. This is a special procedure proposed by our new session at the United Nations Human Rights Council. This did not happen until July 13, 2018, after the approval of the current financial programme. Iceland's Member States that the Council of Human Rights was not possible until the United States resigned from the Council of Human Rights, June 19, which is also after a valid financial programme was adopted. So the government's operation that will be successful when the U.S. National Institute of Human Rights is successful is new. So she must follow a new budget, which means that there is a need to be a search for a balance between the spending range. In the Ministry's data, the budget vector is divided into these two points, on the one hand an increase in the number of representatives in Brussels, and on the other hand, an increase in contribution to development cooperation. Clearly, the United Nations Human Rights Agency cannot be financed by an increasing representative in Brussels. Then there must be a lack of contributions from developing cooperation. But it's impossible to see how much of that increase goes to Iceland's National Human Rights Agency, since this procedure is as much a cost as any other government action. Senators can unsolve the money path from a budget or from the scope of success measures in relation to the measurable policy set by the government. That makes Minister's annual reports absolutely useless. The answer, however, comes from the government's proposals where new funds are added just before a financial committee finishes its work. U.S. National Human Rights Council has an additional 65 million. For some reason, a session of the Human Rights Council could be installed as a budget-based procedure, but it could not be set up for that procedure at the same time. This and so many other factors make the bill very difficult to understand, for conversations in various language areas simply fail. 2. Less items could not have known that this operation had not been financed. It would be best then not to be published in the bill or to explain that it was priceless. Instead, search for a means to which no one is found. It makes it appear that numbers don't match, and everything looks wrong, because it's wrong. Another example is found in the 29th matter of family affairs. There, a financial committee received a clear presentation explaining the total of expenses and spending space. Very well done. I recommend that presentation, it's in the package leaflets. But then came the Ministry of Presidency and announced that 25 million extra goes to a great children's executive, who are in the same topic as previously introduced family matters. All of a sudden, 25 million. Then there's 25 million in minus it, they're missing somewhere. The figures fit the first presentation, but 25 million were added. That doesn't make any sense anymore. In the field of culture, art, sports and youth, there are 373 billion missing. K. On the basis of the Ministry's presentation, probably because some of the money comes from a previous year's financial frame. But that is not explained. I suggest that people look at the following statements to this committee opinion to see how different the presentations of the consultants are and how accurate they are. The bill for the budget of 2019 is the first budget bill for three years to receive legal treatment at the council. How disappointing it is, then, that the bill is extremely open, since there is no way to understand how government policy affects government finances! There is no assessment of the financial scope of government policy, no cost to the government's efforts to achieve its objectives in its government covenant and no assessment of the benefits of government policy to the future. A government review has issued a declaration that it is not going to give a opinion when the bill comes on a government account, as stated in a government account by 2017, by permission of a president: Since the full implementation of new accounting rules has not been completed and will not be completed until the end of 2019, a government accountant does not express appreciation for the financial bill. A member of the Management Board will make a more thorough report for the review of the 2017 State account in a special report that will be submitted to the General Assembly. In addition, the section on the responsibility of the minister and district manager of the state accounts, with the permission of the president, says: In accordance with the laws and regulations in terms of government accounts and other information needed to clarify the growth and status of state funds. Their responsibility also includes the maintenance of proper internal supervision in the construction and implementation of a state account so that it is essentially without major problems, whether because of fraud or failure. These are no petty words expressed in the opinion of a State accountant. As a result, we can conclude that a state accountant's report to the General for a financial account will be very interesting, more interesting than I ever thought that something that might be related to a revision might become. In my objection to the chairman of the branch committee earlier, I asked if it was following a government law on government finance, and the answer was quite yes, then it does not seem to be compared to the answer of a government accountant. A great deal of discussion has been made about the general fiscal authority and whether the government's legal rights somehow include the extenuating authority to the Minister. The argument is twofold, one on the other, financial, financial, and then on the other. The financial and financial programmes set out terms on the terms of the financial budget, limitation of them, spending of causes of public and other resources. The budget is a matter of whether the Council's legislation can exceed policy and strategy standards. After all, each member of the Parliament has the right to make a decision in the matter of Congress, and each member of the Parliament has the right to vote according to his own convictions. This means that members of Congress can violate approved financial policies or financial programs if they choose to do so. The government and its ministers, however, are bound by a broad range of economic and financial issues. It is their responsibility to enforce the approval of the General Assembly and to comply with the government laws on public finances. At the same time as this is the inevitable conclusion of a senator's right and conviction, it is possible for members of the Parliament to disrupt the baseline values of public financial laws. Clearly, there is not much fixation, stability, sustainability, caution, or transparency in making only any form of adjustment that comes into their mind with a financial bill. You see, making adjustments is often a political drama. It is inexpensive for the smaller parts to provide the various suggestions that are known to increase the share will not accept. It is inexpensive for the smaller section to offer suggestions that are based on some categories within the majority of the section and to force the group to reject changes that are in its direction. It's inexpensive because the smaller part will never be charged with responsibility for their proposals, but it can still brag about having submitted it. This is something that the more part can ill say, but I in my part can say, and I want to say it on behalf of the greater part, in a way. [[Up front.]] You're welcome. A basic law on public financial matters puts forth a set requirement, and members of Congress, of course, must comply with the law. However, the personal right of a senator is not limited by financial and financial policies, as there is a pact proposal for the government. The current section follows the narrow path in which the government made changes that were within financial policy goals, while members of more part of the legal committee are suggesting changes that violate the policy's targets. If the decision in a government account fails, it must be the Council, specifically the members of the government, to teach, not the government. According to this, the Ministers of the Government will agree to accept the change from a greater part of the budget board, but thereby the government will agree to violate the financial policy extraction criteria. The other part of the evidence is that the Council is losing the financial authority turns around to the secretary's authority to divide funds into trusts, that the council accepts only certain general permission for cause and litigation, but a minister can do as much as he pleases within each seminary. That criticism, however, is not entirely justified. The secretary has to show the development of funds to the Member State for the next three years in the financial Summit and must be informed if there are any abnormalities in the programme. A minister must also implement a policy with measurable criteria for each topic field and suggest actions to achieve that target. So far, no cost plan has followed the policy of causes, despite obligation, in financial and financial programmes. Otherwise, it is impossible for members of Congress to understand why a minister needs additional funds and the benefits of granting them permission. It will also be impossible to monitor the implementation of budgets and to see if governments achieve practical goals. Whether we reach the target by an operation that costs 10 million or 100 million. If the action is not costly, it is impossible to criticize how the minister of the legal authority for the operation. There is no way to say that a minister may have spent beyond a budget and ask for a reason. Also, it is impossible to commend him for being under a plan or to ask why he was so overrated at expense. Finally, the secretary's annual reports will be of no use because they can boast of a variety of achievements they said they would never do, and there is no way to say that they did not just happen automatically without the government's interference. If ministers are not charged with promises ahead of time, they can easily adorn themselves with stolen feathers. You see, unless members of the Parliament decide to leave the Council, they do not leave the Council. If the senators accept that the government is not costing its policy, they are giving up their financial resources. The only thing necessary for the General Assembly to hold the budget is for senators to stand up to counsellors, to do their duty of observation, and to draw a line in the sand when ministers ask for a prescription on the handsmen. Or in modern languages, the council might be giving a credit card to the minister of the council, along with a pin number, when legal documents are approved without explanation. Go ahead, spend it any way you want. A very interesting chapter is the handling of the International Parliamentis and the budgetary Committee. On September 11, 2018, a bill was distributed after lunch. 1st. The morning began two days later. The discussion took two days at the council, where financial ministers and spoke the former day, and then other ministers received a very limited period the second day to introduce the work of their subject. No matter how extensive there were in the area of affairs, there was no difference. Whether a minister could present a presentation in his language fields at the time given or not. Ministers deserve more time. Congress officials deserve that ministers can communicate everything that is important in the Senate hearing chair, and citizens in the country deserve to have all the data presented. It is urgent to give more time to the 1st. budgets in the future, more time after budgeting and until the end of the 1st. will begin and set aside more time to include a minister's history within the time they are assigned to present themselves in their media fields. In addition, a general discussion of budget one met. there is more time, therefore, on government law on public finances, the government's policy has become an important part of the budget and the time for searching and asking for some particular measures or goals. It's only about the work of the budget board. A financial committee was brought up with good visitors. The Ministry of Economics and Economics often came, as you can see. The table listed here shows meeting times in hours and minutes, rounded to the next five minutes or so. These are a few pages. Visitors showed up for about 54 hours at 0 hours of the internal diagnostic work of the budget board. Although visitors are very important to the budgetary committee, and the general Senate work might be considered to make them more efficient in some way, e.g. by increasing communication through reviews, that the panel's questions about reviews are e.g. Sends a client and answers before deciding whether guests must be invited to a meeting of the Committee. The reason is two: one is limited, the meeting period was 54 hours, and the other is often presented in the committee's questions and the answers to the members of the committee's smaller and high places, the information that is important to have as the most clear and least dependent on the memory and interpretation of members of the Parliament. The purpose of having guests attend often seems to be atoning and part of the council's clock, meaning box listening to a hearer. Visitors are a top priority for members of the Committee to Re-Elect. The problem is that much of what is presented in committee meetings does not result in sufficient accuracy from committees. This is one of the reasons that Piratars have spoken about the need for committees in general to be open. There was very little discussion on the subject of bill making budgets between members of the committee at committee meetings. Almost all the time the committee talked with guests. It was little or no time to share the reviews, either before visitors presented their comments or thereafter. Information of my second, I, requested at the first meeting of the budget committee for the disassignment of the increased budgets of each Ministry only received from the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs. Several other departments explained their dissension in their presentation to the committee, but more of the consulting work never answered the information request. The reason for the request was that the figures listed in the bill for financial contributions often do not match the request for additional documents. This example of an unsupervised information request illustrates the contribution of the General Assembly on a bill. There is a lot of unpleasant contradictions or lack of information in the bill that no interest seems to be on the subject. As a result, the General surrenders the funds. Nothing that the government can do with the financial resources can be attributed to a minister's responsibilities, and it cannot be determined whether public funds have been handled properly, whether the funds given on a particular project have paid for financial gain in society or other. Counsellors may find it most convenient to have as much space as possible to adjust according to the circumstances, but the council should not accept that ministers have such an allowance. The requirement for the Council to be clear and costly a course that can be followed in order to justify the implementation of the tax returns to just and practical to all. Finally, the treatment of the budgetary committee must be mentioned at the request for individual funds. A standard response was made in which the request was referred to an appropriate minister responsible for policy-making in the field of request. Then a minister was also asked to give an answer to the branch office on the Ministry's response to each request. As indicated by the opinion of the greater part, answers were not always satisfactory. 2nd smaller points agree with that, and even considers it to be too mild to be said. The answers were not satisfactory in any case. An answer was received only from four conferences, the Ministry of Justice for one request, the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs for one request, the Ministry of Health, and the Ministry of Education and Culture, for one request. But a total of 49 stanzas received a financial committee according to the number of documents registered in the committee's filing system. Anyone who wants to see that the work that a financial committee puts on identifying and window on a bill is more traditional, and the practice of entering the floor of a trust board comes to a large number of employees who were formerly asking for interest. This work is still in the hands of the people, despite the emphasis on the financial process. Although budgets should be targeted and successful and baseline, budgetary committees continue to organize visitors into the old budget-based process. In a sense, that is understandable. It's hard to get out of the habit and change the way you work. When things are changed, things can go wrong. But it's not even tried. The type of effort shown, e.g. to direct the petition to the minister, so inexpensive when the greater portion ends, it sells over here and there in terms of the districts. These projects may be interesting and important, but there is no evidence to determine whether or not they might be. is about to be a twofold project. In fact, a greater share puts extra money on a project that has been signed by the Ministry to request a minister who is not listed among the requests received by a financial committee. This work depends on the old book, and by the end of the day, more of the council works, as the Commission says. Now, 2nd memory makes adjustments to the bill for financial purposes. The bill is employed on a faulty financial program that should have returned to the government because there was a missing cost analysis of government policy in the program, and a bill to finance reflects that flaw. It affects all financial debates, from economic analysis of government's changes to control the implementation of funding. Substitution becomes less certain, and the product is inevitable based on guesswork. This makes all the changes made to a bill more difficult, for their influence on the big picture is less clear. A lower portion, however, considers some changes to be inevitable or, at worst, neutral for the survival of the government and its citizens. At first, any privileges requested by the Ministers must be canceled and not explained. It's in the middle of nowhere. 471, 1. This proposal is made: The following causes of burning are reduced because of unexplained financial requests. The combined total is 8,193 billion. K. Because of the financial requests that I or my associates could not possibly find explanation for in the bill for funding or introductions and data to the financial committee. At the same time, 2nd will contribute less items to the increase in financial resources in specific projects, such as this will be shown. 460. This includes: finding a permanent increase in health care institutions, temporary increases to the National Hospital ◯ University Hospital for care care care and remuneration failures due to collective contracts, a permanent charge to the centennial decline from April 1st of 2018, it is up to 7.6 billion, permanent contributions to hospital transport, permanent contributions to the OPAAT agent's agent, a permanent operation to the land strategment, a permanent status supply for the Association Commission to promote the monitoring of competitive, state taxpayers, police and labour agencies due to the workaid agency, the National Requisition of the new federal Protection Act, a record of more than two national genders, and taxpaying taxpayers, temporarily to promote the taxpaying of the Member States, to a temporary attention of the Member State's of the Member State, to the Member State's, to the Member State's, to a temporary increase of the Member State's requisition of the Member State's, to the Member State's requistification of the Member State's, to the Member States 'employ of the Member State's, to the Member State's 'employ of the Member State's office, to the Member State's office of the Member State's office of the Member State's, to the Member State's, temporarily required to the Member State's office, to the Member State's office of the Member State's office of the Member State's office of the Member State's office of the Member State's office of the Member State's office of the Member State's, to the Member State's, temporarily required to the Member State's office of the Member State's, to the Member State's, to the Member State's office, to the Member State's office of the Member State's office, to the Member State's office, to the Member State's office, to the Member State's office, to the Member State's, to the Member State'revement of the Member State's's of the Member State's office of the Member State's office of the Member State's office of the Member State's of the Member State's of the Member State's of the Member State's need to the Member State's office of the Member State's need to to strengthen small and medium-sized structures. I'm going to discuss a little bit more of the committee's opinion. Unfortunately, when I was working on my committee opinion, I did not get all the committee opinion, so my coverage may have been a sign. One section of the Committee's opinion of the greater part discusses the statistical format of the data bill for financial support and follow-up. It gives the Commission's comments on the format of the index, detailed leaflets, smaller repetitions, and detailed explanation of the so-called budget. A smaller section includes these indications of the greater part, and a further 2. smaller section will add that the format of the bill and leaflet will be standardized with regard to the presentation of the statistical explanations, that the presentation of the introductions of the advisers will be consistent. As you can see in the accompanying documents of this committee opinion, there are no two presentations like this. The presentation of the data compared to previous years might also be improved, and it is necessary to work further back into time to see the actual and reasonable production of revenues and pay due to a number of comparing factors, such as comparison of topic areas, seminaries, and individual topics or projects over the years. Finally, it is necessary to enforce the synopsis No. 51 of the 145th legislature, a computer document. If there's a need for electronic production, it's in financial and related matters. I'm going to keep to a particular subject. We're here to take it from the 2nd districts. This will help us to enjoy our time of debate. Finally, a little condensed. I admit that the material criticism of this committee is partly to the events of teaching that took place just before a bill was taken up from a budget board. These events had a major impact on the position of a lower point of view, but there was sufficient reason for criticism before the government's transition. The main criticism of the 2nd smaller parts turns to the form and treatment of financial matters. Of course, politics and financial decisions can be criticized here and there. But until we've fixed the form and format and we know what numbers are actually at home, it's much harder to talk about the amount of money going here and there. You can find them here and there, but you can always turn them around and change your presentation of when to start counting and when not and all kinds of things. The project was definitely huge, i.e. to prepare a budget bill, as has been over and over in recent years. The financial well - being of broken wounds is truly evident in transport, health, education, and other welfare issues. The debt of maintenance has skyrocketed over us, no less than our own loans have been made in the wake of the collapse. The problem is that we do not see the interest cost of dropping important structures. On the other hand, we see the interest costs of the loans and howl, understandablely, we are. If we saw the maintenance expenses, we would no doubt be shocked too. We would even set priorities for our maintenance debt beyond our debt because of loans or human investments. However, because we do not know how much it costs us to neglect our relationships or human resources, we cannot make an informed decision as to the best way to direct capitals out of our common funds. The coming year will definitely be interesting. Not exactly that there are bright times ahead in a cooling economy and a future bargaining agreement. Despite the criticism of this committee, though, I am positive about the rest. Despite the lack of much patience in society's governments, Icelanders are accustomed to doing what is needed to make things work. I trust the people of the country to show the government and the general support needed to ensure the necessary development in spite of the background on this budget bill. At the worst, Iceland is always the best.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u46	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, a fellow worker at the head of his head. The budget, for a very nice speech. Like what? A senator, both at the beginning and at the end of a talk, has further material discussions for the second discussion and was primarily in the form and is well because we are always trying to improve the process. The first thing I want to do is get in there. A senator mentioned in the talk when we took out the committee's opinion of more things. You're right. A candidate came to see that there was a need for an caption or a detailed caption to make changes, and that is, of course, a large part of the committee's opinion. It was missing in such a complaint from the pages in a section on family matters that had not been inserted, but no major changes, ending in 16 pages, i.e. The main ingredient of the text, but no numbers. I just want to share it, but whatever it is, it's right. A senator said. And it was in document processing to provide detailed captions for all changes to help senators get to the bottom of what it was really going to be and where the money is ordered and on what conditions. So they say. Then the form, because we agree on it, i.e. The committee, about the ransom bridge, that there's no one else at work. Legal committee, but what? A senator better able to explain how we could turn the form into a presentation. I'll wait. A senator to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u47	A respectable president. As for this deposit bridge, I could not possibly find it when an explanation of where this coin should go, on this or the other project; I didn't know which key he went on, what case he goes or something about the same. When I make some adjustments, I can barely trace myself to where to go. It's even impossible in some cases, since I can't find out what money's supposed to go. If I'm going to take him away, I don't know what case I'm taking that down. It's impossible, of course. In the process of disintegration of your spending and the spending range, this should be done in any topic area, a case, etc. every disunition must go. This just needs to be clearly presented in a very clear table. I think that's why we get into this thing repeatedly - like the opinion of the committee as it is. The chairman of the financier referred to being in the document processing process, trying to add some kind of explanation - that is the short time we are always given. What we senators can only say is, "No, I'm sorry. I know that President is very interested in meeting some work programme, etc. But we have to do it well too. Doing this well, it certainly means that, like those who give minor amounts, they can go over the majority opinion, and they can see all the factors laid up to be of even agreement with them. You see, we are at a cross section in this business process about public financial laws. This is the first time we've gotten this far into the process, and we're only in the first year of five. How important it is that members of the Parliament, especially members of the budget committee, come and discuss only the matter of public financial matters! What is our stand against the law today in view of the very resources and other factors so necessary to maintain the discipline mentioned. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u48	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The answer is given to Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, and I agree with him. A senator on the budget bridge, that's what he's got. A senator was very well described. I was going to draw out the text that we share in terms of more parts and 2, smaller parts, but slow. A senator explained this very well. And I think it would also be helpful for all members of the council and others who want to study the subject of the bill and the topic areas of researching it. This is a very useful presentation. The text is often fully understood for an explanation of the graphic form. We should be able to correct that. Only continue to form. Hv. A senator introduced the Al Parliamentary Fundamentalty and then the production of financial and financial policies and Article 4. as confirmed by a trend consistent with and based on baseline values considered at 2 mg. Section 6. and then the conditions of 7th pars. In the 5th. The law on government finance, on financial programmes, is that in the resolution of the General on financial agenda, it should be the basis of the budget, the bill we are discussing. If we got a view, we'd have it. The senator's criticism of the inflexibleness of the 7th Article. Let's assume that the economic forecast, which changed the criteria, would have been 1% recession, we'd have had a bit of a problem on the floor of the policy with 1%.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u49	A respectable president. Thanks for that. I asked the secretary of finance for this very thing, in fact, according to financial tips. In their reviews, financial advisers have established that it is in government itself set out the scope of the situation. The minister of finance interprets this criteria as floor or higher. You can return 1%, two, three, four percent, but not lower. This has been made clear in the reply of a minister. It would only then be the next government to set a standard, in 152%, not to go beyond that in order to maintain a certain degree of discipline or discipline. Given the law, I think they allow it to really allow the government to set up their own limits, that's why in minus or plus, and that's just an opinion based on financial advice on what that means for the rest, what that means for the economy, etc. I don't think it's complicated in this case. Secretary of finance has made it clear that 1% is what the government and the government are going to stick to, as well as/or over it. There, the natural government must adjust its actions to achieve that goal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u50	Mr. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's carriage before the talk. Hv. A candidate talks extensively in his talk. We're using a law on public financial matters, and it's linked. I'd like to ask about the minority proposal from what. A senator for reducing unexplained legal resources on up to 8.2 billion, which first occurs in the subject field of 27th - century Greece and the affairs of disabled people, over 5 billion, and then on the topic field 24, non - hospital health services, over 1,300 million. Well, maybe. A senator goes through just what's behind? So maybe in general about the politics of the budget bill. There's a 4.8% increase in the frame, an increase. We've seen in recent years an actual increase of 74 to 68%, so this is the fourth year in a row with significant increases in the budget. I'd like a second's opinion. A senator sees the huge increases in the government business, the budgets. What do you think? A senator on these developments during the past few years? It would be nice to get it out, what's about this may not have been discussed much over the years.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u51	A respectable president. Yes, I suppose this is the first time someone's suggested that the budget be reduced in a financial debate? I don't know exactly. However, there is another adjustment in the way we make it. What we're doing then is finding out all the sources we don't see to be explained. We're just trying to remind them of and to add other explaining projects, and sources of money explained projects instead. The 27th subject, which has 5 billion, has e.g. $1 billion for me, I don't know what. I know that 4 billion people are going into a system change, but we don't know what they're supposed to be, so it's not clear right now. We'll take it back to 4 billion, minus, and then we'll take a dollar back to plus. Then there will be an explanation for an increase in funds. That's the case, if it answers the question. We need to realize that we are coming from a low state of regret. In fact, the government's financial laws were in absolute minimum. I don't know if there's any way we can talk about extreme increases or if we're just getting normal. That's what I've complained about missing statistics, and that's why I often ask questions about how the situation of this situation was quite to 2006 or 2005 or 2003 or whenever it is, in order to get a realistic comparison that is not coloured or pulled down by the low average crash years. I think we're about to get to the place we were in before the time of crash or something like it. We're under it, for example. for transportation. You can take into account that you can say: Yes, we're going to a huge rise. Still, we haven't reached the proportion we used to have in transportation, so I'm not going directly to say that we've gone into some huge rise. [[The president calls.]] I think we're in some kind of balance.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u52	Mr. President. Maybe I'm confused. It says that there are 5 billion of the microenergy sector involved, but I can't see better than the fact that I'm talking about improving 13 in the maternity diet. It doesn't turn toward the energy, a crown against a crown, so I don't completely figure it out. The reduction of about 5 billion to disability is in one place, but 13 billion are also to be added. There may be some clumps that I don't quite understand in that process and would be nice to get it out. I think it's clear in terms of more that when you look at the past few years and evolution, e.g. In recent years, in disability and in older citizens' affairs, there have been significant increases, both in percent and in billions. I think there's been some completely new hills in Iceland history, how well it's been going to make up for the good things. But this is what I need to get straight, where I'm going in the minority opinion of disability, and then again the huge addition to the birthworm.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u53	A respectable president. I don't know exactly how it works in the modifications, but the figures are like this: the growth of birthworm for 12 months is 5,130 million, the alien language 39, U.S.A. 73, overrated to the head of state taxation 43.2. Then there are 22, 22, 11, 11, 11, 11, and 22 million. The increase due to a greater number of genders in a national registry is 2.5 million, a reduction of 7.6, a medical facility 800, a Lands Hospital of 1,600, medical transportation 50, OPCAT 4, and a general hold on the Nationalland Guard of 100. I guess that'll add up. It's probably that way because it's in the same topic field. A senator sees additional delinquency and obstetrication as well as the like. I just sent my modifications into document processing with the dissociation I was trying to read, and that's how it comes. There are not 13 billion prolongations of birthworm, that is 5.1 billion or so.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u54	Mr. President. I recommend the Central Party's Committee on bill for budgets for 2019, a smaller portion of the budget board. Economics are on the rise. National projections estimate that inflation is increasing with omission, which is already under way, and we can see. The recent expansion of the Federal Bank emphasizes concern about increasing inflation. The labour agreements of much of the labour market are running out at the end of the year and the beginning of the next year, and there is therefore a strong uncertainty about the development of pay next year. Salaries beyond the premiums of budgets weigh very heavily on the state's Pension bonds. It is expected that unemployment will continue to increase throughout the forecasting period with less tension in the national industry. The budget bill is that my brain knows too much charge. The progress has not been properly prepared for the future. If the premise is not clear, what government resources are going to do is. A show could have been more successful in the state of times. It is unrealistic for governments to trust that there is still much economic growth. There is no evidence that the recent fall in the crescent gang is reversible. The reduction is expected to affect the success of government funds, as we know. The factors I've mentioned here strongly suggest that there may be an extension of 1% of the land production, i.e. 28.9 billion, if not enough. The remainder is too small, compared to the weight of income stocks and the rest of the final economy. Mobility ends, but it seems that the government is not sufficiently aware of this. Clearly, the rate of growth is slowing down rapidly. The less economic growth reduces the income of the state's funds. If economic growth is less than expected, the removal of the state's funds could easily turn to a corner. You can see why. It is important to keep in mind that the increase in budget increase from bill to bill and the extra charge from budget to bill is, unfortunately, a rule rather than an exception. For 22 years, expenses have increased from bill to bill. Thus, expenses are likely to be considerably higher than placed in the bill. Because the bow is very excited about government expenses, there is little room to change income resources and to sharpen income balance roles directly to taxes. Government expenditures will increase by 55.8 billion in 2019, about 1 billion per week, according to the bill. Government expenditures per Iceland has never been higher, measured on solid prices, and are publicised to one of the most developed countries. Out of 100 bucks. which will exist in the economy is a hundred and thirty-eight. Officially and clearly, the problems of public business are lacking in priorities rather than on funding. It's coming even. ... ina review of the Association of Professional Affairs on the budget bill. The bill is interesting, but a short chapter on page 20. Ninety-nine, which bears the heading: Economic uncertainty issues. That's where even the two of them come from. up to 40% of the 400 largest businesses in the country believe that employment conditions will get worse within the next six months, but only 7% believe that they will be better. Information on the staff has already begun. Despite warnings from different directions, the State Department and the government spending are still being added to the highest levels. So, according to the financial bill, there's no way to see that there's any concern for the future, it's at least with limited doses. Travel service has become our most important profession and represents less than 42% of the country's export price. Clearly, then, this article would have a profound bearing on national affairs. Already the arrival of foreign tourists has diminished. It is therefore essential that there be a pattern analysis of its effect in the event of a strong contraction. Hence, there is no priority, and it must be considered a significant part of the government's financial administration, especially in view of the scope of the travel service at the State's income - income level. The budget bill assumes that the state's debt and interest payments will continue to decline. It is a pleasure to see the success that has been achieved in these matters, and many external factors have made significant difference in this regard. The share of gross domestic product is expected to be 31% at the end of the next year, with a debt ratio of up to 86% of GDP in 2011. Kingdom funds, however, are still very high, although they have reduced their debt. According to the budget bill, it will be estimated to be about 40 billion dollars. next year, a reduction of 26 billion from 2011. In terms of my third section, the government shows unnecessary irresponsibility by avoiding its objectives in a financial programme to put up with budgets by 1%. As part 3 shows, budgets should be in accordance with financial schemes, the government should respond at the latest to the 3rd. to meet our own laws and goals. The financial and economic secretary's letter to the financier, dated October 13th, shows that the bill was updated on the basis of data submitted since the protocol was completed in June. This should be the most important factor in the final income accounting of 2017, etc. In this regard it should be noted that the newly published government account for 2017 is published without the opinion of the State Accounting. Part 3 considers it sobering for the Council to think that it is not possible for the Council to give a decision and what the consequences may be. It must be a requirement for a government bill to be made so that it can be signed without a warning, since it makes clear to all the government funds and their arrangements. Everything else must be unacceptable. Criticism is that the government is going to finance change proposals for the budgetary bill because of changes in economic forecasts, as well as changes made by the government in the 2nd Environment. by carbon dioxide waste means of at least 4 billion jar. Section 3 seems to indicate that in the future the government will need to buy these receipts back at a much higher price, since it seems unlikely that Iceland will be able to stay within its releases. Part 3 is the opinion that the government needs to back up that this arrangement is reasonable for the future before any financial gain comes back from it. Mr. President. Iceland is a state of high taxes on a global scale. The number of tax increases in previous years is largely unmoved. A priority should be to retract the tax increases taken after the collapse of the bank. Last year, funding taxes were raised, while promising to reimburse the tax. There's no mention of such a reexamination in the budget bill. When the capital tax was taken up, the low tax rate was short with a broad tax factor. The tax stock is still wide, but the tax rate has doubled. The middle class stresss that as government debt declines rapidly, there is room to consider reducing taxes on people and businesses in the country, not increasing the nation's affairs, as the government is particularly interested in. I'm going to go back next to the importance of paying down insurance. Icelandic tax returns are high in international comparison and second in the north, behind Norway. In an effort to close the budget, companies were raised after the 2008 financial collapse. However, many of these changes have been established since then. The government's failure to cut down the insurance fee has been severe, but it will result in 14.4% of the government's income market next year. A third of my things express disappointment that the budget does not provide more insurance reduction than it does. High insurance costs are worst for companies where pay and pay-or-remuneration are largely expensive. High insurance costs undermine the competitiveness of these companies. The improved competitiveness of Iceland is very important, and especially now the economy is slowing down rapidly. In the government covenant, the reduction in insurance costs is particularly stressed, but it is not enough. About that, there is also a difference between the two of us. The industrial organization concluded. Despite the abolition of the insurance bill by 0.25%, it is calculated that the insurance bill accounts for over 100 billion dollars. The next year, a trust fund that is more than it is this year. The explanation is that salary has gone up. So the government gets more in the box, despite the reduction. As we know, the insurance bill is a special price paid by the remunerationpayers, i.e. Enterprises, should be paid by the sum of their entire salary. In recent years, the competition of international enterprises towards foreign rivals has deteriorated because of domestic costs measured in foreign currency. This trend is now evident in the less valuable production of exports and enterprises on the national markets that compete with foreign companies. For the 2008 economic collapse, the bail bill was 5.34%, but it was promoted to 8.655% following it. The increase was thought of as a temporary operation to cover a huge increase in expenses due to sudden unemployment. The premise for the rise and the evidence that was then used to raise the price back then no longer applies because unemployment has been very low for a long time, but September 1, 2000. it was only 2.3%. Iceland's Common Association has supported the importance of returning an increase in insurance. So it is a wonder that governments have been reluctant to cut down their insurance fees. The fact is, however, that the tax paid has increasingly been used to finance other financial expenses. For the decline to serve the aim of promoting a workforce balance and that next year's pay increases will be less effective in inflation, it should be much more than 0.25%. The pay is calculated as a percentage of the salary paid by the company to its employees. The more dollars the company pays in pay, the more money it will be paid in terms of insurance. The higher the insurance bill, the more expensive the employee is for his company. The higher the percentage, the less pay, the less the company can live up to. The price reduces the ability of an enterprise to invest and create jobs. Therefore, private companies' growth potentials are blocked by high insurance costs. The central category conveys the change proposal to the bill that the loyalty rate reduces by 0.5% next year instead of 0.25%, as the bill puts it. When the adjustment is made, the pay will fall from 6.85% to 6.35%. It is reasonable to assume that these taxes will be no greater than they were before a collapse when the level of employment was comparable to ours. The government's budget estimates are that the pay will be restored in 2020, with another 0.25%. In spite of this, a total of percentages will still be missing that the insurance bill will be the same proportion of corporate pay as it was for the financial breakdown. The bill says that taking effect on the reduction of the insurance bill by 0.25% next year is negative to the state budget of about 4 billion dollars. So some people might conclude that a decrease of 0.5% would mean a decrease in income for a trust fund of 8 billion dollars. It is not because the decrease makes it easier for companies to hire new employees and to do better with the existing ones, which, in turn, increases tax revenues in the state's funds. Thus, the benefits of a careful reduction of the budget are great, and especially when difficult speech is yet to come. I'm going to go to the carbon tax next and to what the Central Party thinks isn't equal to the population in a fair way. It's a new tax in Iceland. The bill shows that in 2019 C.E., income of carbon is estimated to be 5.9 billion. The price has already increased by 50% in a very short time, since 2017. The taxes are not an earmark of direct action on climates, and only part of them flows there. In terms of less than 3 parts, the increase in pay is entirely excessive. An even further increase, 10%, next year is expected to result in 550 million state funds. K. in income, including side effects on value taxes. At this time, the carbon price will be about 11 k. Every litre of gasoline and 12.6 taps. on diesel. They increase the costs of fuel use especially in the country. It may be reasoned that by using the carbon bill, localisations are taxing more than others, since the electric accelerator is much easier in the capital area than in the region where infrastructures are much higher in the capital area. Nevertheless, electric car owners have complained that the infrastructure for electrical vehicles is not sufficiently satisfactory in the capital, much less in the country. The internal structure is simply too far off. In addition, inhabitants of the country use a much larger amount of vehicles driven by fossil fuels, drive more because of their distance, and thus buy more fuel. It is normal that as a result of the rise in carbon taxes, the charges and taxes on environmental activity are reduced if the objective is to reduce pollution. Not so, though. The main objective of carbon costs is to encourage both homes and businesses to reduce emissions by switching to cleaner energy. First, it is by no means possible for anyone to switch to an electric vehicle, and second, the rest of the vehicle is still suitable in the country. First, it draws near to the limit of the automobiles and the number of loading stations. Thus, the contribution of carbon is different to the population of the capital and to the inhabitants of the region. So there is, in fact, a difference in currency between these groups. Thus, the tax suffers the relatively worst in terms of the income and the inhabitants of the country. Energy exchange encouragement is a good price price, but it has to be in line with reality. Energy exchanges for fishing companies, industry, and employment equipment are not yet practical. The carbon tax has a direct economic effect on the economy. Without any counterweight measures, the tax weakens the economy and reduces the competitiveness of an enterprise. Ideas are noble, but governments must give careful consideration to the purpose, basis, and goal of the tax system, especially whom they are taxing and whom they are not. The aim of the expenditure is to reduce emissions without diluting the competitiveness of work life and should be the same in this country. Thus, in other countries other taxes have been declined against the price or were given by other taxes. Iceland is, for example. One State in Europe where the fishing fleet has no access or is fortified with fuel taxes. This will further reduce competitiveness. Iceland's employment agency has researched domestic expenses, and it shows that fuel use is somewhat larger in rural areas. The difference reflects the fact that the population of the country has to travel more long distances. The financial and economic minister has acknowledged the greater impact of carbon costs on rural population. This is shown in the reply of a secretary to a request from the Council recently. Thus, in fact, carbon costs are a classic tax increase for people and companies where taxation comes down in the country. So that new tax burden is not leveled on the population in a fair way. In addition, the Environment Minister has said that the exact results of the cost measured in less emissions are difficult to assess. This was shown in the reply of a minister to a inquiry at the General Assembly. No initiatives are being proclaimed on the bills related to the budget that meet the country's settlements for the price. In addition, it is not apparent that environmental activity will not be involved or that other taxes will be reduced to counterweight. Changes in carbon charge are tax increases, dressed in green tax. It would be reasonable, then, to reduce the cost of other environmental factors. We must also look to other countries in that regard. In Denmark, the government did so. too soon when they raised taxes on the environmental issues of companies. In Norway, carbon costs are lower than Iceland and, in part, reimburse certain conditions. The level of carbon costs must not increase the cost of Icelandic enterprises beyond that of foreign competitors. This reduces competitiveness, reduces the share of the Icelandic enterprises and thereby the means to invest. At the same time, the likelihood that the price will be met reduces the likelihood that the cost will be met. What further reduces competitiveness is that non-employment tax obligations in this country are the exception of the carbon tax. Thus, foreign ships that take oil in this country do not have to pay the price, but in some cases they are fishing in the same way that they do. Neither a fishing ship, a cruise ship, nor a cruise ship pay carbon charge for fuel consumption here on the land, nor any carbon tax is paid by local air fuel in the state's funds. Although technological development is rapid in this sector, larger vehicles, workers, and some industrial instruments are not available to use renewable energy. It belongs, for example. We're in the ground sector and agriculture. Thus, energy exchange is not yet practical, especially for industry and employment equipment that use so - called colored oil. The possibilities of such parties for energy exchange are negligible. The amount of carbon is a tax that variously affects the sector's sector, and it is reasonable that the overall policy in the case should be taken before continuing. Thus, the central category suggests that an increase in carbon pay in the 10% budget will not be carried out and there will also be a 50% rise in the rate of pay dropped from 2017 until the total policy for how Iceland will use carbon expenditures in the battle of climate change without the loss of the land range or competitiveness of industry and will reduce its efficiency in the economy. The state's budget for this is estimated to be 2.3 billion, but to meet it, the bank's own money will be reduced in the form of interest to the state's funds. The reduction in carbon dioxide costs will reduce inflation pressure with a reduction in fuel price. Next, I will initiate a chapter of the Committee opinion about the special savings and the resources in force, the payment of mortgages on that subject, and the purchase of apartments. Paying down debt is an effective means of detriment and of having governments at any given time trying to create situations that encourage apartment owners to pay off debts at the best. By paying on an apartment loan with additional pension savings, the individual earns taxes and counterpayers, as well as reduces the overall interest rates and compensations. This has been an important tool that includes the tax-free provision of special savings to the apartment purchases and the head seat of the housing bar. Information from the Pension Funds has made significant use of this option. According to government taxpayer's records, over 6,500 people have applied for this process of buying at their first apartment. In October it was. was borrowed from nearly 3,000 people, and in the same month 408 applications were received. As I mentioned, that's why it's used considerably. In terms of domestic purchases, those who have taken advantage of this resource have been able to obtain special tax-free money for an apartment. The head position of the housing bar has been permitted to pay up to 4% of the recruiter's contributions and 2% of the payer's contribution, at a maximum of 500,000 bucks. A year for an individual and 750,000 a year. each year for married couples, or for others who qualify for a similar taxation. In recent years the prices of property in this country have gone up substantially. The supply of other apartments is by no means demand. Most underlying factors thus indicate that the value of real estate in the highest places does not fall quickly. In spite of this, the government has decided to drop authority on the use of property savings to the expense and subsidies of apartment loans. This is shown in the bill on page 18. 114 and will take effect in the middle of the year 2019 or next year. Mr. President. The Central Party believes that this is an unwise arrangement to discuss with the government. In addition, the collection of special property savings will be greatly reduced rather than the possibility of increasing the sources of this savings. The task force appointed by the prime minister in June 2017 to review the role of pension funds in the building of employment life was simply stressing increasing the scope of special property and housing savings. The group returned a more difficult report at the beginning of this year. The service group suggests that the minimum pay in pension money will be raised from 12% of pay to 15.5%, that governments look into agreement with stakeholders for a change of law in order to provide additional permission for extra pensional savings as well as that funds partners can include 3.5% of the 15.5% of the minimum legal fees in their private interest or housing savings at their choice. In addition, loyalty becomes the flexibility of funds partners in order to use their special savings to cover mortgages and/or pay for an apartment. Calculations have shown that individuals who place 15.5% of their income in the pension fund all their lifetimes will accumulate relatively successful pensions. With additional pensions, pension can become more than a job. Thus, the staff suggests that governments look at additional sources of special savings and use the pay - related pension money to provide housing supplies. The decision of the government to cut down the overall resources on the assessment by the centres of property savings, to buy an apartment, or to pay off mortgages, on the contrary to the suggestions of the task force, is a real disappointment. Therefore, the Central Party suggests that the provision of the EU budget is to be implemented indefinitely when the directive is to expire in my next year. Mr. President. Next time, I'm going to move on to housing and development. The government boasts that the total housing support is 25.5 billion. This support is largely at the demand side of the apartment market, e.g. 9.6 billion interest and housing improvements. It cannot be seen that the government is dealing with the housing problems here with practical solutions. The experience in recent years clearly shows that this method is not successful. Support to demand side increases prices and encourages fluctuations. There is a need for extra housing. This, in turn, results in a decrease in housing prices. Tremendous increases in shelter prices in recent years are mainly due to lack of housing. A small supply means a higher price. Though the government puts more money on interest, there is no increase in market market markets. It must take action against the root of the problem, a lack of open housing. Plenty of housing is a lower price. Governments are expected to take measures to reduce construction costs. The reductions in construction costs produce additional incentives for building. As a result, the supply increases and prices begin to decline. Sadly, the planning is far too hovered in that sector. Although the simple design of the building industry needs to be increased, complex regulations and requirements increase the time and cost of living in the country's construction, as well as the incomprehensible nature of the language environment. The government needs to support the rural areas in the process. The period of construction must be shortened, e.g. by using an amulet to a greater degree, from wood or concrete, where it is rapid and simple. The bill shows that interest improvements are to be increased by 13% between years and 3.4 billion in this category. Yet, there is a modest amount of history. The huge increase in housing prices over the past few years has eaten up the interest improvements. One of the primary components of growth growth is an increase in value of property. Other factors also have an effect, such as increase in pay and money income. Since 2010, interest improvements have dropped by more than 8 billion. and the families entitled to them dropped by 30,000. So a lot of people have been replaced. So there is no real treasure flow in this campaign of improvement. At the same time, food supplies to landlords have dropped to a great extent as the tax on homeowners have gone up considerably. What's important about this is the limit of limits, i.e. when growth improvements begin to decline. In no way have growth reforms and degradation limits been correlated with prices. In addition, peak interest rates have remained almost the same since 2011. In 2009, 69% of the single property owners received interest, and in 2017 that number was down to 28%. As a result, the cut off-off marks of growth reforms must be adjusted. You can't see there's a place in the bill so that you don't have a student. Growth reform guidelines remain stable. The terms of interest rates and peak growth improvements increase by 5% and net share by 10% from current year. If the rules cannot be changed, this foretold increase in growth is meaningless. The growing reform system as it is today does not serve its purpose. Adding money to such a system is a bad provision. The growing reform system today does not expect higher housing prices and raise interest costs. Such a system is, in fact, useless, especially in the conditions in which the housing market in this country has been in recent years, Iceland has the largest increase in global housing prices, 70% in the last five years. The panorama fund points out that growth improvements can be achieved to contribute to the national security in view of the current situation. It is evident, therefore, that this is not the case with the State's increased spending. It may be reasoned that the results may even get worse while housing availability is not increasing. Increase in growth may thus increase the value of housing. The central category believes that there will be an overall review of the growth reform system, which demonstrates clearly the negative development that has taken place in recent years. Today's growth reform system tends to increase the interest rate, which involves subsidies of capital costs. In addition, it is known that reforms encourage debt. Careful consideration should be given to the effectiveness of falling from the system in the present image and in other ways to reduce tax burden. The current system supports the demand side of the housing market and is designed to raise the value of real estate. Expansion and the arrangements made by the government do not increase the number of apartments on the market, which we clearly see here on the country, as I mentioned earlier. It is necessary and more specific to support the forward side. Recent Swedish and American studies have shown that by supporting the forward side, i.e. having the incentive to increase the number of buildings, would reduce housing prices, the number of apartment owners, and the debt of tenants would be reduced. If this route were to take place in a country considered by the Central Party to be a good reason to look at it, the current growth reform system would be reduced. It's a lot to work on new routes when it comes to housing, since our present system does not solve the big housing problem in Iceland. The government must take initiative in housing and bring new solutions. This is one of the biggest solutions we are facing. Sadly, the government has little to do with the important issue. It does not reveal any new ideas or solutions; it preserves only growth reform systems that maintain the problem. Mr. President. I'm just gonna step aside to my character discounts and child benefits. In recent years, expenses for child reform have been greatly reduced. There is therefore plenty of room to raise base height without increasing the percentage of decrease. The support of children's families has diminished in recent years, and children's benefits have been lost. The bill expects an increase in personality beat and child improvement. However, it must be said, as it is, that it is by no means the cup implied. Over the past few years, thousands of Icelanders have not been eligible for child support or interest support because restrictions and downlinks have been taking place for years. The bill accounts for a 1.6 billion rise in child improvement, about 16%. In the face of increasing child - rearing rates, and in view of experience, we are expected to get into the same environment soon, despite an increase. A question is, Should a child's ability to consider what is best for him? Whether an increase in personality discount could be of even greater benefit and should be more targeted. Is it worthy of research? Next time, I'm going to step in on older people's affairs. It is undeniably true that the terms of the elderly who have least of their hands are in no harmony with the general standard of living in the country. The ones with no money but the pensions of social security are the worst. Pension levels have steadily subsidized. According to the bill on basic insurance pensions, only increasing 3.4% next year. In the 69th. law on social security says that improvement should take into account pay development, although improvements will never increase less than the prices of the index price. The government covenant says that the position of those who are walking in their way needs to be made firm. These include older citizens who have limited or no rights from pensions and who do not engage in paid jobs. In such cases, most people have to rely solely on the pension of social security and are many of them in a public rented or even in debt. This includes those who have not earned full social security rights for living abroad, e.g. immigrants. In the spring months, the Department of Social Affairs appointed a group of members to consider the interest of older ones in order to gain a better perspective on the different circumstances in which older citizens live and to offer suggestions on how to improve their situation. The group has not yet returned their suggestions, but they were to be returned on November 1. and, of course, should have yielded earlier, so the suggestions for the financial process could be discussed. The older citizen's money took the initiative that the staff were appointed. The Society has repeatedly directed the government on the need to correct pensions. The company of older citizens is taking their minds to represent the local community. Since 2010, pay has increased more than 11% more than pensions. So the pension should be less than 267,000 bucks. every month instead of 239,500 k. for tax. The difference is 27,000 K. That amount is certainly remembered by those who spend a month and by those who have little time between hands. On the other hand, all of us realize that this amount is not enough for forward. The number of older citizens who are concerned about their financial situation is more than 30%. It's coming even. magazines in a survey made two years ago by Reykjavíkurburg, the Ministry of Health and the older citizens' National Association. Recently, at a meeting of the budget committee, the Fégagi of older citizens gave careful suggestions on how to improve the prospects of the worst set up in that group. For those suggestions, thanks. They are practical, and they want a third-mind to encourage the government to respond to the suggestions and take them seriously. According to OECD figures, there is a lower percentage of national production and wages in Iceland for the payment of pension than in countries such as Britain, the Netherlands, Denmark, and Sweden. Icelanders generally go to pensions later than the citizens of other countries, and there is a much greater and longer rate of employment involved in Iceland than in the rest of the countries. In this country, there is a 50% employment program, which includes only a 20% sector in Sweden, which is the same age group. Comparison with the above countries shows that Iceland differs from an active pension age. Icelanders usually take a pension one to two years after a public pension date is reached, but in the other four countries, people usually go to pension some time before the official age is reached. Thus, Icelanders usually spend far less years than usual in other countries. Thus, payment from both parts of the pension system usually begins in the country later. The average country's age is lower, so the public system's pension load is still very low in comparison. This emphasizes that governments have and are to take steps to treat older citizens well. This is the generation that we most owe to today's general well - being, a generation that broke out in poverty with hard work and hard work, a generation that is only asking for justice and having the privilege of living in decent terms. Studies in older citizens have shown that nearly everyone, or 97%, feels that it would be easier for those who are in pensions to be more active at the job market. The older citizens' employment program brings them greater activity in the community. Increased activity contributes to the well - being and satisfaction of life and the more active elderly, the more joyful life - styles they experience. The government must be aware of this. They must be aware of the status, expectations, and attitudes of the elderly when it comes to job participation and its positive effects on the well - being of older citizens. Older citizens are more physically active today than ever before, people can expect to live longer, and therefore they need to be in touch with the elderly so that they remain active in society and remain independent for as long as possible. Those interested and able to work longer should have further opportunities with greater flexibility on the retirement process and on the job after start of pension. Older staff often have a lot of knowledge and experience that can be useful in many work areas and that is both useful for those who want to remain in the workforce as well as for the rest of the community. Research has shown that association can bring great satisfaction to older people. The central category has emphasized the importance of removing income benefits from senior remuneration and moving the category to change proposals for budgetary support that the income of older citizens does not interfere with pension pay. A few years ago, the research site of the store investigated its effect on government funds if senior citizens were to be increased and if the amount of age-related benefits were not affected by the person's pay. The conclusion is that a government fund will profit from further tax returns. If income support of an older citizen's compensation was taken, it would encourage them to reenter the labour market on an increased scale. There is a lack of workforce in this country, such as in trading and services, and it has had to be brought into large numbers of foreign workers. Many of these work may be performed by older citizens. Older citizens are to be able to participate in a workforce individually without having to take on the loss of pensions. It improves their quality of life and provides national benefits. Next, I'm going to intervene in the affairs of the disabled and the new laws on the user - controlled type of personal assistance. In the spring months, the General agreed to serve with disabled people with long - term needs, law No. 38/2018. Laws allow, in fact, the type of so-called MPA agreements, contracts for the user-controlled personal assistance for disabled persons. The law involves a great act of justice for the disabled. By making a contract of user-controlled personal assistance, the user receives payment instead of services. The user will personally handle the job, decide what he wants to do, and use his assistants. As of October 1 you could apply for NAPA services. The government pays 25% with each contract, while the companies pay 75%. This is an expensive resource. The service is changing from establishment to individual service. In some cases, it takes up to four or five employees to care for this new arrangement for one person. The law has established the right of the disabled to obtain this service at all costs. Of course, that is a great act of justice, but there must be money to render the ministry. The rural population also needs to keep out the measures they had previously used and used, such as cohesives, because the NPA individual has the right to return, e.g. In a home, he wishes it. This is all at the expense of rural society, a significant increase in government services, but the cost is 3/4. It seems to be a rule rather than an exception that enough money from the State does not follow up with the moving assignments from a country to the countryside. On page 18. The bill 383 shows that a contribution to the user - controlled personal assistance is only 70 billion. K. next year. It is not yet clear how many contracts to make and at any time or at any time in the financial affairs of the rural community. The protocol to explain the implementation is not yet completed at the Ministry. Thus, rural society has not been able to establish its rules. The rural population has expressed concern about the high cost of applying this new form of service and has requested that the law's execution be postponed. Clearly, the contribution of the State to the year 2019 is by no means at all. A smaller increase in disability in the bill presented here is 1,100 million. K. ... andisa real surprise. The chairman of the financier has stated that the change is due to the planned changes in social security in order to improve the quality of disability later than expected. It does not show what caused delay in the induction of a new food supply system, and it is very unfortunate that this work cannot be completed on the part of the government and changes would be established for the years so that the increase would fully be fully implemented in the new year. This community group that is reminded of not having to wait for their release in this way because of the poor task management of social security to complete important work on a new food and forwarding system. The differences within the government on this matter are not to be taken out of the way for micro-terrestrials to be taken. ▪ Government should not ask poor people in Iceland to wait for justice. These are familiar words; those are the words of Prime Minister Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, at the General of September, then a member of the administrative body. Mr. President. The Central Party proposes a change in the bill in order that, due to the reduction in donations to poverty, a sum of 1.1 billion dollars per cent, as stated in the budget bill, will be postponed at the new production of Husseður. I don't remember that amount 800 million. At a point, and 300 million. K. will be in the form of interest from the state's banks. In total, this will be 1,100 million, and it will be used to pay microspheres from time to time next year as planned. Next, I'm going to go to a chapter in the heading entitled "Report the Kingdom Ministry as Never Before. " The financial bill gives evidence that the government's list of projects is not the top priority. There goes the leading member of the Independence Party, which has regularly cried out loud for elections: Drive away. Then, when the pack reaches power, the stall continues to grow. ▪ We need to clean up our financial affairs and reduce the state's perspective, as the secretary of finance said in 2010. A minister is now offering a financial bill that is still being added to the State Department. There is no intention of saving the government by uniting or destroying government agencies. A few years ago, the independent party had much to do with the government's banking business. ▪ Perfectly unnecessary, the members of Congress said. The Senator went so far as to criticize him that he maligned the Agency and that putting it down was a national agreement. Well, eight years later, the Independence Party still lives in the Bank Office, bringing her 60 million on the budget bill for 2019. In addition, the government itself, with all its helpers and 636 million each year, has met an increase of some 175 million each year. The UN Committee is a fixed segment, as is usual on budget, with 114 million receiving this government slot next year, and it has been living for 20 years. Another year, we get 30 million climates to hold meetings, and so on. The cost of division by the Ministry of Health for 2 Ministry, Health Ministry and Department of Social Affairs is less than 212 billion. K. This is indicated by a further increase in the Ministry to 345 million. K. Increase the staff by seven. It does not show that this arrangement is reasonable or that it yields benefits to the State. In addition, it may be asked, " Would the cost have not been better spent by the clients of the Ministry of Health? ' It was evidently found that the interests of many afflicted citizens would have benefited them if money had been spent directly in their behalf. It may refer to microbubbles and a group of older citizens who are expected to live under the Ministry's forward guidelines. An increase to the Ministry of State accounts for between 1.7 billion years, 11.7%. An increase to a level of nearly 0.5 billion per year, of which 160 million are involved in visas in India and in the United States. A further increase of 182 billion is seen in the perfusion proposed by the largest part. K. The rise in defense is now over 300 million, of which 50 million are engaged in military exercises. Of course, it is very interesting under the seat of the left green in the government. There's a budget up to 50 million on the bill. K. for the prehumanity of Iceland in the North Pole. It may be asked if the Ministry can't be better used in the prefect and whether a head needs special funding on this matter. There are 836 million special funding for Schengen implementation showing that it is long time to consider the pros and cons of this system and cooperation for Iceland. Increase to Environment Ministry totals 2 billion and 55 million. K., corresponding to 11.8%. Then I saw in the redundant paper an even further increase of 182 million. The same can be said for the financial and economic sectors, it goes up by 2 billion and 37 million. K., which corresponds to 9.2%. Of these, there is an increase in the affairs of the State budget of 525 million. Then there was an extra reserve in a change of 153 billion. K. In recent years, there has been no great economy in the Council of Government. It is long time to attack the public system and reduce the public activity. In addition, it is unwise to add still to the Kingdom display, where it is difficult and painful to do so, it may be possible to unwind an expansion if the government's earners fail. Government priority needs to be better. Ideas about the unity of the FDA and the Federal Bank, for example, should include economic management. Interestingly, during the days when the united plans were presented, it was specifically noted that there was no way to reduce the number of employees. It's the wrong approach. Unions should include saving to taxpayers. In addition, the pay in the budget has increased largely over the past few years and is high in relation to the private sector. The increase in budgets beyond the general price increase is rule rather than exception. Thus, the government has constantly been more expensive to taxpayers. That's the way it is, for example. Increasing costs for state surveillance. The bill has little country support requirements. The Independence Party now known to represent the Ministry of Economics and Economics has the capacity to handle this situation, as he has so many sermons. Rather, he adds to the Kingdom display as never before. Mr. President. There are other things I'm going to come in on. I see my time is getting shorter. I would especially like to mention the agriculture, perhaps later in a talk about how uninterested the government is about the economy. We can see that in the changes made by most of the stocks, agrienvironment schemes or agricultural management have increased by 108 million. As a result, they are in almost a drawer of the Department of Employment and are very sad. I'm finally going to enter some more adjustment proposals proposed by the Central Party. In this regard, we offer extra funds to promote home service, home care, and health care of the elderly in order to meet the waiting lists among the elderly to get into a nursing home. The suggestion is that there are 200 million people to strengthen their communities to promote home - care services and home care for the elderly and 70 million to the national health care unit to increase the health supplies of the elderly. In addition, we have a suggestion to improve our effectiveness in the important work of OSI. The proposal goes on to make a special contribution to the U.S.A. up to 125 million. K. and 50 million to meet cutbacks for financial contributions to the cancer club. [[The president calls.]] In addition, we have an arrangement that I recommend to further the work of customs, which is in the transition form. [[The president calls.]] Then we have a final suggestion to fight social security, and it is put forward here on a change of the box. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] To say that, Mr. President, for the sake of time, I have to finish my case now, but I'll be in this discussion later.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u55	It is even more important to respect the time limit when an hour is spent.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u56	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A beautiful speech for Þórarinsson's son. He did so according to a 60 - minute talk over many things. Last year I'm gonna come in like a dog. A senator spent a small part of his talk in order to review and discussed his concern over the increase in business affairs. He made good comments about the Association of Businesses, including those of the United States. for expenses. This picture of the development of budgets can be developed in a number of ways, but 38 k. per 100 k. The economy is from the government. We're adding expenses to most of the causes. It also tells us that our priorities need further and more to the future. We are investing most in the well - being, education, and transportation. If we take on interest in this, we're at 80% of our expenses. I remind you there are 34 media and more than 100 lawsuits. I want to ask you why. Senator: With the continued progress of progress to the well - being of older citizens and micropows, these large groups will just increase their appearance. How's it going, man? A senator at the same time making arrangements for other cases? How can you tell? A senator of this priorities?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u57	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator and chairman of the budget board, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, for the counterar and use this opportunity and thank him for his excellent financial management, it's good to work with him on that committee. Although I am on my own and do not agree with everything that goes on there, the work was good on the committee. I'll take this opportunity and thank him for it. Of course, the priorities are very important, and I agree with them. A senator's concern is, of course, what the development of government spending is all about. For example, he mentioned disability. By 2030, if you continue to look at the cost of disability, you will reach 90 billion. This shows that there is a significant review of this system. The system is not going to be self-sustained if it continues to expand, if there's such a tremendous increase in expenses. But it turns out there are positive news, such as a reduction in the debt of state funds. The expenses are still high. About what I came on with the state's perspective, that's a big part of it, too. You ask yourself: " Does it need to change the Ministry of Health and just jump there to cost more than 200 million? That is a substantial amount, and you ask yourself, " What is the benefit? ' Is this necessary? I don't feel that my priorities are right because of what they're doing. A senator asked about her, just so I'll take one example. The amount of money would have, for example. You can use it, as I mentioned in my speech, to meet the Ministry's clients. [[The president calls.]] There are many things to take, and this is a big project, but it is necessary to act on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u58	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's answer is positive. Thank you. Similarly, a senator cooperates with each other in good shape. It's a legal committee. I'm going to draw out here on the increase in scope and government spending, that we're going to have to, looking for sustainable financial resources, to have more priorities for the future. We need to take what is called a reevaluation of expenses, this systematic analysis of expenses, a much closer way. It's right in front of us. I agree with what. A senator about that. Then I'll go somewhere else. Hv. A senator spoke of the carbon bill. It is distributed in different ways to jobs and to the country. Now we are promoting energy exchanges in transport, and there are, of course, positive developments in many ways and part of needed measures to deal with climate change and respect our parts in the Paris Convention. But how do you know? A senator envisions the inevitable changes that must be made at collections or tax collections in order to finance transportation? Hv. A senator spoke of a complete policy on that matter and that we might just fall from the carbon tax. But because of him. A senator speaks of a complete course, how does he picture all this collection? And how do we make transportation to the future?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u59	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. The funding of transport projects is a big deal that we are constantly dealing with. This is a real need for discussion because we see that more people are switching to electric cars, which are positive. We face the fact that the expenses are very low in these cars. There are no fees for transport in the country. A financial minister has established that this must be considered pooled. There is a policy to be molded if the electrical vehicle becomes the speed of walking that we see a significant decrease in income populations to take on road projects. Then there is a need to deal with such matters in a specific way. In terms of the collection of carbon bills, the changes in the Central Party's proposals are based on the fact that the sharp rise in the cost is not being accomplished because the current rate of pay is very variable on the citizens of this country. We can only see that this is far worse for those living in the country than for those living in the capital area, and I covered it in my speech. In addition, for e.g. The fleet, as I mentioned earlier, comes here to cruise ships, freighters, and others who do not pay the price. A foreign fishing vessel allowed to hunt here does not pay the price. [[The president calls.]] Resurrection between these sectors is a major factor in the loss of competition. A complete consideration of this material is essential.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u60	Mr. President. I measure to the people's opinion, my fourth opinion. The budget board. Government policies, as reflected in the budget bill, are now under way to make any improvements worthy of those who fail in Icelandic society. Social security payments are not sufficient for satisfactory forwards, the highest taxpayers are thought to be weighted, and the poor have not yet been released from their completed poverty trap, far too long. The survival efforts of those who have the will and ability to expand their work and thus improve their success are killed in a shrink with excessive taxation and impairment. Then the government has done nothing to reduce insurance insurance loans, despite the fact that data from it itself have confirmed that nearly 10,000 families have lost their home from collapse, not fewer than 30,000 people, as if here had experienced devastating disasters or wars. In that case, information from the government will confirm the harmful effects of the indexal staff on the domestic budget without allowing the government to act. In view of strong statements on the subject of the 2017 General election, a planned campaign in the interior is disappointing. Health policies have not been established, and many health institutions live in poor financial conditions. Alcohol and addiction disorders that now rage as an epidemic among the people call for a much stronger reaction on the part of the government than has been observed yet. A changed world calls for vigilance in law enforcement and border control and for good use in the institutions in which it is handled. Experience shows that the production of a budget bill can be improved so that it meets the current translucency criteria and effectiveness requirements. In the common opinion of the legal committee on this subject, there are helpful tips that a 4. These include comments to reduce the impact of different dues in the bill and other forms. A financial bill must include an analysis of the financial impact of the bill and its importance for the business and the home of the country. In addition, a thorough analysis of the impact of uncertainty has to be made with needed scenarios, as is customary in these products. In Comb 4. Government laws on government finance show that economic policies should be divided, including financial exchanges. A policy of magnitude and survival. According to a Senate resolution on financial policy for 2018/2022, the overall benefits of 2019 should be less than 1.2% of gross domestic product, including the A-part of the Reich Fund 1%. The contribution of the majority of the Committee has shown that the proportion does not reach that end. Although this is not the intention of making major issues larger, it is a so - called princely act that is necessary to be respected. The head of state funds needs to be in harmony with financial and financial policies. In terms of less than 4 less, the budgetary committee, which supervises the financial affairs of the state, is not appropriate to allow themselves to produce less waste than required by the law. The government is encouraged to make a new arrangement here before 2rd. is outside. There are questions about the credibility of the budget Committee in the process of financing if it has the right to its own resources. I'm happy to hear what you're doing. The chairman of the budget board to correct the issue, as indicated by my comments this morning. I'm just going to go to the reserve. A little less, in spring, comments on the budget committee's plans for financial and economic ministers to use the general reserve for the maintenance and maintenance of road projects, while a minister felt that the reserve could be protected for the work that was due him to pay a fine price. A fraction of 4 was not seen to be in harmony with the fund rules as specified in Article 24. a law on public financial matters and that his request sought the financial committee of the Government Accounting Committee on the matter, which, after the secretary's postponement of his above - mentioned plans, had to be taken into account. In the fall of this year, a legislation committee sought back to State Accounting following the encouragement of a minority of the 4th, but the State Accounting has not yet been received. In view of my section 4, it is shocking that Government Accounting has not been trusted to interpret the rules of the general reserve. This is of particular concern, since it is important that the budget should be used by the Management Board as the chief adviser in the financial affairs of the state. Then I will proceed to finance the sale of available releases that appeared to be severed. The legislatures at all the last levels. I'm going to be able to quote the financial and economic letter to the budget board from November 13, which says, in fact, by permission of the president: Then, in 2019 C.E., income of the sale of emissions from the Icelandic government will increase at an auction market. The income was estimated to be 1.3 billion. The budget bill, but now it's suggested the plan will be up to four billion dollars. Would it be the first income of such a sale? Iceland and Norway have been watching for the legal preparation of the sale and are well along. The priorities of the programme are that about 85% of Iceland's sources will be sold in 2019, at 15 euros (for every ton of carbon dioxide), and the increase from a previous rate of high prices in the market this year is clarified. The budget bill says on this subject on page 18. 118: ◯ It is expected that the government fund will receive its first income from the sales of releases in the ETS system at 1.3 billion dollars. and is sold at the beginning of 2019.How much more than 70% of Iceland's sources will be sold at the beginning of 2019.◯ My fourth part calls attention to the fact that during the presentation of this proposal to make changes in the government's proposal for the 2nd Environment. Advertising the financial and economic experts who came to the branch office as guests for further information from the Environment Ministry, where the Ministry of Economics did not know enough about the case and could therefore not explain it sufficiently. The information presented has not been provided, so the proposal has not been made for a material presentation on the legal committee, although it is part of the government's proposal in the budget. The proposal of the government is of interest, as the EEA Environment Parliament's Director of Environment in Harpa in October 2017 indicated that the emissions of greenhouse gas from Iceland's sources under the Kyoto Protocol would have to be purchased either by increasing sources or by significant reductions in emissions that appear to be impossible. It was observed by the director, by permission of the president: We are most likely going over the release clearances and commitments we have made during the so - called Kyoto 2 season in 2013-2020. We've got real-emission numbers for the 20133/4:2015. On the basis of these, we are expounding ourselves. Based on these figures, it appears that we either have to reduce emissions rapidly and significantly, which are really evil, or buy sources. According to the Agency's analysis, Iceland was expected to have to purchase additional sources of commitment, at a level of about 3.6 million tons of carbon dioxide for the overall period. In addition, Iceland would also find it difficult to live up to its commitment to the Paris Convention before the 20213/4030 period. More detailed information on this can be found in the opinion of section 4. In less than four, it is noted that the policy displayed in this budget violates the environmental authorities' aims and, therefore, the government suggesting that there is a need for permission to live up to Iceland's commitments to climate. It is important to note that, according to the multi-annual McKinsey report on economic challenges, annual economic growth needs to be improved substantially and, in terms of 4 less parts, it is not possible for the current technology to increase national production in this country without increasing emissions and hard to see that sources can be sold at present. There is little to suggest, however, that, based on recent environmental reports, it is too late to master the emissions of greenhouse gases in the world, but that the value of emissions will increase substantially in the coming period, while no assessment of the future value of commitment is provided in the Ministry's letter so that it is impossible for Congress to see whether sales now would seem to represent in itself a special fee. A fourth piece of memory is as visible as the budget used to produce 2.7 billion dollars has been used. additional revenues so that the government can avoid laying on new taxes or storing up expenses to close the budget. In addition, 1.3 billion can be added. Let's take over the release warrants in the bill or a total of 4 billion dollars. My fourth section feels that the government should show that the above - mentioned forms of sales provide where most indicated that selling the authority is unrealistic. A smaller section highlights the need for careful information on this matter before legal legislation is approved. Mr. President. According to the budget bill, social security benefits are to be increased by 3.4% a year. Export of this increase is not available. The review of the European Union's review of the financial bill on the process of improving social security benefits should be adopted, as there has been an excess of overall improvement in the number of disability-efficient donors that are affected, as indicated by the word, in terms of a dollar. In addition, maximum improvements have been made to the microenergy pensioners who are alone in excess of the overall improvement. This has led to an increase in the decline in income - less - income pensioners and the difference between pensions to those living alone and those with others. The first will be completed by an overall review of social security assessments and payment systems due to microenergy pensioners. This is essential to improving the quality of disability, the simple social security system to this group in a similar way that has been done to pensional patients, to add to the pension fund, and to increase emphasis on prevention, working ability, and rehabilitation. The Team of Stockholm has provided a bill with the support of three members of the Central Party and two Porta Parliaments that the payment of the pensioner is not restricted by professional income, compare with 23 gr. Act on social security. It has been observed repeatedly that there is a fine report that confirms that the delinquency of remuneration for employment does not involve additional expenses for the state's funds and that there may even be financial benefits to the operation. Mr. President. Next, I make a break for what is called a dollar. For the Council, there is a bill on the Change in Social Security Act, No. 100/2007, with subsequent changes. The group of people supports that bill, and among their transporters, there are two members of the party. The bill aims for a smaller reduction in disability and rehabilitation in favour of specific supplementation at 2 mg. Count 9. a law on social assistance is reduced by 100% because of all the earnings that pensioners may receive. Such a decrease in daily speech has been mentioned as a dollar to a dollar's decrease. Also low in pensions to the same extent, the total income of a pensioner remains unchanged despite the income from elsewhere. Then all other taxable revenues will cut the remuneration, including improvements in social, social, and foreign benefits. Such impairment has negative effects on the vitality of micro- and-repetition-replacement donors. This highly-created system of centenarians leads to the fact that many micro-energy and rehabilitation pension workers have little or no benefit in earning jobs if they are willing and able to do so. Such an arrangement overlooks the importance of the labor effort of disabled people. Disfellowshipping this system prompts the execution of those entitled to the special supplementation. In exchange for a dollar, income earners reduce the amount of living they earn. The same is true of other incomes, to form mother and father's pay, death rates and assessment of special property savings. Microenergy and rehabilitation pensioners with low incomes are therefore unable to improve their positions, even slightly with income from other sources. This arrangement, described in a report with the above - mentioned bill, can truly be called a poverty trap. The cutting off of the special remuneration of pensioners for support of other incomes was taken out of 2016 when the system of pension was simplified to a difference. I'm sure it's a fair thing to legalize the same kind of transition in the interests of micro-energy pensioners regardless of the work-management ideas and schemes. A group of people support the whole mind of an already noted bill for taking a cent against a dollar's decrease and stress that it succeeds. The average age of the nation is growing. Constantly more people fill a group of elderly people at the same time, and life expectancy increases. There is no demand for the services required to this community group. Obviously, where is it heading? The demand will continue to increase in terms of the anticipated increase in older people in society. Looking forward to the future, it is important to take steps to improve and construct, with a considerable increase in funds for this class. Clearly, planning a budget for the elderly's health is not sufficient for the budget of 2019 C.E. As a result, nursing homes have reason to criticize the obligatory disregard of the financial bill. This is pointed to in the reference to a Union member of the United States. The above indications should be taken into account. In the 25th Environment and Rehabilitation Service, it is impossible to read from the bill how large a donation is made to contribute to the individual institutions. This is very sad, since the financial situation of the individual institutions differs. It is known that e.g. that many nursing homes of the elderly live under financial circumstances and are driven with a tilt. Some have been working under such conditions for many years. A review by the U.S. National Association says, with permission from the President: Then it is impossible to understand the number of spaces, or days, that are involved in the development of the aging plants and day - to - day expenses. Therefore, it is difficult to determine whether there is an adequate increase in nursing weight and how contributions are made to the individual institutions. The people feel strongly that these will be added to a future budget, so that financial contributions will be made up of the individual institutions in certain areas of matter. The Treaty Treated by the Government of Independence Class, Front Class, and Left Greens contains the following paragraph on the Health Care Department of the Elderly, on permission of the president: A nursing card adds stress to the hospitals and reduces the quality of life of the elderly. There is evidence that the need for building is significant in the next five years. There will be a major building up and will be published in the government financial program. Part of a planned national fund could be used for this assignment. Other services, such as home nursing, daily training, and rehabilitation, will also be emphasized. Despite these beautiful promises of government classes, the fact is that the financial status of nursing homes in this country is very serious. The budget has not been met with a nursing home contract signed for 2016 until the end of this year. This agreement was to be set aside a turning point as the first overall agreement because of the services of nursing homes. It involves an arrangement that was to replace another arrangement, where the State paid one - sided daily expenses for nursing homes. Now that there is just more than a month left of the time of this contract, it is a real disappointment to learn that the government has not lived with it. He does not have a better support for the nursing homes. They have lived in cut - down operations, and it still stands to cut down the same knee by planning to operate in nursing homes next year, 2020, and 2021. It is not proper to cut on budgets for nursing, for lack of them simply leads to longer hospital stays with the high and rising costs it brings. This trend must be reversed. A new or extended service contract must be made for nursing homes instead of that which runs out at the end of the year and ensures that they will receive sufficient funds for the future. One day's expenses will have to be raised, so they're under operation. A group of people want to protect the interests of the elderly and to ensure that their well - being is fully maintained. During the current assembly, members of the Party, as well as all four members of the Parliament and three members of the Central Party, have proposed a proposal for a change in the law of the elderly with the goal of completing the goal he was set up to carry out, i.e. To stand for buildings in nursing homes and to support such workers. The objective of this change is to ensure that the funds of the elderly will be spent on the construction of service centres and day - to - day calendars and institutions for the elderly. It will also be used to cover the costs of needed changes and improvements in the facilities used for the services for the elderly, as laid down in the Law. If the bill falls to the legal level, the provisional terms VII in the law can be passed on to cover the expenses of nursing staff for the elderly, as it says. It is contrary to the role of the elderly'management fund that money is used from them as a nurse. On it's even Pointed to the National Association of Iceland with the budget bill. When it comes to an important language, a matter of disability, the financial system is a cause of great disappointment. One of the primary objectives of the topic field is the financial programme for 2019-2203 to all services and support, including improvements and payments, that contribute to the ability of people with impaired ability to live their own lives, as it says. The same financial programme estimates that the rise in social security will be only 3.13/4,3% for the next five years. It is reasonable to ask, " How can people with impaired skills lead to independent, decent life? ' Thus, the gap between micro-energy pensioners and other community groups will continue to increase if the pensions of social security are to be increased only a few percent annually, while low percentages of low levels yield low figures. According to the National Institute of Micronesia, the European Union has noted that the largest number of cases involving disabled people and microenergy pensioners [see] starving and although governments may be talking freely about the increase in money gains in disability and that considerable financial resources have been added to cases of disabled persons and desperate people still lack much to be able to live with dignity in modern society. There is still much work to be done, Mr. President, on the urgent community project to ensure society without discrimination, a society where disabled and long - suffering people have the right to life just as much as others. There must be a significant increase in capital, and in the long run. As a result of paying attention to the health system, the budget of 2018 was set down to 500 million. K. contribution to meeting the costs of new dental services contracts with micro-elderly and sensibilities. However, the budget was not raised since 2014. The contract was expected to be valid in the middle of the year, but the cost of meeting it would be about 1 billion. every year. A new contract went into effect on September 1, 2018. A group of people pointed out in their minority wing of budget 2018 that the project had been seriously offended, based on the reference bill of health insurance, which remained virtually unchanged at the same time as dental records had increased by 1501.7/200%. Now it's clear that reimbursement does not reach 75% of the contract fee, it's only 50%. That is why they need a billion dollars a year to make up the contract. It should be taken into account, as stated in its review, that there is no clear evidence of a further rise in the Convention on dental services in budget 2019 compared to previous programmes. Pays to the jury are increasing by 500 million. A.J., but it would've had to be up 800 million. K. This year, with a full budget of September 1st. A group of people believe that the use of prescription - related taxes and relief tools for the disabled and the elderly should be taken care of. A group of people agree with the proposal of the Microcracy to continue working on the material induction of the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people in a consistent manner. A review of this point states, by permission of the president: The result is that all human rights and basic freedoms will be fully realized for all disabled people without any form of discrimination due to disability. It is worth reciprocing that those with long - standing physical, mental, or intellectual impairment or impaired perception and who face various obstacles that can prevent a full and effective community involvement from taking place just like others. Money should not interfere with legalization of the contract. The people's members take their heart to these viewpoints of the Qualified Community. The ability to minister to patients on mechanical ventilation is critical. The European Union has stressed that the costs of mechanical ventilation by patients in private homes will be met by special financial resources, but they will not be taken from general legal resources for personal assistance. A group of people agree with these views. Then it's time to be able to employ agricultural resources for children with severe mental and developmental disorders. They need to be in accordance with the previously given criteria, and it is necessary to provide in accordance with that of 500 billion. K. to carry out the project annually. The cost of this project was rated as part of the cost assessment for the new relation to rural society according to Article 21. the treatment of services to disabled persons with persistent needs, and it was estimated to cost some 500 million. K. The budget of 20181⁄2022 and the bill report assumes 500 billion. K. to this end. The budget bill suggests that the budget for the project will be 300 billion. K. There's 200 million dollars to be added. K. in line with the previous promises of the state, so that the foundation of a rural society is established to accept this new assignment. As a result, I come to the greater extent that the people's party has said here regarding the lack of the lowest income. For performance, an individual will need to be turned to the Department of Health Calculator at the latest 223,000 K. per month. This, therefore, is a standard set by governments themselves. This is without housing. So, including just as much as 320,000 can be, is enough. in a month to live for that person. This is a fact that must be handled by practical solutions. The group of Flock's people approached a specialist in these topics, Dr. Arnþórsson Arnethon's son, who proposed that the equations of tax loads between income groups would be more likely to be involved in the rich and the poor in society's affairs and that those with income subsidies will be spared from paying taxes on their income. There is compelling evidence from our good specialist, Haukur Arnethon Arnþórsson of Arnethon, a report in the IRS, that is found on the General Assembly website as a document of our Congress Relations on this subject. Then I came to see that the members of Stockholm's council have, with the support of two members of the Central Party, presented a General Assembly resolution proposal for an increase in personality withdrawal, i.e. the monthly income of individuals less than 300,000 k. will be free of taxes. Is a financial secretary assigned to set up a timetable in this regard. In view of the tax burden of normatic households as reflected in OECD data, it is found that the tax burden of domestic income is similar here to that of 22◯30%, except in Denmark, where it is very low, while the tax burden of income - bearing households in this country is 8% lower than that in the North countries. The figures there are 38% for the largest family type, while about 46% are generally in other countries. It's interesting, Mr. President, how well they do in this country with the highest pay in terms of taxes. The aim of the proposal is to balance the tax burden between the low income and those with a high income so that those who earn less than 300,000 dollars can earn. ... heisfree of taxes. Those tax limits are equal to 106,387 k. Privacy. There is a twofold increase in current tax-free limits, but they have not been paid in 1988. If they did, they would be almost the person suggested. To deal with the costs of this change in part, a person's withdrawal is suggested to reduce the amount of income that is higher and fall completely at 970,000. The character extract is falling along a curved process that softens the effect on income - greater groups and shows that the emphasis is strongly on increasing the provision of low-payers. The proposal suggests that the venal point of the lower and higher taxes will be 562,000. Tax taxes gradually rise from that amount with rising income until the tax increase reaches less than 54,000 dollars. every month, when income is back to 970,000 bucks. The rate of higher income would be the same. Thus the proposal involves a transfer within the income tax system. The suggestion adds to the provision if it was successful, about 70% of the taxpayers. By 2017, half of the taxpayers had less than 400,000 incomes. and the other half with income over that end. The average pay of the same group was about 500,000, but high incomes stretch out the average wage. Only 10% of taxpayers had 800,000 dollars. or more on income and 4% more than 970,000 dollars, where the proposal assumes that taxes increase most. The cost of government funds because of these changes would be only about 3.5 billion due to the transfer of tax pay taxes from a higher paying tax to a lower paying rate of some 22 billion dollars. However, by 31.4 billion dollars, the local community's expense would be near the expense point. The change, however, would increase the provision of low - paying workers by up to 54 billion dollars. every year. The cost of this proposal can be compared with, Mr. President, the cost of the motion of the Independence Party, a state financial minister presented in the lead of the 2017 General election, by the reduction of the underdeveloped income tax by less than 2%. In the opinion of Dr. Arnþórsson Arnethon, the cost of the proposal is estimated as close to 24 billion dollars. This can be compared with this 31.4 billion. In fact, at the expense of the aforementioned motion of the Independence Party, a larger number could be reasoned. At a cost, it may be noted that the income of public officials will be increased if dead bodies account for about 45 billion from 2017 to2019 due to higher taxpayers, estimated at 32 billion dollars. In the state, and about 13 billion dollars. for rural society. Part of this increase in income would normally be used for transfer to a rural society so that the tax would be equal at expense. This suggestion does not mean that tax steps will be altered, the monopoly of the personal withdrawal, and the appearance of taxpayers by different income groups. So here is a suggestion for change, significant change, of the general tax system, and new goals. The difference between the tax burden of earning hair and the low income in this country is correct compared to the percentages between comparable groups in other countries, and the management of the lowest pay-off point was also accomplished. If this proposal succeeds, it will serve the interests of the country, the interests of the elderly, the desperate, and the income of its afflicted families. Transporters believe it is a significant input into the labor movement's struggle to improve the terms of the lowest paid and that it could play an important role in creating practical agreements that would lay the basis for continuing legal structure. The cost of the proposal is similar, but it actually is somewhat higher than in a proposal made over a year by half a financial minister. As a result, I have come to my next talk on the program that I have given this talk, which is a vacation limit in the social security law. There is no plan in the budget to reduce the amount of money paid for micro- or rehabilitated pensioners. Free income limits in the Social Security Act have been unchanged since 2009. However, they should follow annual changes in the same way that pensions under social security laws. Its regulations need to be included in the Law. In its review to the budget bill, Iceland's microengineering alliance points out that the pay-off market for employment encourages microenergy pensioners with some skills to be employed in order to improve their effectiveness and to improve their terms. During the job market holiday market pay increases, there will be no return of raises to biofuels. If a income-free market had increased, according to the 2009 increase in remuneration rates, the average payoff would be more than 200,000 k. per month instead of 109,600k. The people's party agrees with the Micro-Environment Association that the cost of commercial disability will be increased in accordance with the increase in pay number since 2009. Mr. President. In the beginning of the year, the group of Flock's people proposed that pension be reimbursed because of costs, which cannot be paid or added in any other way, to a pensioner who cannot support himself without it, and to provide for the movement of senior or microenergy pensioners, and to microenergy donors, because of driving a car, the tax law on income taxes, will be withheld. Unlike the disability pension, such compensation does not mean improving the loss of pay because of lack of working ability. Rather, it means meeting the specific expenses of a pensioner. Clearly, that goal is not achieved if much of the compensation is taken into account. Thus, on June 12 of that year, a council proposal was made and adopted. In order to hide financial and economic secretarys from providing, no later than November 1, 2018, a bill to legalize the change of income taxation, which ensures an incurring taxation of the rated pensions. The proposal was based on the view that it was unusual for individuals to be taxed because of payment for the cost of disability, disability, or disease. The proposal was made by members of all political parties held at the General Assembly, including all members of Stockholm's council, who were particularly involved in the matter. The proposal adopted by 56 joint votes. The integrity of this matter could not be clearer. Now the secretary of finance has advanced a bill, and he has recommended it. According to this bill, two categories of pensions associated with social assistance are proposed to become tax-free. If the bill remains unchanged in the law, the provision of pensioners who have been paid compensations in these categories will increase, according to national and rural income, and the same increase. The Gangsmen's party rejoices that this long - term justice, and justice, is now in the process of getting caught by this bill, which must be given a clear route through the General Assembly. I'd like to be able to do something very brief here, Mr. President, about the so-called housing unit. It has been observed in response to a request from the above that the housing team has proved to be the homes of the country like any other greedy monster, while general prices led to the loan of 15 billion to apartment and housing, 118 billion on the same loans on account of the housing team. It may be noted that the corresponding property transfers from borrowers to financial institutions would not be tolerated or available in neighboring countries of the Icelanders. And allow me to add, Mr. President, that there remains a written petition from the people here for finance minister, the effect of the housing team on the financial expenses of the state funds, and the taxpayers in recent years. What has this phenomenon, considered by an expert group on the future of Icelandic money policy, cost state funds and taxpayers? And what needs and privileges have not been fulfilled because the host's mortgage has absorbed all of this from a government fund, just as he has absorbed the household's funds? The problem of housing markets is taken into account by the European Union of Iceland, where it says that in a rented market, some 50,000 people now live. Of these are large numbers of earners and young people. In general, tenants, according to the German Union, spend 18.7% of their provisional teas on housing costs while owners defend 6.1%. More recently, tenants are in a position to buy property and to be trapped in poverty traps in a unstable tenet. Farming is increasingly affecting the standard of living, where housing owners have benefited from economic flux while renting status has gained weight. In this situation, it is surprising that interest rates according to the budget continue to decline, about 600 million. K. From last year's budget, and it's a total of 3.4 billion. in 2019 C.E. This is about a 15% drop in the course of the year. In its review of the budget bill, the National Association of Iceland noted that the reference values and property limits have been significantly reduced compared with wages and prices in recent years, resulting in significant reductions in the number of households supported by the growth reform system. It says, by permission of the president: A small number of children with little money in their homes (20%) today receive little or no support today through the growth system. In recent years, buying homes has become a burden to rapid increases in housing prices. Such an arrangement is unfortunate, since it reduces the risk of living conditions and increases the weight of new ones entering a housing market. The common reference also points out that 64 billion are expected. K. decrease in rent-based donations. So there's no way to raise interest levels to match rising rent prices. This will reduce the support of tenants, who are the number at the most critical of housing stakes. A group of people are anxious about the state of the land's housing markets and are urging that it will be better to meet tenants and buyers than it is currently being done. The budget is designed to increase the support of a child's family by 1.6 billion dollars. in the form of child improvement. As a result, child care will be $12 billion. next year. The level of cattle increases by 5% from the previous year, and there is a 24% increase in income limits from year to year, but there is a new level of decrease in income of more than 11 million a year in married couples and 5.5 million in single parents. In accordance with local requirements, child reform begins to decline under the lowest salary, but with the change, a decrease in pay will occur at 300,000 k. the parent's monthly income instead of 241,000. A new level of decline results in a decrease in parent's income of more than 458,000 dollars. per month. In this context, it can be noted that the lower quarters of the total wage were 496,000 K. in a month in 2017. If income restrictions were unchanged, compensation would have been reduced to a monthly income of some 67,000 dollars. Which parent and parent are about 1.4 million. K. monthly allowances for single parents In the past, child care has brought great financial loss. This is also shown in the fine and interesting report of the European Union of Iceland from August 2017. After the rise, child - welfare expenses are similar to those in 2013 and about 8% lower than in 2010. At the same time, the number of children's improvementrs has decreased by 13,000 since 2013 and the declared government policy has been pushing that group further. The people's members agree with the criticism that is expressed in the National Association of Iceland's Translation for financial support. Children's support should, on the contrary, become more general and consistent with child reform systems in other countries. Increased contributions to child improvement and improvement are certainly positive steps, but support for children's families needs to be extended to a larger group now and is reaching a goal. In addition, Mr President, I would like to add to the fact that the birth rate in this country is far too few, and the birth rate is not sufficient to survive the normal growth or to provide the nation with so many people, so there are perfect reasons and important demographic reasons for better living as children's families. On this, I put a lot of emphasis on it. No one has missed the fact that an Icelandic community faces a major drug crisis. This year more than 40 people in the age range have died from drug poisoning and addiction. In this regard, there is an epidemic. At the same time, over 600 people are waiting for medical care and are waiting for treatments that are especially cared for by the U.S.A. The largest group of waiting are people under 40 years of age. Because of the lack of success in overcoming this long list of waitings, a host of money cannot be mastered. The situation is serious and requires immediate action. No contract has been in effect between the United States and Iceland's Medical Insurance since 2014. It is called for increased funding for the development of U.S.A.'s role as emergency receptions of very sick patients. The organization believes they're going to need 165◯200 million. K. In addition to a service contract for the hospital Vog to delete the waiting list. Aggressive treatment of opioid dependence is essential. According to a U.S. financier, the current maintenance therapy contract for this addiction is limited to 90 people. This contract needs to be replaced and the maximum number to be increased to at least 130 and140 individuals. This would mean an improvement of 22 million. K. ... onthe deal. There is no service contract available for treatment of illegal individuals. There will be a yearly detoxification and treatment of Vogi in the range of 503/460 such events. There's got to be a plan to make up and install a unit that meets the quality and security standards of the surgeon's office. The cost of it would be at least 45 million. K. A 2008 service contract for re-treatment of Vikings in Kjalarnesi is long out of date. The contract assumes that Viking is a department, but in reality there are 28 days of admission for each individual. That's 66 million short. K. that the daily expenditure for the treatment of Vikings is in line with the reality. A service contract is required to ensure walking distance services in Reykjavík and Akureyri. That would cost 100 million. K. A group of people feels very strongly that it is necessary to respond to an SAU call for government reforms on business and financial treatment of the organization. The lives and well - being of thousands are at stake. It will then be necessary to establish a suitable budget with long-term contracts that have fallen to make sure of the work. The group of Shockers makes the adjustment necessary to make contributions to the United States an increase of 128 million in excess of what the greater part suggests. The total production to FEI will be that way, as assessed, 278 million. K. To meet this growing cost of government funds, the proposed division of the Ministry of Health to two Ministry may be postponed, as it seems possible, to prepare for the proposed change much better than has been done. It has been reported that the Ministry's division will cost $212 billion. K. At least, so there's money there for the change proposed by the group of Stockholm and that without any rise in taxes. Mr. President. For many years the country's police have endured financial gains. From the turn of the century on, it seems that all the guidelines for adequate human resources have been thrown into the hands of the police. As the police work has increased, their numbers have become more complex, and the number of tourists and tourists is increasing, the number of police over the years has not increased but decreased. There is an urgent need for police officers in the South because of frequent accidents and a large number of tourists. It is safe to say that law enforcement funds are not at all sufficient to guarantee the work conditions necessary in today's society. The urgent need for an increasing number of police officers, as is shown by a number of reports, such as A 2012 Department of Internal Affairs report on the state of the police where the police's main problem was thought to reduce the number of police officers. A group of people stress that the district office of the country will be strengthened and enabled them to carry out their roles more fully. After the much changes made in the number of county candidates in 2015, the offices have fought in the banks because of insufficient funds and promises of transport to them have not been carried out. In view of this, it is necessary to strengthen the office and rely on the basis of their work so that it can live up to the names of those who will submit to the establishment and service of the State in the district. Therefore, it is necessary to increase the budget to them as well as to keep the promise of the transfer of projects from councils and institutions to the country and to the county support. Mr. President. Despite the government's offer of a major transport campaign, it is clear that many urgent urgent transport projects are still to wait, including double Hölfjörður, Sunfar, Alf - Year Bridge, and Futurah. Improvements in transport are being made in many ways to the inhabitants of the country and to strengthen their habitats and occupations. Based on a separation policy from the capital, south to Cheflavík, Citynes, and east of Selephos, it takes way too long. The group of people stresss the urgency of major roads and finds it unacceptable that the government groups will be able to make these matters easy when the whole road system is under high traffic pressure and the need for reforms is needed. In view of the information presented by the representatives of the Road Building at a recent meeting of the budgetary committee, the Group of People considers the benefits of investigating the benefits of group transport, transport and freight vehicles by measures such as the limitations of the axlet-weight, military rules on the number of axes and river decks, as well as the width and lower air pressure in the wheels of these vehicles. In view of the information made at the requested meeting of the budget board, the shoes can be made that there could be a very large amount of money saved in the maintenance of the country's road system. In his review of the budget bill, the Transport Service Association rightly points out that long ago it is urgent to consider increasing the funding for the maintenance and development of the land's transport system. A growing need for maintenance after many years of neglect is now estimated to be 65 billion. Add to this the new development that has become so urgent in many places, as mentioned earlier. There is no need to debate the importance of good transport for tourism, which, in turn, supports urban development in the country, trusts around the country. A group of people point out and agree with the tourist movement that it is already shown to slow down the growth rate, at least to some extent, be an ideal opportunity to consider increasing the maintenance and innovation of transportation. This too will be pointed to an airport within the country. Istavia estimates this time that about 700 million people are missing. K. to help maintain the minimum maintenance of internal airports. It has been neglected for far too long. The cumulative need for maintenance and implementation of domestic airports is over 50 billion dollars. Since 2010, the budget for building and operating on national airports has dropped by half, from less than 6 billion dollars. At less than 3 billion bucks. every year. This is a great paradox over the years, with a large number of foreign tourists growing from 490,000 in 2010 to 2.2 billion. K. Last year. Home - to - house airports are very important if you are able to spread more tourists around the country, thus strengthening other infrastructures and dwellings. In its review of the budget bill, the Community Association in the capital area draws attention to the fact that there is now a comprehensive analysis and proposal of a joint team of members of the Ministry of Transport, the Road Building, and the Association in the capital area for needed measures and improvements in the transport of the capital area to the year 2030. These suggestions were presented at the beginning of this year by the secretary of transportation and rural administration. The work of the above parties is now being carried out in the design of the priorities of the analyses and proposals. A group of people agree to the Union's claims on adequate explanations and policy regarding the government's plans for the host's fee. At the U.S. National Assembly in September it was clear to the councilman's position that the decision to make a guest's payment for a partner would be taken before the end of this year. The Union has repeatedly expressed reasonable demands that rural society receive increased income from tourism. In this regard, the tax revenues obtained through the pressures of the host's fees have been looked particularly at. A government contract states that the income of a host's fee should be transferred to a rural society. This will be done in connection with a review of rural income institutions, but this is not further described in the Treaty. The last financial bill for the present year immediately reduced those promises. At that time, the transfer of the innkeepers would be considered only. According to the mob, it is unacceptable that rural society does not receive a share of the threefold allowance from September 1, 2017. Farmers have a substantial cost of construction and maintenance of infrastructure used in national tourism. They will also be involved regularly in the other costs of this article, such as in the post-marketing setting. It is reasonable, then, that they will be allowed to enjoy income institutions that are directly established by the government in connection with their tourism. Mr. President. Now I'm getting to the end of my case, but I'd like to be able to do one last thing, which leads to an accounting and a review of it. The ECU of 2017 was published in mid - October. According to a government accountant's signature, he did not express appreciation for the balance account. The reason given is that by permission of the President, the Court of Accounts prohibits reference to making annual accounts in accordance with IPSAS◯ - this is the accounting standard so called - ◯roft but completes the production of all accepted standards. [...] Since the full induction of new accounting rules are not completed and will not be completed until the end of 2019, a government accountant does not give a reputation for the balance of accounts. Then, the visa points to the fact that financial and economic ministers and budget managers are responsible for the development and implementation of government accounts in accordance with the laws and regulations relevant to the State's accounting and other information needed to help clarify the growth and status of the state's funds. The responsibility of the above parties also ensures that appropriate internal supervision is maintained in the production and implementation of a state account, so that it is essentially without major problems, whether because of fraud or failure. A smaller section feels that the situation we have here is unacceptable. It appears that a revised government bill will be introduced first to the Council in 2020 by 2019 if the above - mentioned implementation is successfully completed according to plan. In view of my section 4, it is important to solve the problem here, as it is unacceptable that the State Accounter did not trust to sign the account without prior notice, since a government bill includes information on the legal tax system and its provision. The United States and the public have the right to establish this information beyond any doubt.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u61	Mr. President. I'm going to respond to one of the members of a committee party. paritaprevir Ísleifsson Is remnantson has moved on behalf of the Shockers. It's about sales and/or sale of Iceland's disposal rights. In other words, there is one amount of clearance, a warrant for releasing one ton of carbon dioxide within a given period of time. It is important that we note it, during a certain period of time. These sources do not come together from year to year, but shall twice, and I take them twice, shall be presented under climate law, No. 70/2012. This is offered to the European Union's common market. And why is this required? This is so that the cost of emissions, which so contracts each year, will increase over time, and will be more expensive to blow out carbon dioxide. It is not that this may be confused with our obligation in the Paris convention, where we are obliged to pay our fines if we fail to resist them. So it is not that this accumulates, and it is not that we are wasting our valuables. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u62	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Trausti Guðmundsson for the counter-sponsored. These statements are not strong, but they are encouraged only to be cautious and point out that the issue is uninformed. A senator may have more information than a person could have, e.g. The hearing has been handled by a legal committee at a meeting that I witnessed. According to the experiences of those who lived then, experts on the part of the government had no expertise in these matters. That is why, especially in view of the fact that this is a great deal of money and second, because the future is uncertain, there is a great need to inform, including the financial committee and the natural body of Congress, about the facts so that reasonable, informed decisions can be made in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u63	Mr. President. I appreciate those words, and I didn't have to go too far to search, e.g. advice, to get it done. But I just want to add that to 28. further stated the current law: 'and the state's income from an auction of release will be gained into the state's budget, to be paid.' So it's perfectly clear. And it says in the opinion of the Commission that most part has proposed the sale of this time, about 85% of Iceland's emissions, will be sold after a recent raise of 15 euros per ton and yields 2.7 billion. So it is very important that it be clear, and it is not, as I say, to waste valuables or to spend some congregation term. This is just one way in Iceland to use its disposal clearances.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u64	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A young man Ari Trausti for his contribution in these matters. What is very simply up here is that the matter is not properly informed in the field where it is discussed. The financial committee has not been informed, at least not the kind I hear. A senator is in charge. There's a lot of interest here. Of course, if it is true, it is important that the sources not be gathered up. If that's the case, that's what it looks like. But we should be cautious. It's up to us to make, as I could in my earlier comment, informed decisions. That's what I've been saying here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u65	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Ísleifsson And we're going to thank him for his cooperation on the budget for the planning and discussion of this bill we'll discuss here in the second. I'm going to ask out in that chapter in his speech and in a member of the committee program: ▪ You will need 1% goals for the rest of the budget. We agree to respect our goals, but I want to ask them why. A senator on the connection to a government law on government finances, which refers to Article 6. and 7. gross, baseline and financial conditions, and then 4 and 5. Article 3 of this magazine, of financial policy and plan, of how sacred we have these goals and the inflexibleness that this has been criticized for when it comes to economic management.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u66	Mr. President. Thank you. Chairman of the budget board, what? paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson for the answer. I want to use this opportunity to thank him for his leadership, for not giving a good lead, in the area of the budget board. Of course, what he brings up here is very important. Where are we going to go? I think the answer to his question about inflexibility and other forms of inflexibility is that it was natural to do here a huge effort to create a new framework for the financial affairs of those laws, and we must try to maintain them fully as we can. [[The president calls.]] That's got to be my answer to a question. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u67	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur son of Ísleifsson answers. I know that he knows these matters quite well when it comes to economics, economics, and economics. Now we got hit. The budget's presentation of the Habitat's economic forecasts, which actually triggers the changes we are discussing here and the various measures to go through. May it be said that pay, luck, and benefits are the largest part of it. You wonder if the results in this economic forecast would have been 1,◯2% -- now we've been very lucky that all of this has been going along so far - but if the economy had been falling asleep by 2%, would we have been totally attached to these goals? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u68	Mr. President. If and had, there's always a bit of tricky questions. In any case, the fact is that it is not that it is like climbing the 20 - year - old hammer to make the changes needed to make sure that the decision in a financial program is respected and will be fulfilled. That's why I was very happy when I directed an answer to why. This morning's senator, after his excellent debate for the majority opinion, answered that he would agree with me on making the changes needed to achieve this goal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u69	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson of Ish steed for his speech. He did well to evaluate his budget and the financial bill, and he was told that money was missing for various tasks. I think it was so quick to look at it, I'm saying that I haven't figured it all out, that the amount of money the senator mentioned in 10 billion, i.e. The work that he either proposes or agrees may need to be done. I'd like a previous answer - I realize that the senator does not make adjustments according to this - to tell him whether he or his people have calculated the total cost of these checks, let's say, might become if it happened. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u70	Mr. President. Thank you for my names, man. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór the son of Gunnarsson for the answer. It says that I represent a group that's responsible for government affairs. That class makes one change. It is that there will be adequate and satisfying ways to cope with the catastrophe that confronts the nation because of the epidemics described here in health care and addictions. The suggestion we make is that, in line with the administration's plans, 128 million people are involved in the drinking problem, the U.S.A., who run handsome clinics, and absolutely necessary. I pointed out in my speech a practical way to meet the cost of such an event without paying for new taxes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u71	Mr. President. I'll tell you, I realized that there was a pack. A senator proposes this most recent adjustment proposal. That's right. On the other hand, he agrees to make up the comments of an enterprise's own welfare services on increase of up to 30%, which would be 10 billion, road expenses of up to tens of billions, etc. But there is no idea how to reach them or where to save them. It's fine, smart and important to talk about responsibility, but you'll also have to, I mean, that if you're putting up some ideas or ideas about extra expenses or important spending, you have to come up with at least fund proposals against it or, if you prefer, cut-offs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u72	Mr. President. This is once so that in complex society such as ours, there are many needs. It's called a lot after service. We know that progress in medical science and drug development produces requirements for increased service, increased medicine, and so on, and all of this costs a lot of money. It has to be estimated that it is permitted by members of Congress, Mr. President, to discuss such matters in the General Assembly and even in discussions on a financial bill without any requisition of what this should cost in particulars or suggestions they have to offer on changing matters. We're in a hurry. A senator is a government advocate who has a set of priorities. I have disagreed with these priorities in particulars, and I have considered them in a complex and comprehensive way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u73	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir For his fine speech and indiscretions, the Ólafur of Ísleifsson. I'd like to ask the senator in the section of the opinion that deals with a dollar across the loan and the struggle he and we're in to get this off. It says here: ▪ This highly-created system, in contrast to the decrease, leads to the fact that many micro-energy and rehabilitation donors have little or no benefit in earning money on a job that is willing and able to do so. Such an arrangement overlooks the importance of the labor effort of disabled people. By removing this system, we encourage the job participation of those entitled to the special supplementation. It's very simple to me, and I don't know why it can't just go through. [[The president calls.]] When I heard on the radio last night that it took 16◯18 billion to get it off, I didn't quite answer it, and I'd like to ask a senator, "I can't. " A senator led me to the truth about that?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u74	The President reminds me of the hour of speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u75	It's way too short. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u76	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir He Sigurður Páll Jónsson for his fine answer. So that's how this highly developed system, which I covered at all in my speech, is somehow so intelligently designed, I allow myself to say, is that it is quite different and peculiar to think that the emphasis is not everything else in the system, that is an incentive for people who have the will and ability to use their energy to improve their own interests. This should be the goal at the same time as prevention and support and rehabilitation measures. There the emphasis should be. I know that when this cause is settled, a powerful fighter will be involved. paritaprevir The Sigurður of Páll Jónsson
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u77	V.E.G. President. That's where it hit. A senator on his head. He has good allies in the people here on this matter. But this answer is so expensive that it's so expensive that it's what I don't understand because when people start to work and pay taxes, they'll run into government funds. It's that simple to me. But I'd like to ask something else too. I was so happy to see that money is being placed in the U.S.U. for which I've been fighting, and I think most people in this room. The need was somewhere between 200 and 300 million, some 200 million people - some 150 million! It's like throwing a cliff to the sea, but it's not a joke. Could a financial committee not merely agree on having enough money? Why was this impossible?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u78	Mr. President. Hv. A senator is actually calling attention to a very interesting subject, which is the cost estimate of public relations in the face of some struggles, that I do not say things that are about to increase justice and balance in the community. I'll tell you what I'm trying to say, as soon as the holiday market has been the most up - to - date, the Ministry of finance and financial advisers in recent years have given all kinds of numbers about this. But when you seek an independent expert list, you will find that it doesn't cost anything. Similarly, when there are no tax collections, income is stoned in the land to the value of 150 billion. But when decisions are made, independent judgments are made, neutral experts with skills and knowledge to deal with these issues, it is found that doing this costs the price of the election of the Independence Party before the last election. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u79	A respectable president. We're here to discuss the government's budget at 2nd. I have to admit, I'm afraid only when I see the clock in front of me: 60 minutes. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[Up front.]] I don't necessarily have to take advantage of all of them, I'll figure it out. I would appreciate it, because I know that the minister of finance is in a house, if I could get him to sit under my vices, at least for a few minutes, it would be fine if he could be stumbled. It's a little interesting to watch the changes this budget has taken with us now 2nd. and, really, to see a government that has claimed to focus on welfare matters hardly spending five minutes, apparently, in trying to avoid cutting promises here, as hard as the shoe's going to do a little bit. The Habitat assessment, which came in early November, where it was found that inflation would increase, would be called such a slight hiccup in the economy, not much more than that, slight sneezing. But this sneeze cost 6 billion dollars. which the government had to take for action. The simple measures involved cutting down the previous promise of an increase in health and health costs of about 7 billion and adding some of the pets that I might be involved in later. Perhaps it would be no great concern, such as if we did not look forward to the simple fact that if we were to take over it, we will still be working with a very optimistic view of government matters, I would say that unrealistic prospects in terms of government matters, and perhaps not have much to wonder about. This is where the Haust Service came on last spring, expecting 2.7% interest and 3% inflation. [[Up front.]] We are now getting economic predictions in November where there are expected to be 2.5% interest and 3.6% inflation. What has happened in the meantime that was not in our discussion when the Habitat made its previous predictions? We've got one of the largest airlines in the country that almost went wrong, and we don't quite see the end of it, but hopefully we'll make it. This airline is moving about 35% of passengers to and from the country. A staged picture of what it would mean for economic growth if everything went wrong. That movie's not very nice. But that's not the only thing. The crown has fallen by 15%, with its due expectations for inflation. It may not be worth much to drop, but it did fall. This loss of 15%, on its own, according to the traditional effect of the crown on inflation, represents an additional 5% inflation shot at what is already in our pipes. That is why I think that next year's economic forecast of 3.6% inflation is completely unrealistic, assuming that the next year's dollar will be considerably stronger than it is today. It shows little occasion for that, at least in a dot. It is also good to bear in mind when considering the inflation watch next year that outside conditions have been getting worse. The interest in neighboring countries has slowed down. This has reduced the number of economic events in the recent years, and in these circumstances, there is always a danger that the cost of increasing in the number of years will also increase into the prices. So I think it's pretty safe to assume that next year's inflation will be bigger than less. Then we will allow the sheer uncertainty that exists in the area of extremes and the expense increases and the inflation effects of a re-annual bargain. Private consumption has been seriously slowed down. The prospects for this continue, and the inflation effect is just to slow down the same private consumption. Inflation means a vast increase in credit rates and, of course, a higher price of goods and a lower consumption. We've seen everything before. A car sale has gathered about a dozen percent in the fall. This is one clear indication of how to slow down the economy. Despite the rapid growth in tourism, we see, however, that the event in this article is, on average, bad. The average period of tourism has been considerable. Their pattern of consumption has changed substantially, and it can continue to be counted. And to add to this pessimism, next year there's bad prospects for open fishing, hairy, and mackerel. I'm not trying to predict some disaster in the economy, on the contrary. We're about a lot of really strong things. We have more possessions abroad than is a newly stated Icelandic economy, and we have no reason to be overly pessimistic even if we are under pressure. However, it has to be said that it is entirely unrealistic to believe that economic growth will remain in the full gas for the next four, five years, as both this forecast of economy and the government's financial plan. On the contrary, I think it's being fulfilled what we're doing in Reunion, and more of us were defending in our discussion about the government budget and the rest of us. The financial bill, that under conditions of today's economy, there is good reason to be cautious. There is good reason to have hung below, to have some privacy in the financial affairs, but the warning has not been heard. Therefore, I believe the government's problem, when it comes to betraying the promises made in its financial program, is just beginning. Next year, when it comes to molding a new financial program, let alone next year's budget. Added to this, the Federal Bank's criticism that the government's high spending goods caused an increase in expansion, not supported by the bank's financial policies, including the bank's financial policies. has contributed to the bank's growth with the related cost of business and home. It is thrilling to see it after all this discussion after the collapse of the importance of the government's support of the economy at any given time that there has been no hearing of this government. We've made a very nice frame around the budget, but I'd say we're working on exactly the same amateur as we used to. The budget we discuss here does not give us any special testimony about the government's great or good perspective over the government. There is no evidence of a business council. There is no evidence that economic efficiency is a special focus, nor is there any particular clear aim. In fact, it is only very difficult to see what the Kingdom work aims are in the hundreds of pages of the budget bill. I'll find out later. I find that there is a particular concern here based on a policy in which the basic cost of the state's funds is greatly increased where the aim is to raise the financial expenses of a person from 2.3 billion. K. of 2.7 million. K. in the next few years, less than a fifth increase. I say, that's not the real reason. In spring, we talked about this as an unrealistic plan based on wishful thinking. I think that this could be called a dream or even a reality loss at the time of the fall, and we'll see how fast it is getting cold in the economy. Let's go over some special stuff. Let's talk only about the welfare issues and talk about the disability that was proposed to specifically increase the 4 billion to the party to initiate the system's deterioration of the disability system. There are changes that all of us in this hall have agreed that it is important and necessary to attack and that may not be unduly complicated in the first round but simply say: This is where you can take a cent off the decrease, at least the first steps in which everyone seems to agree, all political parties have agreed that it is one of the most important elements in a revision of the disability system. And why? The micro-energy pension system must have the right motivation for the built-in. We see here the incidence of disability or increase and the growth of micro-energy donors in recent years, totally self-sustained in the long term, with such clear evidence that our pension system is completely bankrupt. Its review is absolutely necessary. It is quite a disappointment to see it under the circumstances that the government does not have the courage to take its first steps. The fact that this is behind reimbursement has been delayed and therefore the budgets should be cut down by 1.1 billion k. Yet, some efforts are made to make the knots, or they are said to be no cut. That's totally ridiculous. When you take 4 billion and cut down $2.9 billion, it's obvious that there must be some less money next year than they would've had. That's what I call cutting. When it comes to saying that this is possible in a financial program before 2020, there are these superintendents of lasting increases that are really no cutoffs. I think we can all agree that microenergy pensioners must get less in their pocket next year. It can't be different. This may well be, as has been shown to be the case, including the following: on the part of a number of financial committees, that the government's spending aims in the microenergy pensions have simply been too vague, they have not really been confiscated. It is true that, in itself, a plan such as these 4 billion increase can be adopted and resolved in a financial program. But it is also true that when it comes to the financial bill itself, it is not a matter of approach. Of course, it requires that a minister follow his plans with some plan on what changes he will make and how much he will cost. I can totally agree with that criticism. But this would have been easy on the government and the government. Social Ministers simply starting a journey to say: We are going to take the first steps of delinquency to a dollar across the loan, and these steps will be stepped up from the middle of the next year or something like that. I think that four billion would probably have benefited from that goal. Another factor in this is the account of the sum of funds. It is quite special and really shameful to see an older citizen and disability pensioner being left behind with a reduced share. When we look at inflation prices for the next year, as we look at many people's inflation predictions for the next year, when we look at the obvious, that the dollar has weakened by 15% and the prospects of a significant inflation remain undiminished, why is it impossible to say that older citizens and micro-energy pensioners would enjoy a 0.5% increase in money gain in the next year, which was not a very generous contribution? The original formulations were 2.9% inflation and 0.5% inflation, 3.4% increase in brain. Then comes new inflation forecasts. She's 3.6%, and then there's a cut-off of buy-power gain away from a detem, I'm sorry, Mr. President. This is actually even worse when it comes to reviewing government expenses between 1 and 2. over, to the expense e.g. By this year, our pension system has been much smaller than planned. There was full scope in those numbers to compensate for the difference between pensions and microenergy pensioners, to keep at least this 0.5% increase in money. I think there is a full need to aim for a significantly worse approach to inflation than the 3.6% mentioned. It seemed as if such a change cost 750 million. K. or about. It's lower than the reevaluation of this year's pensions. The government could afford to make the proposed increase of money. She didn't make it. It's as simple as that. We're gonna have Grandma and Grandpa wait. I think that's scary kind of close. It is, in fact, as it has been, when it comes to accounting of the sums of money, that the purchase power of pensions and microenergy pensions is allowed over a long period of time because it has ever been done so well and much. And then, once the situation is completely unbearable, it has to be restored again. That's the situation we were in here in leading up to the 2016 system change. These structural changes were very successful, especially with older citizens, but at the same time it places us under the obligation to continue their pensions. Do not let them return to their posts, especially when inflation begins to recur. I hope we have a choice to fix this between 2 and 3rd. Then there is another factor that leads to a similar disappointment when it comes to the welfare issues. There's work on nursing homes. Over the years, we have been made aware that we are far behind a schedule in the construction of nursing homes for the older citizens of this country. It appeared in the opinion presented by the National Hospital. The budget here in the fall, it's probably two years old, that they had a need at least 470 new spaces between 2016 and 2018. I think I'm doing the right thing. That's why we built about half of it. How do we react to such news reports here? We cut down our plans to build nursing homes next year about a billion. That can be the equivalent of about 30 new nurses. The cost ends somewhere. It's perfectly obvious. We have a flow problem at the Land Hospital, which is very costly to us. That medical facility can't throw old people out. It's not that complicated. The people sit there, and there's no room for care. This also results in cost. There is no savings in the government, there is no confidentiality and perspective, as if men were going to do good and reasonable business. On the contrary, it is far more expensive to serve as an older citizen who needs a medical facility in a hospital than in any other country. We can even see it. In the cost of firing Vifil position, I think, at a rate of about 50% higher than any other nursing room in the country. It is unbelievably unconvincing for government administration. It simply has to lift a rock because we also see that in the next five years, the group likely to need a service project that will grow rapidly only in the next five years. We simply have to get our tails in that structure. Sadly, we were completely unable to invent the list of waitings just mentioned. It increased by 20% on the waiting list after a nursing home in the past 12 months, there are over 100 people, just here on the southwest corner, or in Reykjavík, last September. We can't wait any longer, and it would have been possible for me to find other projects to take action since the projects devoted to these funds are delayed. In fact, it surprises me a bit during all this discussion. I can't remember for a single time in the autumn budget committee that probably believes 55 hours in visitors to warn that these projects would be delayed. That's totally new news. I think it's this kind of an explanation that the government had to cut down all of a sudden. At that time, a nursing home was suddenly held in place, and so was the construction of the Land Hospital. It's very comfortable. But I don't remember that there was any particular discussion earlier regarding government projects that were cut down on expenses or financial resources that might be delayed on the next frame. It is also possible that someone like that can be processed or resolved. If this happens, the next year's budget will simply not be available to respond and continue with the project because it has been cut down. This is shameful because there is a great need. But this whole thing also shows me what I think is our biggest problem when it comes to the health system, i.e. where the overall vision is in the health system. You can't see it on this budget bill. It has been stated, both in the Mckinseyr assessment and with repeated warnings from the former surgeons, that the health - care problems of the system are not just solved with increased financial support, where a largely improved medical system and some overall visualisation of the health system. I don't see that vision here. We know, for example. It is well - known that many health prevention measures can save us in time. Simple actions: senior motor card, increased focus on mental health, increased emphasis on peer care, e.g. Mind force, increased emphasis on job recycling, increased emphasis on treatments such as the U.S.A. All of this is the means of something, but nothing like what the health - care cost will be if we do nothing. There is no savings in saving your money, only a higher cost later in other areas of the health system. We know this and are well - aware of it. We have one vivid example in front of us, the decision to take physical therapy for health care and to repay it. What news do we receive this fall? That this is likely to explain a reduction in the incidence of disability due to musculoskeletal disorders. It is far more rewarding to save, and it is much better for those in need than at any cost to the health - care program. What news do we hear at the same time? Yes, health insurance is wondering how they can cut down the cost of physical therapy. There's all the vision in the medical system. This is summing up - well, you don't know what to call such a bean count in a government because there is no overall vision of expenses, such as in recycling, treatment or other premedical measures in the health system that could save us much else. I'm sorry, but when you look at the health system, it seems to me that it's the best. Health Ministers mainly busy cutting down a private part of the medical system without having any perspective on whether they will save any money in the health system. We have our expert experts out of agreement from next year without any apparent arrangements to make any new contracts. No one knows what the cost is possibly or what it means for patients who use this service and who are actually in the countdown until the contract expires for six weeks. There's no perspective. It's not a work ethic. This is no government control. It's just a resolution. I often wonder when we watch e.g. such measures as mental health care, since we are always taking our fists to find that there's never real financial resources for a mental - health professional. We have not yet been made to take e.g. Psychological services under reimbursement of health insurance and cost. It is as if we view mental - health matters as being quite different from physical illness. We do not, in fact, acknowledge mental illness as a serious disease yet. It's a whole different number and a whole other degree of size we put in this category than any other component of the medical system. Apparently, this is not a serious health problem, at least in this room when it comes to a mental - health institution. That's why we have to change our attitude. We must lift a rock into mental health. One small example of that is how I feel about this attitude. From this government, we have heard that there is going to be a rousing campaign against sexual violence there. And what do we see? That leaves 20 million. K. ... inBjarkarhöfjörður. All right, I'm celebrating that budget, but at the same time, it's going to be a campaign against money laundering and what happens? There are 100 million people who spit in and do not really have any discussion at least Three government tours to deal with this. Clearly, it's more like this. What about sexual violence? I don't know how to watch this. We need to change this attitude, and when it comes to our welfare system, we need to make sure that it is as important for us to spend money on prevention, spend money on premeditated measures that will save us money in later stages. There's an investment in our welfare system. It is not spending, it is an investment that saves us and enables us to cope with the challenges ahead, while the aging of the people. We know that the aging rate of the nation does not have so much cost in the future. If our country was as old as our neighbors in the North countries, our expenses for health care alone could be expected to be at least Today, 50 billion people are higher than they are today. But it's just right around the corner for us. We've got an average age for them in the next decade or so, I think. It is the increase in the cost of our health - care system in our pipes. In a vision of government management, where years and decades are tried to look forward, this is, in 15 minutes. It is not later good to start responding with arrangements today to ensure that we will be as efficient and as good a health - care system as we can when the elderly have grown to the limit in the years ahead. What I miss the most in this financial bill all of it is the results. What are we talking about? How do we employ money? What requirements do we make for increased financial resources? There's absolutely no information on that in the budget bill. There is no basis for determining whether we successfully run our health system or not, or our social or educational systems, if this is the case. That's where we have to do so much better. Only about the education system. It's called a big offense. I'm not staying long because I don't like spending goals in success decisions. It doesn't tell me anything when the minister of education says, "We're going to get some OECD average or northern average at the university. " I wonder, " Where are the standards for our university benefits? ' We spend, for example. much more in our elementary school than our neighbors usually do. There we are considerably above the OECD average. And when we take the total cost of education, we're on a pair at OECD. When it comes to learning, we have a high school success. Why can't we make better use of this budget? What Is the Cause? Where are the measures to improve this success, to ensure, for example Lock, science skills, reduce school mobilization? You could continue to count that. I can't find those scales anywhere in the budget bill. What I really love about seeing is one of the more painful trips to college, where it turns out that there is less going to trade school than the Congregation Book School, despite all discussion of the importance of promoting trade and education. Yet, it was only a few months ago that the Technical School had to be turned away from the number of students because they did not have the funds to receive it. What do we do? We add 3%. Great. What marvelous results! It's not a policy, it's completely aimless. This system is not being controlled. That's not a promise-and-do. Then let us look at other issues, such as transportation. I'm saying we've been over-exploited. The government is beating itself up, saying: We are raising a system of transportation by increasing the donations to them about 4 billion. They may have come here two weeks ago and gave ear to the fact that this was the first time for a full - time transport program. Plus, it's cut down 500 million. K. in the budget debate with no evidence that environmental and transport committees have reflected this cut-off. In fact, it's where I hear very loud voices being very different. There are repeated indications that there is another way, that there is a greater need. I think it's true in many ways, for as we look at the road model assessment that there is a growing need for maintenance in the road system to 60 billion, and we obviously add 1 billion to the problem. When we look at our road system based on the increase in the number of tourists, and road traffic increased, including road traffic. Because of this, it is nearly necessary to increase annual expenses on road work by about 101⁄215 billion to survive the trend. We have certainly not followed the developments that have developed through the country, especially in the south, southwest, and north. Our road system is going down in our hands. That is the simple fact of the matter. The problem is not addressed in this budget bill. I just want to talk to you about this budget in general, which brings me quite a disappointment. I've just mentioned it here, but I'd like to review it further. After a collapse, the importance of the government's financial support was repeated at any given time. We went on to do a tremendous amount of work to revise the laws on public finances and lay down a completely new frame, what we call LOF in a daily matter at the council. It's been a hell of a lot of heat on the LOF. How is this actually done? For one thing, we can clearly see, and the Councilman has repeatedly criticized that the government's affairs do nothing to help with the economy, not now, as they did in the past. It is just as much an insurmountable increase in government spending as it was in the tide of the crash, between 2005 and 2007. There is no change in magnitude. In fact, the government is trying to set some kind of record up when you see a government spending on you, an increase that we've never seen before I'm not so worried about that I know that the money will not happen when it happens. But there is something else. The lack of responsibility, however, is complete. What's the work? Here was the promise that there would be no more funding. Because we had a reserve, you wouldn't need any extra money. We're actually in the third year at this LOF. I haven't heard from you yet that this reserve was used. But we received funding last year, and we've already been preaching money back in the winter, before the year was, without much realizing how much money we're supposed to be wearing. As far as I can see, the LOF, on which a lot of credit has been made, is nothing more than a very beautiful but inexpensive setting, and the process of working very little changed to a financial committee and at the council. I kind of felt like taking the stone out of my apartment when I was serving a meeting of a budget committee that's been a little stiff since the fall of going over the budget, calling in guests, finding potential weaknesses on this bill, etc. What happened, though, when it came to making some adjustments or to win a committee's opinion? Then the government called the matter back, took some adjustments into the budget board, and said, "Please. That's what you do. It's like a minister giving a bill of some sort, hiding a commission to process it, and then, once the reviews have arrived, the Ministry calls in the bill again and says, "We're gonna fix it and put it back into the discussion. You don't have anything to say. What was actually a map of the government's financial policy, requiring that the hold up of government funds next year will be at least 1% of national production, is that the government destroyed every single cent that was available and left a financial committee behind with no regard for its own actions. The pot was actually emptied when a financial committee received the government's amendment. Meaning what? A financial committee made a personal proposal for over 700 million. K. In addition to breaking this same financial policy, the remainder is not 1% but 0.97%. This may not work a large number in itself, but when it comes to financial policy not less than or less than 1% and it's a prince's broken, we don't really have to enter the LOF which boundaries should be on this so-called minimum? Clearly, this is a shock to the fact that this prince will only be interrupted over and over again. The fundamental issues involved in government management must simply not be interrupted. The government is avoiding the obvious in this which has been repeatedly pointed out: The highest state funds in normal balance are unable to handle the budget taken. A government government that is trying to compromise the situation here, compromises very much and large spending ideas and as low as possible - the compromise is not going to work out - eventually has to answer the question, Am I going to live with less taxes or more expenses? It has to be either a further cut in the prenup, or just to raise taxes. That's why this government has to answer. It is totally unacceptable that the first step is just to say, " It's more of a guide, this purpose for our survival. ' It doesn't have to be so rigid. - So what's next? Isn't it enough that it's like plus/minus 0.1%, plus/minus 0.2%, and then we just throw it away? This is exactly what the lack of discipline was trying to handle with the LOF, but here it is immediately broken. There is another matter here that I so miss during the discussion on both the budget and the financial benefits. It is the stated objective of this government to go to a major innuendo on the tax system, probably the greatest failure of the tax system that has been attacked over the last three decades. There's some basic ideas that I know that a number of categories in this room have been involved in a gradual person discounting, a multi-stage taxation system on that basis, possibly removing things like a couple's corresponding taxation, and so on. All of these are my own intelligent changes that are very good, especially for the most commercial groups in society. The ideas brought up by the restoration were very much of this. The ideas are based on ideas that originally came from a meeting point for an increase in prosperity in this country, which is of great interest and practical suggestions. I missed in the entire discussion of increasing emphasis on cross-collar cooperation, increased respect for the Council, that the government never considered bringing these tax ideas to the council, to call the lesser part to the writing and plot in this case that the greatest tax system could be expected to change for decades. That is a fundamental factor in the tax system, especially income taxation, which returns as much money as it turns out, that we are not supposed to be experimenting with more parts and smaller parts, but that we are part of a parapolitic partnership. Such systems need to exist for years and even decades. Then we need to be balanced and agree on where we are headed. Sadly, though, the government has had no interest in allowing the less part of this work. This has led to disappointment, and I feel that there is no tremendous basis for making statements that will improve the practice, promote the respect of the council, and continue to be counted. In fact, I felt that the government's work with a financial committee was mystified by putting in front of it and putting changes in its hands, as it were, not a sign of the superiority of the council or its independence from the government and the Council. To be honest, more often and more often when I sit here at a council and watch our government order that we really are not having political governments but governments. Congress just sits and stands as the government tells the council to sit and stand at any time. I feel very sad and not particularly sad about vindicating the Senate's respect or strength. To sew this together briefly: This is simply a way to do better. The main objective of strengthening the welfare and health systems is well met, as was suggested in the budgetary bill for cover 1. and take other suitable measures or minimal growth initiatives in order to avoid requiring e.g. to cut down taxes, to cut down contributions for building in nursing homes, and so on, and to secure pensioners comparable to the commercial growth of other citizens of this country. There would be only one operation, i.e. that we can only agree to postpone changes in the fishing costs that would increase the income of the state's budget by 3 billion or so next year, and I'm sure we'll be able to make the money we needed to meet most of this expansion. In fact, there is nothing that shows the priorities of the government better than that. 6 billion holes are closed by attacking the welfare system directly without taking the slightest attempt to make a general economy operation, without even thinking of postponing a 3 billion reduction in hunting fees for one year while taking a better time to also design a new fishing system. It is only good to remember that while the economy is being squeezed in many parts of the world, the position of the fishing road is, in turn, very strong. It is good to bear in mind when it comes to our discussion of fishing costs that the system we built up and developed for years was to be returned to those 10 billion next year because of the survival of the seabed in 20153/42016, the growth of the marine soil, and may not be the end of the world even if it pays for fishing expenses. So I say again: The changes in the proposals here, and the work around it, I am very disappointed. I think we can simply say, Mr President, we can and should do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u80	A respectable president. First, I would like to talk only about the trade and the work ethic and the public financial laws. So, first of all, I would like to mention a proposal for a resolution of a financial strategy adopted in spring and to try out the suggestions as they now present to the council after handling the budgetary and pointing to two things. According to a financial plan, the next year's budget of 2019, the budget is expected to be 748.8 billion. The result? 747. That the total cost should be 862.1 billion. The result? Not 862, no 863, same birthday. The hips we made up for the plan are very, very well-freaked. So I must absolutely refuse that explanation. The senator's work on this project is to come here in the spring and set up the box, set up the next year in rough frames, somehow failing. I have to say, too, that I thought it was a problem. A senator traces one case after another, where new expenses were needed. There's more to scarcity, more to nursing homes, more to the hospital, more to transport, etc. And what is this? Up running on two, one plus one plus two, I couldn't count it together. It would be fine if it were. A senator just said so. What is the figure of the expansion he's asking for, and how should it be financed? It was observed that the fishing costs should be raised or somehow increased, since the project has proclaimed that during a normal year, it would be appropriate to charge 20 billion in fishing costs. This may not be surprising. But is it merely the price to raise 13 billion? How much money should be raised in terms of what they are supposed to be? A senator? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u81	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister on the counter. Let's get straight into this business. It's true that the figures are all right, but it was obvious when you looked at the government's cutting proposal that they were kept on track, and that's a good thing. However, as we look at the period when we've been working on this LOF, it's not to see that this law code worked as if it did not function as any braking in the expansion rate of the state's budget, which is the core of the criticism that was here before a crash, that the state case did not help to control the economic variances, but, contrary, won them, i.e. We would be increasing our expenses when the economy was as strong as it would be, and we would need to reassergize our expenses when the crisis was severe. That is exactly what we see today, the same symptoms. As soon as, as I said, the economy sneezes a little, the expenses need to be cut down. What will we do if we cut them down on welfare and conduct? That is exactly what we've always done and exactly what we've been talking about having to do in the big movie. It is true that the government can be commended for staying within the financial framework of the original financial budget, but it can also be noted, the highest. Secretary of finance, that in the meantime, the value of GDP is higher than that of the next year, requiring that the remainder of the budget is slightly higher. It is broken, so this limit for at least 1% is broken. V.E.G. Secretary of the budget is asking me what it takes to do with the ideas we're building on hunting costs. It is true that we have been so presumptuous of suggesting that we adopt a marketing system and simply allow the project to offer these fishing grounds, thus laying this resource price itself, that we have said: It could be 15-520 billion a year on a good year's trip. I can't tell you if it would return more or less. But I can say that the 3 billion on the fishing costs next year under the transition of this government would do quite well in the budgetary ideas we have to close the worst hole next year. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u82	A respectable president. The problem with this presentation I feel is that in one of the stripes, it's slowing down in the economy, it's getting cold, we have to be careful, we can't let our expenses grow fast. But the next list of the new spending issues is in the list. I feel strongly paradoxed in that presentation, and I notice that there is a problem. A senator cannot provide a number of missing expenses. Counting yourself to very many billions is very easy. You see, I can say that with what? A senator that we are totally at the upper limit of what can be justified in the growth of framed expenses. We are on the upper side of it. We should, however, view our numbers and plan for the survival of the next year in public economics. I don't think that in itself we can use anything else. I notice that many of the government officials have come up today and said that these predictions will not work out and that we should assume more leftovers. That's exactly the point. Perhaps it could be even more cautious than building on one percent of the rest next year. However, in view of the discussion that has been held in the council today, without the financial rule, without the purpose of a written law, it is pretty clear how the council had done this financial bill, at least. The government situation. Any idea of having some minimal supply would have gone out because the purpose was not numbered. Then little would have been enough to indicate that financial policy would have to be based on balance and sustainability and efficiency and stability and all the good goals because it would have been the only way for them to interpret it. [[The president calls.]] One percent of the target is over there. They are in control of the discussion now, and that is what they think. We think it's responsible, and it's based on what we have in our hands.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u83	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the budget is very pleasant and interesting. You're absolutely right by the Topv. A minister of mine, Rehabilitation, has spoken of a great deal of responsibility in terms of money, and we have not wanted to suggest some swollen spending ideas. That's why I say, I can pick up numbers for the highest. Ministers here and now. Rewinding 1.1 billion declines in disability. Let's take a billion dollars to ensure the survival of sensibilities and biofuels the minimum possible cost increase next year and take a billion to build a room. That's 3 billion. That's the same thing as next year's fishing project reduction plans. This would be the best change in our minds. There's no responsibility in the state's budget as a company of the highest. The secretary of finance has practitioned, plans to do both at the same time, large expenses, and some record. We've got to figure that out, chief. Secretary of finance, that you are just beginning with the promises you have made in advance. You're going to increase your expenses so much, much more in the next three to four years without raising taxes. I'm simply saying that it's already revealed in your financial plan that the plan is completely unrealistic without at least resorting to the familiar body that has been in the economics all along, raising taxes to a cooling economy. That's why I'm against it. This is not the time to raise taxes, and there is no need to discuss raising taxes. This is the time in which we need to get organized, this is the time when we need to make sure we handle it well. I say with minimal work it could have been done a lot better with the money that goes into this bill than it's given here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u84	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for his talk and at the same time cooperate with him. The budget board on the bill we're discussing, the budget bill. Hv. A senator spoke of hiccups in the economy, which was shown in the living room's economy, where we received a presentation. The legal committee, in effect, suppresses the changes we are making. 2 / 1, 4 / 1, 4 / 1, 4 / 1, 5 / 1, 5 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 11 / 1, 12 / 1, 12 / 1, 11 / 1, 12 / 1, 11 / 1, 12 / 1, 11 / 1, Environment, the measures taken by the government and the proposals for change, as well as the proposals of the majority of the Committee to stick to this 1%. V.E.G. In fact, the minister of financial and economic matters, Bjarni Benediktsson, was very comfortable with the project, and they were incredibly small between financial programs and financial billing, are going to do so. That, of course, is a sign of vengeful practices. I want to ask you why. A senator on the issue of public financial matters because of the nature of the situation. A senator spoke about the LIP as he called it, and we've called it, pointing to the 6th and 7th paragraphs. for financial conditions and sections 4 and 5. policy and government policy. Wants to play. A senator means that the flexibility to react in an economic way is too small, as the conditions for survival and the things engraved on stone, this 1%, which, however, causes the discussion to go there and take steps, but the flexibility to deal with whether we are going up or down, the less economic growth will be reduced?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u85	Madam President. Thank you. A member of the body and chairman of the legal committee are opposed and very pleased to cooperate with the legal committee for the remainder. They have been carefully held over their jobs by reason of reason. A senator and a pleasant co-worker. What I am really saying is that the main criticism of the government's budget has been just this: Here we spend the money that is available for each occasion. We are not quick to take counsel or forethought. We don't take care of it because the money we make is making a lot of money uphill. When personal consumption takes place, it could literally be said that the funds are above the state's budget and that it is very easy to get caught up in the effort to save large amounts of expenses in all areas. Such conditions require strong bone and require very handsome access to basic services. Sadly, all too often in our financial affairs, we spend all the money on the uplift, and then when we get down, we have to do both things, raise our taxes in order to finance minimum financial resources, impair our service, damage our health system, and so on. That's what we need to get out of. This is the fluctuating influence of the state's budget. The main purpose of my mind was the government law to try to ensure that the government's affairs were at least Non-specture, preferably something swinging. Of course, that would have meant that we had to have more rest in the current year and next year, according to projections at least. Further, a more conscious policy must be taken to reduce survival if we feel that it is getting cold. It hasn't been done here. [[The president calls.]] This is the basic element in criticism of how we work according to our praise.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u86	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. The discipline is improved, that's what we agree with. We can even see it. in the measures that go through the Ministry, like if we look at the adjustments. That's well, because there's a policy responsibility in every department. I know why. A senator spoke of leaving the administration order as being a sign of weakness for the council. However, I'd like to mean that this is very positive, because a policy-making responsibility in each case is under the official financial law for a minister and that it comes to our having, if I can put it that way, the hammer is to go through every class before we decide to make arrangements for a year, that there is a real need for money within the season. Hv. Clearly, a senator has a very good grasp of what is called the automatic fluctuation in the economy itself, talking about taxes and improvements in his speech. I agree with what. A senator with that. Of course, we are to rely more on automatic rhythms and to think more of them when we consider government spending. Still, because of what. A senator spoke of hiccups, which really are the same. We'll stick with transport infrastructure investments. We put in education, we invest in education. We're investing in welfare. It should come in handy, on account of this economy, when economic growth is slightly diminished.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u87	Madam President. Thank you. Second and second man's answer. What I think is important in this is, as I came in before, that we ensure a fluctuation. It is, in fact, the basic sense of financial and health standards, that it is determined stability, that it is determined in our bases, our basers, like the welfare system and the health system, that we can walk, whether we are well or not, that the services of our hospitals are the same, that the buying power of sensibilities and microenergy donors are comparable, that we do not have to impair the birthworm of subflux and indefinitely glean. This is the fixture we need. Sustainableness turns to the fact that we don't praise the annual payoffs to a year that cannot be maintained at the same tax level. I would think that if all the government's income institutions are at the bottom of the current budget, it would be entirely inevitable in the same basic service to raise taxes or to limit services, in order to be able to live up to a slightly more balanced state of the economy. That's what we've been through over and over again, having to resort to cutbacks when we get back together. What an excellent example in investment is that we are likely to be ahead in the years in which we should be taking a good look at an investment if we predict the recovery of the economy! But a familiar question comes up again: Can we afford it when we could not afford it in the last down cycle, and we cannot afford it in this rumbling process? So we have starving these investments, both through the down cycle that began in 2008 and the swing that was begun with an honourable force of 2013 and 2014. Then I ask the normal question: Will we be able to afford it when the economy slows down again? Otherwise, the answer is no.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u88	Madam President. For 50th. According to Congress, when discussing the matter and other factors, by permission of the president, the Minister of Ministers provides the information he has access to and has a considerable significance for the council's assessment of the case. For years we have called upon to receive the basis for the amount being set out, both in financial planning and in financial matters, and have been calling on the same thing as complaining to us in our committee work that they do not know what they are getting. Is this a merit, is it an increase on that basis? Is this because of the work being put in their hands? I mentioned it to the highest. Financial and economic ministers, Bjarni Benediktsson, at the dining room earlier, and he said, "Yes, this information should be provided by the Ministry. I hope it's just what happens now. Senators should be able to ask for this, and of course the Ministry should provide such information. Then it's documented and all you can do is ask Bjarni Benediktsson, the highest. Financial and economic ministers, to be exact. Maybe I misunderstood something, but I hope not. This is what we are going to do, and we need this information.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u89	Madam President. We will discuss this important matter, the government's budget, and there have been some of the discussions that have been made with members of the Committee. First thing I want to do is thank you. Councilmen I'm with for cooperation. It's been good, we've had many visitors and many reviews, and we've tried to work it out as best we can. Of course, you're more informed. This is often so that, whether there is an increase or a decrease, the exchange of discussions needs to be reviewed. This time, economic forecasts were slightly worse than the one on which the bill was based since January and had to move up a few numbers. This is the first time that economic forecasts are worse than those on which the bill was based. For the first time now, this so - called birthday rule has been discussed only today. For this reason, I would like to say that there are many other factors that have developed and were criticized by the civil law on public finances. Many members of the United States have said that they feel that while others are being treated with the funds, they are being taught that things should go more or less into the Ministry and Funds should be taken little care of. There's a difference of opinion about that. But I recall that we left greens did not vote with these laws at the time. That was even. due to these balance criteria. We thought that if there was to be any such situation, we'd have to keep our heads up, if it didn't work out, we'd have to go down below. It could, for example. You mean now. Other than that, it is the value tax that is most likely to be added to the government's income. That's even. because of the reduced number of tourists, they stop shorter, and they shop for less. It is also because of the increased travel of Icelanders to foreign countries, where they shop more and do not return valuable tax into the Icelandic economy. This income is expected to decrease by 4 billion. Then there are less than 2 billion, or 1.7, increase in income tax and 2.7 selling carbon dioxide emissions from the Icelandic state, which is to be sold at the auction market next year. This may be the main aspect of the income side. Then I'd like to say that even if we're on this floor, we're leaving the rest, 29 billion, but there are, of course, that there's nothing to be taken away from not getting rid of. Although we have a good economic outlook in general, as shown here many times today, the rate of economic growth has slowed, including some of them. Because tourism is merely drawing together, not growing as much as it once was, so to speak. We on the budget board, or the greater part at least, have reason to believe that there will still be room between budget and financial programmes so that they will be attacked by the bill and reviewed by the economic outlook without any endangering policy policy policy aims. There's a lot of stuff in here, and it's been improved year by year, especially by the bill. Rather, the committee in general offers some changes or, rather, suggestions for the Ministry of finance on the production. It is very hard and complicated to read, some repeated, and more. I'm expecting it to be good at it as I say it has been improved year by year. It is worth noting that we are going to have some sort of seminary or a conference on the law on the terms of the Council, how we have made it. I think it is very important that we senators consider how the budget has appeared to us and how we see the need to change it. As I have previously told you, we spoke left green for elections that there would be a need to increase the donations to social projects around 40,650 billion. We're about to double it, almost, at half the time we've been in control, or we'll have to. In the budget now, for 2018, and for those who are ahead, we expect over 90 billion increases. There was considerable criticism of the financial program, someone who did not feel that it was going far enough, and others, of course, wanted even more expenses for many lawsuits. Of course, it's the same in our budget. However, as we stand to see these funds, we feel that while we are adding up expenses, this is consistent with a moderate measure of government projects as well as the plans for the structure of society. I'm just going to slide through the budget as it happens after the lawsuits. Transport has been reported, funding has increased by nearly 14% between years. That's quite a bit. It is, in fact, there. This accumulated need that will never end and become a lifelong project we need to deal with. But we are also following Iceland's campaign light - related to the end and other factors. I just wanted to go over the agricultural business. There we do not make changes in the budget, but there have, of course, been significant changes in this business environment as we know it. It is a reduction in customs protection, pay costs have increased to farming and then to the import that has been greatly increased, which has done nothing but cut off the ideal farms for which it was not well kept. Thus, it can be said as follows: a small market share and low prices, as well as a reduction in the prices of exported agrienvironmental products, declines in agrienvironment schemes. We need to deal with these points together. It cannot be that we are content that farmers of this land cannot survive what they are trying to do. In the greater part, we would like to consider that when a financial programme is prepared to go up for increased food production through targeted cooperation with the state's agricultural, food research, and development institutions. Then you need to keep this point in mind when we re-evaluate the livestock contracts next year, i.e. the status of farmers and the challenges they have faced. Tourism is our largest export work. We need to try to control this importance on economic grounds. We need to make stage photos. Information collections in connection with the Icelandic tourism service have been well established. But what has been purchased is lacking, and economic research is also lacking on aspects of travel. I'd also like to say that in accordance with the government's policy declaration, we are setting priorities for the environment. We raise environmental contributions to an actual value of about 1.5 billion, that is 9% between years, and large amounts of money are spent in the process of land healing and foresting, recovery of wetlands and birch forests, and deforestation. We are also trying to activate innovation and individual enterprise, and this is expected to be 60 million in climate Fund. Governments prioritize for nature protection by improving their contributions to the land guard, by trusting infrastructure for the protection of nature and cultural memory, and by promoting research and follow-up in nature protection. I'd like to do a little better over this because Iceland, as we all know, is a natural sport that's unique on a global scale. What a responsibility it is to safeguard it! As stated in the government's policy treaty, we make a special effort in terms of peace that are already under way. Peace terms for five different areas of the current Preservation Programme have been issued for promotion and not long before the next one is added. Then, of course, it is preparation for the establishment of a national park in the middle of the country, and it is the landland defense that we must promote as soon as we build up wood in the peaceful districts. It was an economist in the days, with an evaluation and a discussion of nature protection and peace description. It is a pleasure to see that the public is now taking a very active part in this. The big picture is that there's never been more money to the environment than it is now, and that's what happens on the left green watch. We're supposed to be happy about this. Then I'd like to add it, too, because I'm a different guy. A senator, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, was a member of a plastic group that produced after a relatively short period of time, that even now a minister has sent the first legal case that came from that group and had a good plastic bag use, which I think is well. This may show that following the suggestions given by the committee is serious and, of course, much more. It was about the environment. Of course, you could talk much longer about them, but I'm going to be the closest to culture, art, sports, and youth. It's important that we keep our tradition and history and our young people on it. There is an increase in financial resources of some 75 million, including some 75 million. to preserve the Icelandic language, which requires support for the publication of books of Icelandic languages, which aims to promote read and protect the tongue. There are also extra contributions to the Film Fund, and then there is a language - language operation program that will be funded and 460 million will be put on that project. Work on new sports events includes Emphasis on paying for the participation of children of foreign origin in sports and youth activities and identifying the status of that group. I think it's very important. I also mention a plan of action according to the proposals of an Outfit following the # I like the revolution. The minister is going to submit a bill to legalize the communication representative of the sports and youth movement, and I think it is very important to do so well. With high school, there's a slight increase. As the increase in school is ahead, each student's contribution is increased by 180,000. between. Yet, the fact that high school is not too well held, as we know. The effects of other changes, including that will be due to the shortening, whether to those who will be enrolled or to those who fall for some reason because of education, as are those who are more than four years old. We need to try to determine something. I think it's very important. We're adding expenses to the university. They'll be less than 47 billion. This is part of the Treaty's Convention that we will achieve an average of the OECD countries. There is a working group working at the Ministry of Economics to define the best way to compare evolution to the university degree compared to what happens abroad. A comparable standard must be available, so we can discern where we are on that standard. The more part makes proposals for financial contributions to the public university, the more important school work there is. This has been put to the test only through the LungA at Seyndir, a school that has been operating for four years; it began with the festival. But there is now another high school in Flattage. They're both very important for supporting their communities, that they're built-in. They quickly draw a great many people, putting a little bit of power into society. They've written a bill that these parties helped to and tried to create a law on this, and I hope the Minister of Education will bring it forward to the first. We believe the Ministry of Education has to negotiate with the schools and ensure the funding of the schools. The pursuit of knowledge centers, reeducation, and education are extensive. However, it has been found, at least from the information we have already received, that there is far too much difference between this board of training and education. That's something we need to get out of here. What is the basis for these contracts? Why are they so different? Of course, there may be many reasons for that, such as locality, weak places, etc. I don't think that's true in every case. It's important we draw this out. We suggest that the Western Educational Center and the East Bridge receive contributions because the territory is enormous. In the East, we need to look more closely at the fact that there is little money there for college that needs to be considered better. I would like to review the health issues that have been widely discussed here. It has been called for a great deal of health policy, and fortunately, we have taken the first steps to do so by means of a very large medical assembly on November 2, 2011. I sat there, and there were people from all directions, out of the sector that I thought was positive, who wanted to contribute to a good course. The main focus is on public health care, the reduction in payment of the event, the implementation of the Land Hospital, the use of more intensive walking services, and the support of health care services in the country, and, of course, mental health care. The budget is increasing by 7% at a rate of less than 15 billion years. Current focus is placed on health care, including health care. to strengthen her to receive and relieve the stress of the hospital service. I hope that when we begin to see the mental - health workers working on the health care providers, as has been foretold, and more cross-cutting service there, it means less attendance at accidents and hospitals. There's also a total of 840 billion. K. a permanent contribution to your list of waiting lists. Two hundred million are put in place to promote design, 200 million in walking care services, and one to promote health - care services in the country as well as special hospital services. Also, money is used to reduce the discount of the health - care institutions in the country. There's been a lot of talk about nursing homes today, and I'm just gonna come inside. Preparation has taken a long time; property selection, contracts, and so forth, which will be less expensive when it comes to implementation. However, the end of projects, e.g., should not in itself be delayed. in Húsavík, in Cape, and in Stykkisolmi, as well as in the capital area. A nursing home in Hafnarfjörður and at Seltannei will be started early next year and the construction of a nursing home in Aargh and on the Plain road in Reykjavík will be well established. With these projects, the number of nurses increases by almost 200 in the next two years. These include: so, as we know, to improve equipment as well as to meet some degree of burnout. There has been no nursing home in Seltiannnes, but this changes at the end of the year when a nursing home will be used for 40 people. In Hafnarfjörður, nursing camps will also be used in the next year, and it has been decided to attack the counterrequisite improvements in old Sunvings, which adds them to 33 compartments. A nursing home at Plain Road is well established, there may be 99 residents, and hopefully it will become a full business next year. In a year's city, there's a home for 60 people. It is in part compared to what was in Kumbaravgi and in Bleshagis, but it is still an increase of 25 spaces. So it is clear that there are activities in many places. As I mentioned and pulled up here, they are in the city of Smokenes, Mosfellsville, Akureyri, Húsavík and Hornfjord, and there are about 180 compartments that will be used in the near future. I think it's all for the benefit and all you can say is that we're still using an injection in the development of nursing homes. Then I'm going to talk about the disability issues. As we all agree on this article, there has not been a fundamental change in the disability system since 1999, and very important, as I think we all agree, to revise the system from scratch. It's been very slow. It's complicated, and it's heavy, and people deal with a lot of things. But I certainly hope that the task force that's been working for the Minister of Social Affairs is lucky to make suggestions for a minister who will handle the most urgent of them. Our social security system must be protected as a forwarding system and at the same time the security network of the people who cannot support themselves in a labour market, e.g. Due to impaired ability of function. A project to reduce the incidence of disability in a complete way also needs to be approached because changes have been made in the structure of the stratospheric system, working responsibly, increasing part - time activities, and working as well as in general changes in social and professional attitudes and practices. I've said it here before, and I can still say that I think that there's a little bit more to it than in the community that there's not enough willing to take people with less ability to work. We face the fact that the main growth is due to mental disorders. I have not felt that secular work as a whole is hard enough to offer part - time jobs, that people can do a lot of work, some perhaps only 20% or 30% or 50%, and all too few jobs are available to them. Then it is the subject of the elderly. No topic field is growing as much in real value as the subjects of the elderly. Since 2016 the increase has studied 30.5 billion, which has been said to be about 60%. By 67 years of age and older, expenses have increased by less than 7%, but they increase by 60%. I'm not going to argue that everyone is well - kept, but we'd like to better identify the elderly and draw out those who live under poorer circumstances. There are about 5,500 people who have effective rights to pensions at the Insurance Institute. There are less than 900 who have practically no income except the pension, and we want to put this group in first place. There's also a team of work at work, and I hope it has a good idea that once we reevaluate a financial plan, it leads to a conclusion that it doesn't go uphill, but that this group has a priority. Then there's family stuff. There's an increase of less than 4.6 billion. The most significant increases in child - rearing are some 1.6 billion, which we know are due to increase specifically in order to support income - rich families. This is both an increase in the amount of money and a threshold due to impairment. Then, of course, there's an increase in stocking ordinary funds to 600,000 bucks. That, too, matters. Then there are 200 million that we set for early intervention in the affairs of children and actions in behalf of a wealthy child's family. Those were the big lines. I'm just going to go over a few changes in some of the more parts, I don't have time to go in many. Here's a proposal for a billion to increase the contribution in accordance with a tax payment scheme due to innovation and development projects and estimates that it will study about 3.3 billion next year for the year's sake. Then, one position is expected to strengthen the trial of the Northern West police on sexual crime, 14.6 million. There are also suggestions that we agreed on at the General Assembly this summer to design and prepare for the construction of a ship of ocean research. So here's an important case, I think, environmentally, 180 million will be spent in Strupped Stuppe's development projects based on the separation of irrigation systems in local buildings and using so-called black water to build a fortune in Holas. There was a lot of discussion in the black water budget. This is in order to achieve the objective of protection of Lake Myy as well as to renew nutrients for healing Holas in cooperation with the State's land healing. We also propose temporary contributions to the Research Centre Rifs at Redfarves to 10 million. The aim of the research centre is to promote and increase natural research on the Melrack Plain, collect and hold the exchange of environmental information in the region along with a number of other projects. We further suggest that the Environment Ministry negotiates with the Research Centre Rif for budgets in 2020. This is a very important work, and it is just to strengthen the risk of offenses. We're putting a lot of things together. It is often said that there are not much changes between discussions, but this small sum is of utmost importance in a large number of rural areas and can lead to the maintaining of several collections and so on. I even want to. Note that we have 10 million because of Jón's 200 - Árnason - old birthday, and we also suggest an additional 8 million for a temporary contribution to the house of Paul in Olafursar, and to adapt access to motion maladies at a Stone House, a collection of memories of Steinar, etc. There are many of these, and all of this matters, even though small amounts of money. As I said earlier, 400 million are being supported by the publication of books in Icelandic. We also agreed, the Allied Parliament, this summer to start Iceland's Children's Culture Fund. At that time, there will be 100 million, and it will be expected that in the next five years. Then, we have other smaller projects that turn to RIFF, to Tutti, 15 million, that is a contribution to Kalkas, the social club of Iceland and Greenland, which includes the U.S.A. To teach children how to swim, which you must think much and needs and a good job. In fact, at high school and university, funds for the deaf and hearing - impaired communication center are expected because of my school interpretations, which I have at times referred to here at the council. There have been very often the lack of money and the wide range of fluctuations in demand for this service. Now it's been put on money. As for the university, 30 million are reported. K. transfer is because 20 more nurses were expected to be attending the University of Akureyri than were expected and expected in the bill. There is a great desire to increase the number of nurses in the country, and the University of Akureyri is ready to take this assignment into two cycles, but it certainly takes this money to build the foundation, as we know, to hire people and other such things, even though the class will be in two ways. We also contribute funds to the eastern bridges and to the LugA and the Knowledge Network of Thetainers, which receives 10 million. I had done well over my nursing home, but I would like to mention that 40 million are in the process of establishing a special support team for long - suffering children who need much support. Many of the things underneath can have an impact in many places. Then we propose 200 million for the renewal of the imaging equipment at the National Institutes of Health and more. This must be corrected, a respected president - and I have contacted the Department of Health - What is stated on page 6. 36 in our opinion, there is a proposal to transfer 26 million of the number of hospital transports into several institutions, where new supplies on a medical flight are expected to increase the health - care costs of the institutions'populations. There are 16 million at the National Institutes for Health and Health for the Hospital in Akureyri. The right thing is here to say. Next, funds are used to strengthen the management of the bodies of elderly members of the Vifilus, a permanent facility. We've been adjusting this for every year, but now it's made permanent. We also place funds in Krysavík and Hlvementhouses and funds at the Centers of Parents and Children, 30 million. The Art project and Björkhold also receive contributions, 18 million are added to the Afghans of Akureyri, and then funds are put in place for the State's National Analysis and Advisorship Centre to further the need for her business. As I said before, the workplace contracts are stocked with money. It is considered one of the most effective parts of the conversation that is available in order to increase the effectiveness of people with impaired skills. There has been a great increase in this project, more than expected, and this is why this is suggested to increase the need not to take limited measures. We also suggest a contribution to the company of Jónsvers on weapons, not a large sum of money, but a big deal, since the options can be initiated in cooperation with the bloodbath, the country society, and other parties. We do, as we have seen today, a suggestion that the U.S.A. allows 150 million people to negotiate the walking services. and strengthen other services in accordance with policy. We also place funds in the light and other persons mentioned in our opinion. A respectable president. I think we're supposed to be happy with this bill. When you talk about an increase in the amount of money running from year to year, you may find that someone may not feel that it is enough to do it when others seem too much to be done. But I believe we're on the right track. We can discern where to begin or where to finish. But I think we're on the right track here, and I feel that this is a forwarding bill, where we're being strengthened by wood, strengthening health care, education, and some other things that we were talking about doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u90	I'd like to see a policy and goal-breaking discussion. Such listings of the council's bites, especially right, left, are not much of the means. There is no policy on this in the minister's affairs, e.g. about the museums? It is well considered that it is the aim of improving the access and communication of culture and art, to protect the culture of the nation, etc. as objective of the topic field. When you think about it, you might ask: " Why does the Senate interfere? On average OECD? When that promise was made, it must have been in line with the present evidence. The information then available makes that goal. It must be listed as an example of the goalposts, according to Icelandic explanation, that what was once the OECD's average will not be later. Once we've fixed it only, there's something else we actually promised. How does this work when we're supposed to be in the direction and goals game?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u91	A respectable president. It's true that we want to have and have policies. I think it's perfectly clear. But it's also quite clear, and it knows why. A senator, that not all people should be heard in knowledge of all creation. And so it is, as I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, that we make decisions on a financial committee, that we must not take from ourselves all the financial resources, that we cannot dismiss everything to the Minister. If so, we would have little else to do, let us mention it from the prospect of becoming ministers. The OECD information? That has been said for many years. There's nothing new under the sun. Unfortunately, work has not been put into it. But it has been said that we want to reach the standards there is. It's different, and we've been completely aware that, despite the fact that it's true, it's stated that we want to reach the OECD criteria. It is not new that things need to be considered behind them, as they do with understanding. There are many countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u92	A respectable president. The Ministry has just complained a little about these bites of the council, since they have no perspective, follow-up, or so forth with the resources set out in the rest of the council, and with what objective and success should be achieved by the resources the Parliament places on one project, and not another. What results can be obtained from the funds the Parliament places on one project that the Ministry places on the same project? Is there a difference? Is there any difference in what demands are made to the budget of the individual? I think we need to think a little bit better about how we're doing this. I just want to come into the nursing home for a second. Several nursing homes were mentioned but none of them, at least not the new ones, had 90 spaces or more. Those who come to the legal committee tell us that this is, in fact, the least possible for a nursing home to survive, that they need 90 or more space. I don't know why we don't have a policy on this too, making certain self-sustaining about these things.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u93	A respectable president. Actually, I think I mentioned one with 99. But from now on, I agree entirely with it with the other. A senator that's not good enough. We have authorized buildings of too small a unit, but we must not forget that in the scattered settlements, there are not necessarily 100 compartments of nursing homes. It is clear that it is not possible. We're moving people if we're going to build a 100 - space nursing home. We are supporting many and varied assignments that are difficult for us to follow. I'm not going to stand on my bank when they teach kids to swim. I hope, however, that in the future they can save themselves or possibly someone else. There are a number of projects, and we would need more information. Many of them are on the table every year, and we receive progress reports with that review. I can name the hills of Victory and the houses of Paul. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u94	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech, and I hope she doesn't hold it against me, but I must ask about her priorities in this regard. The left green have gone a long way in the matter of well - being and its emphasis on strengthening them. I'm going to allow myself, but perhaps not so unscrupulously, to set up the equation to withdraw 3 billion reductions in hunting costs from cutting down $1.1 billion, cutting up operations in nurses down 1 billion and securing pensioners and microenergy pensioners 0.5% increase that would cost less than 1 billion more. Then I'll ask you, "Am I not a little peculiar in setting priorities? " Senator, intended to cut these factors down so as to reduce the rate of hunting by 3 billion from the current system? Would it not be relatively cheap for the left green with its focus on the welfare issues simply to provide this change in the fishing costs and to cancel this cut? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u95	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. Yes, we've been talking a lot about strengthening the welfare system, and that's what we're doing. We're putting a lot of money on the welfare system, both in the funds we're working on today and next year. That's why it can't be. A senator did not refuse. He says that nursing homes are being cut down, but they are not cutting down. I traced it earlier. There are things that I couldn't begin on time, and I considered them and why they are. I got some information from the Ministry of Health today. I'm in the elderly's Fund, so I'm familiar with the case. When we talk about it, it's not cut, it's a postponement of performance. I think it's important to keep it up. As for the fishing fees, it knows what to do. A senator of that story. I don't think that any group have the same policy when it comes to hunting costs or any of those things in this room, except perhaps the same reveries and the Conspiracy that would like to give them permission. It's a difficult thing to get together the changes in the fishing costs, as we know in the job board.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u96	Madam President. When things are complicated and complicated, it would be good to take longer to work them, and it would give $3 billion for additional income in the next year, which could be used to eliminate this surgery for the disability of the microchip and provide sensibilities and disability - pensioners. I must stop for this matter of nursing. There's been a long time before the analysis that we're missing in the years at least 500 nurses. I can't believe that such projects suddenly fall apart and that there's nothing to take over to replace the late ones. I believe that humans simply have ambitions to speed up other projects. Of course, this is a cutback, of course it is a billion who does not go to nursing school next year and is thus adding to the challenge. This brings us to another thought. You look at the declarations of the administration parties on the amazing importance of building structures, including these, which were to add an investment to the infrastructure of about 8 billion between the budget 2018 and this bill 2019. [[The president calls.]] I quickly see the cut to five, so all this effort seems to be gone.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u97	Madam President. This isn't cut. I'm just gonna say it again. As I passed over earlier, the preparation has taken longer. It'll always take time, like a dog. There must be a senator. When you're about to start building, it needs some preparation, it's not just gonna happen. As I listed, there are a lot of projects and the spaces that come out next year are a lot, which is good. Like what? A senator says that there is no need. Our hospital will also begin to take over and hopefully reduce the strain of the land hospital. I'd like to think that this is not a cut-off. It's just a push to the future. Some of this takes place later in the year than expected, even before November. And then I just wanted to say one thing about the hunting costs. Hv. A senator speaks of taking his time, but he has to lie in front of a New Year's Eve. That's for sure. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u98	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for the talk, and he comes here to ask her in two things that she turned aside in her speech. First of all, about high school. In the case of the senator, it was observed that the reason for the reduction in high school was a decrease in the number of students. As the senator knows, it was promised when abbreviated high school came to the point that there would be no decrease in donations to school. It also reminds us that the promise of the Government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, was - and has been talked about - to promote professional and industrial education in the country, which everyone knows is more expensive for each student than for the bookual study. So I don't fully understand how the government finds out that it is justified by the policy of reducing the contribution to high school. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u99	Madam President. I thank the senator for the answer. I'll bet you it's more expensive to be working and working, and we'll promote it. I'd still like to say about high school that there's not a shrink, it's almost unchanged between years. It's not much increase, but it's small. That's quite right, and I've said so too, that we need to be very alert in that case. I take to heart the fact that this assignment is not going to end badly. The statue money's in there, all right. But we need to do better, I agree with that with what. Senator, I would have liked to do better. I'd still like to say, because that's why. A senator that it was being cut down, that is not being cut down from year to year. They're not cutting.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u100	Madam President. Sadly, the short time spent in a pit to have a deep conversation. But there's something I want to talk about other than high school. Of course, that's the environment. There, I was amazed that the government with high targets for emissions will bring wealth when it comes to public transportation. It's not supposed to be $1 a dollar, e.g. ... incityline. For example, the city of Reykjavík has now produced a five - year schedule, with 5 billion being set aside for that work. It is a huge project that has to do with all of us. All over the country: there the government returns empty. I'm on an environment and transportation committee and there's nothing going on, nothing. [[The president calls.]] There's no structure, no extra contribution. What will the government do there?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u101	Madam President. The overall transport growth is over 40 billion and is increasing by 12% between years. That's hardly a cut. There must be an increase. It is true that there is no mention here regarding the city line. Of course, there is something that will come to be agreed on. But, hey. A senator knows as if I were handed over that when it comes to how it will be done, the government will come into it. It wasn't so long ago between city and government. For public transportation in general, so that we also take them, they have been in a bit of trouble in the scattered areas, and are under attack, and money is missing. In an effort to meet them, they are now putting money on them, and the need is great, and I agree with it. We need to do well in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u102	A respectable president. I wanted to ask you what. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir of a crown across against a crown. A crown across the crown was placed on, an evil brain, of the left green, and I think it would be a great price for them to get rid of the horror. But I don't understand these numbers. It was said that 4 billion should go to this first. So it had come down to 2.9, and now it is said that there should be 4 billion next year, 2020. But in a recent interview, he said why. A senator's cost of this amounted to $125,520 billion. In view of this, the numbers seem to be huge. It would be a pleasure to know why there is no mention of putting all this money into this. Does this mean that the job estimate is just a bird in the forest? Or is one more trip playing? Should not the money be put on which it is needed to complete the case if that is the result of this committee?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u103	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'm going to start by saying, because I was asked at the end of an interview, right at the end of the interview, I was told I wasn't going to make the right numbers. It has been observed that if all is taken in, a dollar or a dollar can cost from a dollar to a thousand billion, something like that. Of course, it depends on the way it's done, and I'm praying that I've said those numbers in Aldu's ponta. However, I added the billions of dollars that we have spoken about here recently, i.e. this 4 billion, because I didn't think that the 4 billion people should necessarily take a dollar off against a dollar. I thought it was about something else, something else in the system, because it's probably not just about decommissioning a crown against a dollar's impairment. The Chairman of the Micromanly Community has said that a dollar or two could be taken away from the work force by tomorrow. That is why I have considered it to be a part of the service group to find out what they could do with their money. I looked at it so they'd be outside it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u104	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for these answers. I just want to help her to see that this amount of dollars against the decrease is not involved in the performance of the job in itself. That's 25 billion, I'd say, in two years, senior citizens have already received. It's just a matter of creating one category of reforms, but don't have this particular supplement. She's the one who makes all this wish and we're just supposed to take it away. But what I think is strange in this is that I'm nowhere -- because I know that 4 billion don't work -- but if we start thinking it in another way, 4 billion probably enough. I think that the money for the government because it'll be great if it doesn't even cost 4 billion, I think it'll only grow for the government, and especially for the disability. Then this charge shall be of them, that they cannot work, and that all things are diminished. And I say never to stop people from working. That's the stupidest thing we ever do. That's why we're supposed to take care of this now.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u105	Madam President. Hv. A senator is a member of the staff who is trying to reach some sort of agreement about hopefully not just one factor, but more, at least I understand that. I believe it is important that the General or that I as a senator be not involved in the outcome. It is important that the people to whom this system has to live, such as cosm. A senator knows, and both members of the council members on this committee on behalf of the Generals are familiar with some suggestions that we may need to introduce in some way. I don't think that's unlikely, because it's a big group. But I truly agree with what. A senator that it is important for those who can work into the workforce. It's very important, but it doesn't have what the system does because of what it's like today. It's depressing, I agree. I'm not quite so convinced that the state came out into plus because a lot of disability can't work at all. That's something we have to face. Sadly, there are many people who cannot work because of their disability and health.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u106	A respectable president. The 2nd. of budgetary bill, the council has had time to study the bill and assess its grounds and the emphasis it puts on it. In fact, I was unhappy to be the biggest time outside the council during the period of distress. The budget was used to welcome visitors and review basic elements of the bill. It may be that my discussion and coverage of the fine bill indicate that I may not be as well read in it as I have often been before. A discussion of the budget is often a burning factor, as is natural, that there are conflicting opinions and different policies and different political groups, reflected in a discussion of the bill and the emphasis laid there. There are different ways to achieve the same goal at a time. I'd like to say, sir, a respectable president, that all those in this hall want to work faithfully and do their best, and that, of course, everyone is doing it. Then there is another debate on how they stress out and how we feel about the priorities put forth, how we feel that the concept of the future interest in the state is and how they appear in the individual Parliaments'speeches, so long ago. Of course, for political debatt, political debates on that subject, there may be a lot of issues, but the bill that we now address is natural evidence that it is a product of cooperation between three different categories, i.e. Groups that greatly outnumber their targets and work together to pursue a course. I must say, in many ways, I have been very successful in hitting the tone that we often use, elections that were over a year ago, and that have spent the last year's years, feeling that it's a bad thing because it's basically the firmness that matters in it. The main points discussed in the campaign are all being placed here. The actual increase in the framed budget in the bill is 4.8%. This is tremendous growth. As a matter of fact, I also recall saying this in a discussion about the budget bill a year ago, and I never thought we would again see such growth as is the fact of the bill. However, it is clear, a respectable president, that such growth as this is a reality can hardly be a year from year to year and can hardly come again. We're raising the total cost between years by 12%, cost 14%, the absolute value by 9%. It takes something of great value to live up to it. It takes an enormous array of valuable things in the community to cover such expenses. It is an enormous and expanding national cake that is being cut off for this purpose. So I say, a respectable president, we must stop. We must start to look at the reality that today's economic forecasts tell us that less economic growth lies ahead than ever before. It is not to say that there is a recession, it is not to say that there is no economy. Rather, there is less growth, which I think is in many ways more healthy than we have lived in recent years, but it also makes us the task that we have to overcome our government business and that our emphasis is stronger and more emphasis than we may have done here to achieve the goals we want to achieve each time. In fact, the basic reason for their spending is that it has been an amazing success in the economy in recent years. It has been mentioned in the discussion today that this is one of the longest economic growths in our economic history, an unprecedented economic growth, and, as I said earlier, it is not a look of stifling, it is only less growth. It's all the fun and games we carry, so it's important that we talk about the budget and that the budget bill reflects in all the main points that we want to work for no more. Change proposals have been proposed, which I would like to say, after checking through them, to be derived from some categories completely unscrupulous. I mention this because at the same time as it is criticized that economic forecasts are all too optimistic, it is being suggested that tax increases based on the same forecasts and should achieve extraordinary sums, probably one 3.7% in the tax returns announced by the United States, if I recall correctly. It's big slices. I specifically mention this because we have been discussing it in our discussion today and in 1st. the budget of how they will appear into the delicate state of society after the year - to - year contracts and how this emphasis can be expressed. The solution to increase the income of the state's funds is taken from the air by plant solutions. I don't think I'll overpower anyone when I say that most of the time, it's probably running around, and I'm referring to fishing costs. We've set it up to take hunting fees and that they're off-limits. Therefore, the price of hunting is reduced when the decomposing takes place. I got it. I got it. Councilmen to study a very careful report made available to their rural society in the northwestern district for the survival and management of rural communities in that area. This assessment does not merely highlight the burden of this currency and the unfortunate amount of time spent paying the fee, i.e. to pay in much goods in the fishing road, but to pay them when the valley is severe, the report shows just as much the fact that you cannot say: Fishing on a large fishing industry, such as a wealthy park paying in currency. Of course, makings vary from person to person. Bolfish extracts in the northwestern microcrowding are primarily the vertebral system in these regions and are acting strongly towards them affects these communities. I'd like to say that there are no patent solutions on how to increase the income of state funds, and most of all, by constantly pointing out this income mail, fishing fees. Hv. paritaprevir The Levite Leví of Gunnarsson expressed it well in a speech today that it was irresponsible and trivial to make changes that never need to be fulfilled and never have to be held accountable. That was well spoken, a respectable president, and I agree wholeheartedly with it. It is easy to speak in the hearts of those who want to hear news other than reality. For that lawsuit, we don't have to give. Otherwise, the discussion here is material and good. The very reason for the success we will discuss and continue to build on is because we have followed the responsible proposal, responsible decisions, and decisions that have been successful in recent years and have built up these successes. Despite such economic growth, public debt continues to decline. No investment is better for society than to reduce the debt of state. In just six years, the total debt of government funds has been reduced from 86% of land production to about 31% by the end of the year; from 1,500 billion to about 840 billion. At the end of the time of this budget bill, the total debt of state funds will be about 30% of national production, which will depend on the goals and financial principles we have agreed on. Nothing prepares a government fund better for the future than a fall in debt and a change in his status. In addition to this reduction of debt, it is now expected to pay at least 7 billion dollars annually. Into the unfunded pension debt of B-in the Penitentiary of the State's Penitentiary. This decrease in debt has been reduced due to interest costs at the next year's rate of about 10 billion. You may ask, " How will money become the best worth? ' To date, the reduction in growth costs and growth in agricultural production has been used to improve public expenses. In welfare and education, in largedeveloped transport donations, and particularly in order to raise the real value of significant contributions from those who enjoy the progress of social security. No one needs to debate that increase or emphasis. I think there's a general agreement on those lawsuits. Although I don't argue that for those who are in the front of their feet to do better, I understand that when suggestions arise, people allow themselves to interpret in a way that does not cheat promises and that they can't keep what they had been told. The foundation is that we wanted to make a global change in social security disability, which has not been achieved yet, for the better. It is every day of the animal that it delays, each day a wound that cannot cause us to succeed in that vital work. Therefore, discussion of the reductions made by a large proportion of the budget committee is understandable but does not forget that this bill represents 6 billion for increase, that the current financial program holds a real promotion. I agree with what. The head of the budget board when he says it's ugly and old-fashioned politics to pretend that this is the case with promises of reform and even reveal that there is a limit to the price. A greater proportion of legal committees are concerned with their view that the worst should take priority. On the other hand, it is not to hear that it is a direct priority for everyone on this subject. We cannot always take the best care of those in that group. Fortunately, the interests of older citizens have greatly improved, but those of the poor who are there must have a priority. It is the main focus of the committee's study of much of the legal committee, and it is directed to those on that subject, to the highest level. Minister of Social Affairs, that's how we're gonna get in the hot tub. But is it really right and necessary for a growing economy and a decrease in debt to pay for higher financial expenses? Is it not time to return the taxpayer's benefits and to consider returning the money to the taxpayers, their share by reducing taxes? A respectable president. The role of the legal committee is to observe official financial laws. In a detailed way, we discussed what. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear in shape and in shape. It must be said that the narrow monolevel is difficult. I agree with that. Senator. So I have to say that the arrangement that has been most attentioned during the past few days, to resolve an increase in the amount of proposals spoken of, and to delay their execution for structural change, must also be considered in that light, according to the extreme fact that the law on income is: the role of legal committees is to make sure that the law is followed. It's cold to have to say, but that's reality. Another factor that has developed during the discussion is our objective in terms of 1% of the land's produce. I'm not gonna hair-do it around the 2nd. We cannot reach that goal. We're not far from it, there's a bit difference, but not money. I believe that alone, between the 2nd and the 3rd. to discuss whether or not to reach that goal. This is not to say that the final appearance of the law will be through 2nd. We have 3rd. I hope that at least I can succeed in trying to reach that goal. A respectable president. We are now in mid - November, 2nd. For the past two years, financial work has been very special. There was a workforce at 2016, and a government that had just sat on the last budget for several weeks, on the 2017 Advisory. Thus, the duration of the Council to produce the bill was very limited. We've had more time now. I think it is clearly identified in the members of the committee and now the emphasis on 2nd. It is vital that we make the greatest progress and that we have been able to reach this place at this time. Today, it has been noted that there is a need to reevaluate the activities of the State and the cost of operating. At the return of a budget bill, we presented a campaign for the government. No one is aware that there is much work to be done but here may be a project that is probably one of the most valuable projects that can be done for the taxpayers of the country. But it must be followed. The savings will have to be returned to a drop in the budget. Involvement in government is not to increase the contribution of institutions. There is something to be done to improve our business, one of which is how we care for the sheep. The bill has a significant increase in transport funds. There is no need for great investments and restorations at airports, marauders, and roads. They call for even more funding in this regard. The discussion must be concluded as soon as possible about other methods of financing to build roads. Road expenses must be optional, it is also necessary to review and replace the taxation of vehicles and fuel. It is simply inevitable that such things will happen. By the revolution of transport energy exchange, the tax stock used for financing this category and for future user costs will also be established in the review to meet it in some way so that we will make the most tax payment at hand. The budget bill continues funding in Iceland photorelated, one of the largest based languages ever worked in recent years. Few people no longer remember that it was the General Assembly who first entered that assignment. That's what I'd like to say, a respectable president, for words that include. fell into the discussion today. At that time, a greater portion of the legal committee carried out the first step on that assignment. The very beginning of the project is a financial work in which members of a community visit to a financial committee and discussions with rural communities were built up to this tremendous effort. Now, at the end of this campaign in individual parts of the country. Next year, it is possible to see that whole parts of the country have an active network. For amazing little money, it has been achieved to unleash a great deal of energy to cope with the initial work that seemed indeterminable. I am creating transportation and communications in the context of the use of new thinking, new ways to achieve the needed improvements, not just to meet the needs of the future, but especially to draw attention to the development of future economic growth. A greater part of the budget suggests a change in donations for renewal of the healthcare centres in the country, 200 billion. K. In the fall, there had been quite a debate over the funding of health institutions in the community and a financial committee. We do not argue that they are very narrow - cut. How unacceptable it is that they are not the right force for restoration and recovery when we devote enormous sums of money to the advancement of health care in general! In the previous year, more of the legal committees made just the same suggestion for an increase in the production of ransacks to health institutions in the country, some 400 million. K. They are now involved in what is commonly called their foundation for business, and they continue to be used. This year, we do not propose to promote business promotion. Rather, we propose it to the highest level. Health Ministers that it operates during the year in reforming the environment of these important institutions, for it takes much more than just money to promote their business, especially a clearer view of their role, purpose, and duties. I also refer to this, and it has a budget, just as it has been mentioned a year ago and discussed in its members, that as the trial of these important institutions, a health minister has a considerable resources in his Ministry to help solve the operation of those important institutions. A significant debate has been made today on the proposal to provide a market for disposal. Hv. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson gave an answer to a very vivid perspective on that proposal. I agree with my associates, who have discussed in our discussion today that we need, between discussions, to consider the proposal better, and to analyze it in a way that gives us a better perspective on what we are selling and what interests are. I draw attention to the brief indentation of each. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson's son was highly illuminating, and that is why more of the legal committees are dealing with climate issues in his committee. A greater proportion of the committee's opinion is that there is a greater need for discussion on the big interests. It must be done, especially from the fact that our country's uniqueness and the opportunities we can have to bind more by agriculture and forestry, with all the resources we have, the barrens, and we can grow up and bind much carbon in, must be accepted internationally. When we start talking about climate and getting better into what is there and the role we have, we'll be very aware that we don't have, I'll let me say, President, protect Iceland's interests fully in the international conversation that is necessary. Our point in the greater part is our future interests, of long - term high economic issues. Therefore, it is important that we be effective in this and that we review a climate agreement will achieve the change that we will be able to get to that location so that we can use the opportunities we have. President. With the approval of this budget bill, extraordinary funds are added to government spending. It is not to be cut down to the classes of lawsuits that a general agreement is to make again. We live in a strong society. We enjoy a powerful and powerful economy. It will be difficult to deal with the economy in the next few months. Here is still the powerful growth, the quality of living has improved substantially, the quality of the majority of people in society has improved. I stress, and let's not forget that the debt of state funds has fallen substantially. In historical context, the debt of homes is small. It is the economic emphasis that will help us through more difficult times, whenever they come. What a responsibility it is to maintain the success that has been achieved! This has always been a challenge, and it has always been an assignment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u107	A respectable president. This is where we spoke. A senator of the excellent bill, so called, but what do you think? A senator on how the figures in the bill and the explanations of counsel don't match? What do you think? A senator that does not really know why it is to ask for so many billions in one topic field and so many billions in another field when the extra expenses, spending bills, spending bills, etc., the figures that are set there simply do not match the information we receive? Should we not have good disunition, so that it explains all the cost? Or should we just guess that something good will be done with the extra money or even the extra money? The fund board gave us a presentation from the Ministry of Health, which covered the budget range and all of it was the equivalent of a dollar. Adding to this, the Ministry of Presidency says: "We are also spending 25 million extra in the U.S. Marshal of Children, who is good and blessed, which brings us 25 million too much disunition to the budgeted range. There are other examples of this, but this is one of the most obvious. Hv. A senator spoke of a great deal of growth, but should we discuss the interest or goal of growth? What goals should be achieved by going to this cost - producing plant? Should we not be at our goal drive, at cost, and at the expense of money funded? Is that not where the discussion is supposed to be?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u108	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. In many ways, I share the viewpoint of others. A senator here refers to the disintegrating and transparent information sharing when we are completing the same amount of work as a budget bill. We've talked about it many times, and we've been sitting on a budget together for years. We can generally, I think, agree that it's always getting into better shapes. As I mentioned in my talk, I missed the weeks of visiting, but I can testify that since the time I have spent on a financial committee, information sharing and reporting have been greatly improved. They are also very different, and we have discussed them at the moment. The budget is setting up a bigger plot and getting the data in order to make it easier for us to do so. I'm just gonna tell you, Mr President, that a lot of departments are doing this art well. We have a goal in our financial program on how to use money. We're still walking one level in a changed legal environment. We have not yet been able to take an entire circle in the legal environment of reporting annual reports of Ministers. I think, yeah. A senator, that we did not reach the point where I thought your criticism was focused on until we discuss the annual reports of the Ministers, when we actually start measuring the results of the money and the emphasis on the emphasis.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u109	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for quoting my opinion of the committee, which shows that they are ignorant if we do not have costly measures, we have no idea whether our objective was actually achieved with the money we were using. Hv. A senator spoke of the tax returns, and he was very concerned about taxpayers. In fact, in my committee opinion that the demand of the council should be a clear and costly course that could be followed in order to justify the fairness of tax recovery to all. This is completely missing in current budgets, financial programs, and beyond. Also remembered why. A senator of how it would be inexpensive for the smaller part of making a suggestion that I mentioned in my committee, but I assure him that me and Piratar are quite ready to live up to the responsibility of our changing proposals.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u110	A respectable president. I don't know exactly how to get my feet in an answer in this second round. I noticed those words, huh? A senator, a irresponsibility proposal, and, as I said in my talk, I felt that it was a good idea. I also noted that I'm not going to work whole-heartedly in this hall, it's just not in my mind. We're discussing this form and the law and how to accept legal documents: we've had this delicate subject, we've had extra money for microorganism, which we can quite use as an example of it. A senator is saying that we do not have costly surgery on our hands. We could have made a suggestion to eliminate this completely from the budget bill if we followed its narrow interpretation so that at times we must weigh what is possible and what is reasonable. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u111	Madam President. Hv. When discussing the combination, a senator chooses to make use of the word "tax tax alas. " It is a well - versed word that implies that a person's pocket is being snatched out of an unjust way. That's not the way it is, Madam President. Tax recovery and sharing are probably the best investment almost all Icelanders have in their lives. Even those of us who have a high salary suffer badly if we get sick and need health care, expensive drugs, and so forth. I think it's right to be careful about this kind of thing. But I understood why. This is how a senator spoke of the inexhaustible suggestions made by the Continent for income gains, which are aimed at adding more to the wealthy not to contractions, not in cutouts. Then let me ask you what. A senator would see whether he was smart during the last two terms that the independent party has been here to lighten and relax when we were in a blundering ruffled? Sit in the couch, open the refrigerator and eat the rest of it, but now you're sitting on top of it, when the Conspiracy has spoken and the inflation is up, like the highest level. A secretary of finance says, if there is no other way than to accept the legitimate expectations of a group such as microchip, which is certainly getting a little more on the budget, however, they certainly receive less than was promised three weeks ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u112	A respectable president. Too much to ask, huh? paritaprevir Logi Einar Einarsson, not to be turned out of words presented in the IIlium symposium? I mentioned the word tax gratation in the context of fuel taxes. There was nothing else. I was discussing the need for a discussion and a decision on other means of transportation. We need to revise the costs of vehicles and fuel and lower the tax payment if we are to finance road construction in another way so that we are not making a double tax burden on the road users. I wish for it. A senator respects it to me that I reiterate this part of my talk to him. In another context, I didn't talk about tax payment. On the other hand, I spoke of it, a respectable president, that it is not necessarily normal for us to always spend all the results that we can achieve with increasing national production and a down payment on paying to increase the government spending. Actually, I think it's just completely unnatural. I was arguing that we should return money to the taxpayers. That was all the horrible words I had in that sermon. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u113	Madam President. I'm perfectly capable of reading the context of things. Given how it went down. A senator spoke of taxes and then used the term " tax payment " is not surprising that you draw that conclusion. Then let me ask you what. A senator whether he feels that way, e.g. since 1998 the tax returns to the lowest wage have increased, while tax returns to the highest income have been reduced? Then let me ask you what. A senator, if he feels that the United States is so desperate, whether it's unnatural for him to have people who can practically bathe in money, people with hundreds of millions, billions, people who can pay billions over several years from deforestation, spend a little more time than the people sitting on the decks of the past, with between 200,000 and 300,000 dollars. a month?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u114	A respectable president. I know a warm heart what it is. paritaprevir Logi, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Einarsson. I think I have as much warm and as good a heart as he is. I'd like to call attention to the increase in salary and that's why the taxes at the lowest wage have gone up. I'm sorry, I don't know these rich people who bathe in money. I don't think it's unusual for us to get taxes on people's property and to accept them in some way. I've never talked about it in any other way. But when we mention producers and billions of dollars out of companies, it's an ugly point to the system we've had - perhaps we should discuss only fishing fees primarily with those who sell themselves out of these companies and perhaps those who sell themselves at the start. I don't know where this discussion really ends. But equal to normal tax returns, lower tax returns, most useful to the lowest wage. [[The president calls.]] I hope we manage to lower their tax burden.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u115	A respectable president. I hope so. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson doesn't see this as an attempt to outcast on my part, but I took note of the wording in his speech earlier that I thought was interesting, and I'd like to have a word with him about the basic thoughts of it: There is no investment better than to reduce the debt of state. That sounds great, but I'm not sure I agree completely with the idea. I think you can imagine a better investment than reducing the debt of state funds. In my opinion, nothing necessarily virtue in itself is reducing the debt of state funds. I think, for example. that there is a better investment in helping young people to get up a roof over their heads I think it is a better investment to promote hospitals, build nursing homes, and build twin bridges. I even think it's a better investment to build a tourist toilet and improve public transportation. There are lots of things, and I pray. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson to consider with me whether to think of a better investment than to reduce the debt of state, i.e. investing in people's high standard of living and satisfaction.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u116	A respectable president. I appreciate this inquiry. A senator and just going to remember that if we, like me shaving in my speech, lower the debt of state funds from 36% of domestic product -- no, that was a much higher number. You should never do smaller numbers, but the main thing is that if we were paying the same interest on the same debt today as we did 2012, it would be 40 billion higher payments we would not be using to invest in better education and health systems, in improving social security, etc. In recent years, I have discussed this in the public assembly - since then. A senator asks me to consider this - that we have also taken other loans, which are a delay in road maintenance. It is also a very expensive loan and is now falling upon us in large numbers. I'm not saying that you should stop paying off the debt of state funds to some extent, I'm not talking about the total debt of state. I think it's normal for him to owe a ratio. It can simply be important for a healthy bond market, etc. But I agree with what. Senator, we must not forget any other loans we took that we do not see directly in our public records.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u117	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. I'd like to come back to the terrible, terrible fishing fees he had a lot of warning about in his speech earlier and, in particular, warned of the eruption of the Union's eruptings. They're supposed to give us 7 billion according to this financial bill, which is similar, as we have seen, and we get a price of tobacco. Still, everyone's kind of stopped smoking. The cost of hunting is less than 1% of the government's income. Iceland's fishing industry profited by 340 billion in 2009,2016. It's more than our health system needs. In other words, there is no difference that there is enormous profit in this article based on fishing from the common resource of the population. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking why. A senator whether he feels that he is too committed to raising these expenses a little, so this article pays its natural price to the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u118	A respectable president. In the past, I failed when I was going to mention the debt of a state fund, so I'm going to make it right. I meant 1,500 billion, about 86% of national production. Hv. A senator asks about the price of hunting and mentions the tobacco fee in this context. Maybe the tobacco charge is way too high. It might be reduced to adapt this comparison, but there is a trend toward such an outcome. My political view of hunting costs is simply that I have seen in the settlements of my district that the weight on it caused the loss of a number of cultures. I don't think that's a good development. To me, it is the life force of the settlements that we are able to preserve these tiny structures. It is often referred to as medium-sized, although the problem is that we take too much fishing costs simply means more compression, and then we watch a whole different pattern in this country than we watch today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u119	Madam President. That was interesting. Maybe I'll start by making a little bit of blunder around it. Clearly, there is a very different attitude that left classes and right categories have for the combination and the tax. While the right categories look primarily at taxes as income instruments, we consider them to be socialism to be both a income and an equation. This is where it comes out of nowhere. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson, speaking of fishing costs as some special equation device. It is quite clear that there is a huge difference between the making of gold and the making of materials that can hardly live under these conditions. In that case, the answer is not to set the cost to the lowest product and allow all those above to shave to themselves. In addition, there must be measures aimed at making life easier for those in small boats, even in scattered areas, designed that are important both for the settlements and for the cultural reasons, and instead of reducing the fishing costs to the poorest model. What trade is it, so you talk a little recklessly, trying to adjust the environment so that no business can go wrong? That's just not the way it is, and it shouldn't be. But I buy it completely, and I realize that it can be important for individual settlements to have these structures badly developed in the present system. Then people will respond. Of course, the fishing charges are meant to be due to the natural charge of their resources. Since the United States feels that it is a failure, it became so bold that it suggested that they rise to little 3 billion. Actually, we're not suggesting an increase. We're suggesting that they be what they were last year. But I'd like to say first that the Union's criticism is not a pessimism of pessimism expressed by a plactic political group that has all over its corners and cannot see the light, can't see the wonderful blessings of these financial laws, according to government officials, but, above all, our debates are based on reports from many sources that have sent in comment. There's nothing to pick out a unique, uniform group. We're talking about people and people who come from very different directions. I can name the labor movement. I could mention a business venture. I can mention the most important interest groups of disability, the elderly, the presidents of nursing homes and public institutions, as well as local health institutions. But most of all, our criticism and change are based on the fact that we are completely offended by the groups that have just been pretty dirty in the community, who have hardly ended up together and have not enjoyed good last few years to the same extent that we, who have an enormously high income. I remember discussing the budget of the last government when there was still a rise. Then we thought the government had neglected the income raise. Instead, they would have eaten leftovers and eaten from the refrigerator. The government did not take advantage of an opportunity at the top of the economy to earn money so that the standard of living could be adequately balanced. Even now, with a decline in economic goals, it is still difficult to do so. Now it seems that the banks that the government has found to carry these burdens are the very ones who, unfortunately, did not make enough of it and have to dry through yet another economic low, waiting for justice. I'm afraid, Madam President, that it can be quite expensive and difficult for many of these individuals. We are the richest country in the world. We should be able to arrange things so that everyone could live a pretty good life here, at least Living with dignity. It's the State's job to create these conditions. In recent years, it has been an extraordinary gift, so it would have been a unique opportunity to increase equalness and social justice. But that is why we are in many categories. We lean to the right, and we lean to the left and have a different view of these matters. In this government, at least. one group that has shared this vision with us. And most of all to him, I'm amazed and disappointed. We must simply turn away from the course we have been on, as it has been shown, but since 1998 taxes on the lowest income have increased while taxes on the highest income have decreased proportionately. There was also a big word for the last election about the need to attack the marvelous development of transport, health, education, and other things. Actually, it was most of the campaign business. Of course, people are expected not to live in everything, and some classes may be less than others, especially those who promised the most but also planned to weaken their income foundation by reducing taxes. But here, so - called economic stability has been at the expense of social equations. I don't think that's fair. Few have said that their injustices are better than theirs. Prime Minister, who spoke to Prime Minister on September 13, 2017, on permission of the president: To the people of the land. Injustice, wherever it is found in society, there is a threat of justice. Therefore, we must never slack off in our struggle for a righteous society. Waiting with righteousness is tantamount to refusing justice - as Martin Luther King put it in a famous letter. Politicians must never refer to a dominant system to support a waiting wait for justice. Politicians need to be prepared to make constant use of justice and to change the system if necessary. Otherwise, people's trust in democratic society is a threat, and that responsibility is a must for all of us. Governments should not ask poor people in Iceland to wait for justice. The current plans for the government now set out that the elderly and the elderly should continue slaving and living in shame - stricken terms. I'm gonna, Madam President, let me make those words my way today, they still apply. Sadly, even though only in many areas are truly thankable, there is little work to be done. And now the government prays for this same senator who spoke those words and gave this beautiful speech over a year ago, which she really was, the poor people waiting. The first legal process is not particularly good, yet there are compensations, which, of course, are reason to rejoice. But their criteria were based on sand from the beginning. It really came right in the day of the start of a few weeks. That, of course, does not mean for the highest. Secretary of finance talking about the Conspiracy, or individual members of the United States, speaking down and raising inflation. The gang was about to drop before the Conspiracy began to speak of it again in the late autumn. Then I'm going to pray to the highest. A minister of finance, if he so believes in the power of words, to go to his house tonight after this discussion and speak the crown again. He must be able to do that. He's more experienced in these matters than the rest of us who have spoken the crown here. Of course, when the criteria began, they were expected to respond. That is why a remarkable picture was made between 1 and 2. Um., there's been some adjustment proposals that might be associated with a reduction. Usually, adjustments are needed. When groups come to a judicial committee meeting and discuss the needs that may have been overlooked by members of the Parliament, the growth may be increasing between discussions. But there, the government took itself and dropped, maybe two, three steps back. That must be almost unique in the republican story. And talking about premiums. The officers now through 3rd. is it about to crack too, isn't it? I thought it was at least to my home bank as I checked the march, when I examined the comments of some people who know about financial matters and express themselves about financial matters, diagnostic departments, and knowledgeable persons. That is why it is very disappointing that, instead of facing the apparently missing $2 billion in order to shut down this street, the government did not attack the income raise by those who are totally able to drive them into the hole or at least. magazines to our weakest sisters and brothers. To people who can hardly carry a hand for their heads would be unfair to me. I find it shameful, and I don't believe that my political neighbors in the left green, who have spoken in exactly the same way about taxes and welfare matters as the United States, did not get up in votes and pay one of our votes. Hv. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson was traced to a very thorough conclusion by the Continent regarding this bill. In itself, I'm not going to repeat them on a long matter. However, I'd like to reiterate that the budget guarantees neither social justice nor economic stability, it seems to me. It neglects the infrastructure that we all believed that the last time we volunteered for it was possible to attack. In itself, I could talk here all day about all the groups that would need some compensation, which are waiting for righteousness, that cannot yet live a decent life. But I'm going to concentrate here on one group. I especially want to talk about our young people. That may be primarily for two reasons. On the one hand, it's the group that's left with a complete collapse. His possessions are small, and there is more to his debt. In other words, young people are in a worse position than other groups, such as the highest. As a matter of fact, the minister of finance got away from yesterday. This is the group that we have to rely on to draw the wagon here for the next few decades, to live in the country, to represent a much greater wealth potential as a result of changes in the demographics of society. In other words, it becomes more old than young ones, and these people have to take their bicycles particularly hard. Are we going to negate it in this way? Send it out in your life and not be able to e.g. So why not offer them a safe way to make a home? However, unlike us, these people are on an ideal position to move and live and work anywhere in the world. Let us not be sure that young people are going to bet in Iceland and come back if they go out and educate themselves, if we cannot work together with the factors that depend on creating them better conditions. That's where I can say the highest score. Prime Minister, there we can really achieve a broad degree of reconciliation from right to left, because many of the ways we could go do not have to be a group of political debates. In effect, housing should be just like a health and education system, something that is probably in our modern society that it should, in fact, create a long - term policy with regard to that matter. The increase in financial resources that has occurred in many populations, including I, more than most others in the country, have not returned to young people. The fact is, people under 30 have been in for quite some time. That's even. due to the high increases in real estate prices and rent prices associated with it. It has made it much smaller and worse for young people to have their own home, and it has also made it very difficult to split rent, which has become a large percentage of the wages they have to live on, whether they are student loans or wages that young people receive, taking the first steps out of the labour market. The largest part of society has experienced is an increase in real estate prices. This is because we have a concrete house or a wooden house that we owe a considerable amount of money but that has increased tremendously and that has resulted in something to be owned. However, these young people who cannot go on and not be able to own an apartment will be drawn back. There'll be a gap between us who have possessions, at least by name, and by those who don't own them. That's why I'm so surprised, Madam President, on the government's housing action. The few hundred billion who were counseled to do that were largely to fulfill commitments that included. The contracts of 2015 or 2016 were made with the labor movement, including about stock contributions. Now the 2nd. is proposed as these things are even cut down by 80 billion. K. This is in spite of the emphasis on the labor movement and the working environment on housing matters, they say that the key to possible successful landing and outcome of collective agreements is the key. Therefore, the ambition of the government is complete, both in financial and financial matters. I think this is simply the big case, and according to the labor movement and the team of industry, which can put us through the winter well and solve things there, this is the biggest interest and the greatest welfare of young people today. Housekeeping is a huge part of social stability. It is not simply about having a roof over your head and being protected from the weather and the winds. Building is primarily a matter of home safety, providing security for their children, and allowing them to grow up under conditions where they are not constantly fleeing in rent, between disappearing, from apartments, from sports to sports, from friends, and from constantly tearing them up with roots and travel between. We simply have to do better. That's where I think, the highest. Secretary of finance and Madam President, that we should be able to achieve a common landing. Therefore, in the United States, we have provided an eight - unit housing tool, which is not at all sufficient to fix these things and certainly not fix them one, two and three, there will be no suggestion. I fully understand that it is a project that needs to be accomplished in many years. But the reason we make this offer as a concierge but don't cut it down and do it differently is because we believe that there can be a government and government conflict together. This, however, requires making money, as with most things that are good and enjoyable in life. Unfortunately, this bill is lacking. We believe that there is a greater need to consider that strains that contribute to a poor business to become a sustainable tenement here in the long run. Most of the Icelanders live in their own home and will probably choose it. Everything's fine. However, the increasing share of the group wants to have greater mobility and preferring to move abroad or to another part of the country without having to be selling apartments. I don't think we'll reach the share we have, for example. In Germany, but we could reach the Norwegian ratio, which I think is 23% or 24%. It is quoted as saying that 95% of Iceland's people do not consider much of an Icelandic tenet, but they have nothing to do with renting. This has been done by an Icelandic tenet. If we look at similar studies from the North or Germany, we will see a completely different reality. People are very happy there. These suggestions also need to follow measures that ensure renters are better off. It must be ensured that all rural areas in the country maintain their commitments and have a consistent design for the construction and management of social housing. We need to implement a loan system that will ensure that people who do not have rich parents can buy their first property. There are so many things we have to do. Above all, we and the government need to be much more supportive of young people, children. Young people are the ones who are the ones who are looking for our future value. It will determine whether or not we will succeed. That is why we need to increase the rate of child damages that have not been associated with pay and money development. It simply means that children are drawn back. It's expensive to have a baby. Hence, the United States contributes 2 billion increases in child reforms to meet these families. In fact, we also add 2 billion growth improvements in order to reduce the expense of families' housing. This has often been the subject of what is often called the Fourth Industrial Revolution. In fact, it goes on insane technological advances, digital revolution, cooling of machines not only from the muscle as they did during the industrial revolution but also from the process of releasing their mind in some way. This will make our society quite different from today, and technology will change the production and way of life. To deal with this is just one way: to make an enormous effort in education that will enable us to get our feet in the world of digital technology, innovation, and other things that we may have no idea who are now. You see, these changes are very likely to result in a much faster and faster labour market change than ever before. That's the way it is with everything in the world. Everything is increasing, in fact, incomprehensible growth, but we have some image of what it is like. This world will demand that young people, of course, all people, be active in a job market, strengthen such qualities as creativity, technology, zeal, and other such things. V.E.G. The Minister of Education has spoken about this. I think she might even be interested in this. At least at the beginning of the season, she discussed the big offense I mentioned earlier. But with financial and financial contributions, there are disappointments. If we are not to be drawn back out of other nations, the power is not being given to education that would have to be done. We need to examine the figures of innovation, patents, and patent in the different parts of the world to see that Iceland, and indeed all Europe, needs everything if it's not to fall back from the growing states, such as some parts in Africa, China, Indonesia, U.S.A. Regression can cost us a lot of money. It is, in fact, amazing what high school needs to endure. They have a decrease in conversation, in fact, several million times but a decline. The colleges get only a fraction of what the OECD and the Northern countries get, despite the government contract that there is a timed goal for this. V.E.G. In fact, Minister of Education has said that we would reach the OECD target in 2020. But that's not true. There she aims to the numbers as they were in 2014. Four years have passed, and nothing is calculated into prices, nothing calculated into interest, and nothing calculated into the number of students. We're not gonna make it. Two hundred and twenty - three billion will likely be needed to reach these targets. Of course, we should set higher goals. We should put ourselves on the same side of the North. But it'll take time, I'll show you understanding because I think it just takes 11 billion right away. At least we can combine to do this because it is not an option to wait. Today's decisions are the crucial factors for future generations. Young people know that. Of course, young people are much smarter, more determined, in many matters than we are in here, including for environment and climate. These people declare that they are ready to sacrifice some standard of living, ready to change their behavior to protect the planet. So must we. But it's us who are the sand of my teeth. In fact, I can commend the government, to be done somewhere in the speech, for a certain will and ambition in climate, at any rate compared with what has happened before. But that's just saying that we simply don't have a choice. The fight against the climate is the greatest challenge facing the human race and likely that it has ever faced. So we continue to encourage the government in that direction. Still, we need to do better. We collected, for example. Just half of the expected levels of carbon pay as high as possible. The Kingdom of Bjarni son of Benediktsson proposed over a year ago - perhaps the greenest government in the history of the Republic. However, we have certainly provided suggestions for energy exchange. Of course, this is an excellent step to cope with symptoms, but we need to avoid the illness. You see, it's not enough to get your private car on an eco-friendly source of energy. We simply need to reduce its use too. It is very important to develop ambitious suggestions on sustainable urban areas. The inhabited environment is the major factor in carbon emissions in the world. There we have the opportunity to reduce carbon emissions most and to engage in a successful battle, especially in a land so unique in the global context that there are 70,000 people in one spot called the capital area. It's only Mongolia, Panama, Kuwait and Djibouti who can boast of being as much city as is really Iceland. There should be no question of taste or freedom how to build and organize. It simply requires much more infrastructure, much more expensive structure, and prevents public transportation. Why do I mention this, so that a man should enter a series of lawsuits, both of them. Environment Minister and Supreme Minister. A secretary of transportation, to be close to perfect simpleness, at least ignominiously, large donations for public transport are not to be expected, and particularly a city line here in the capital area. It is the basis for sustainable development here and the key to our ability to fulfill our commitment to climate, which we do not seem to be responding to the latest studies. I think it's an ugly message, even. to young people and low - incomeers who cannot afford to drive a private car. For example, public transportation and city lines are not just a matter of climate change but also a powerful and valuable equation and social support. This should be at least A panel of left-greens getting divorced. Of course, transportation throughout the country has been neglected, and none of us have lived up to the promise made in transport, even though this series is about the security of both the inhabitants and the potential of the scattered settlements to thrive and thrive. However, it is remarkable to consider, of the limited resources provided for transport and to cut down about 550 million. K. from last traffic, how much money is spent on individual parts of the country. So that's 19.6 billion over the next five years in the ideal minister while 1.3 billion are going to the East, it seems to me. That's what I'm going to ask the Minister in unsupervised requests. But with regard to the country. Six health institutions in the country think they need 800 million. That's not much money. But the budget and the government do not feel that they have a chance to grant the wish, which is, in fact, a basic precept for its being built in these places. Yes, it may be noted that it is possible to get to Reykjavík. It's normal in a country where so much of it lives in the same place that most of the institutions and the big hospital are here. But they need to enable people to move about. If the government can't let this 800 billion, that would be a wish. K. in medical institutions in the country, that it can make it less expensive for people to fly to the capital. The government also ensures only one fifth of what the nursing homes in the country ask for in order to provide sustainable management. And that's no fun at all. The nursing home in this country warms our oldest generation, the generation that put us in the place where we are. What's uncomfortable about this is that nursing homes are in the hands of different operators. The state runs some nursing homes, private companies have some, and communities have others. Since the state does not guarantee the nurses enough money for business, there is no other choice but to discriminate group members. A community that holds it in its arms and has to pay tens or hundreds of millions of dollars from their home business needs to take it from other things; sports; leisure activities of the elderly; culture and art. These communities will simply be in a more competitive position than those without it. So it's not fun. I kind of expect that. Senators support the changes made by the United States of America. As I said earlier, of course, there are many areas to go. I chose to set aside my case because of what I was doing. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson has done well in the field. But I can't let it go, at the end, mention the ignominious ambitions that this 11 richest nation in the world is ready to give up in development cooperation. Mankind faces huge joint challenges, and we simply have to face them together. One group that needs help is a fugitive. It is people who flee from war, poverty, and climate change, and people who live under such conditions. We aim only to match the national groups that do the best we can. In fact, I notice that in fact, the small contribution we make in developing cooperation is 80 million. K. I don't think it's easy to understand the problem, and I don't think it's a far cry from a country that accepted self - support until 1976. It is not long since the Icelanders received from common development funds. But the 11th richest nation in the world is going to make a decision because they feel that they cannot afford to help others. Madam President. Finally: I don't believe it until it's been tried by the state council, at least. Left green, won't support any of the suggestions we make here today. In the historical context, this may not be likely. But if you look at the direction, the language, the words, and the writing of the same senators as here, that must happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u120	A respectable president. Maybe I'll just start by responding to what was presented. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson, who before me spoke about developing cooperation and development aid. I think it is important to consider that developing cooperation contributions increase by 700 million per year. It is true that this aspect of conversation has been pulled down, but we are still in this 0.28% of gross national income, which was originally committed to making the budgetary bill. I think it's important that we do so in this discussion. A respectable president. We'll discuss budgets next year at 2nd. We've had five committee opinions and a few adjustments made on nine Senate documents. First thing I want to do is thank you. Congress members on a budget for their work. This shows that the committee has taken a very detailed look at the matter and has put into it a lot of time and effort, and I want to thank you for it. It is also very happy that we are here in mid - November to take this discussion, but it is a rather traditional practice that we are about a month later, in mid - December, in the final budget of the next year at the end of the year. Also, it is fun that for the first time, we may be fully applying the laws on public finances, or at least at the first times, to follow this system. The government's financial policy appeared about a year ago and was adopted in the first months of this year. The budget was released in April, and it was adopted in June, and then we are now talking about the budget. We may now be seeing this process as it should be. And we have actually been discussing government finances for almost a year. In many respects, that is a positive one. In fact, I've heard a lot of senators getting a little carried away with this, and I don't think things are good enough. I have to say, even though we don't know exactly how things were done in the past, I think that with government financial laws we have a much better tool and procedure where we are looking for a long time. Therefore, plans should be more responsible. We link them to the current scheme. This is supposed to increase our chance at the council to observe and honor our role in monitoring. I think that even though we're still changing, we're on a really good path. Under the laws on public finances, there is a set of budgets designed to promote effective management and administration of public funds, leading to increased discipline in the implementation of budgets by explaining the responsibilities and responsibilities. The policy of the Member States and the follow-up of each Minister with the legal development of lawsuits and the responsibility of management officials. Each minister is responsible and is under active control of the implementation of budgets in his field and is responsible for the provision of funds within the framework established by the General Assembly. The manager or management of the institutions of the A State Fund is so responsible for the relevant Minister for the success of the operation and for the management and management of businesses in accordance with budgets and agreement plans. It is no coincidence that I decided to use a little time of my talk to discuss this precisely, for this is extremely important. This procedure, I think, should help us with the Commission and ensure that funds are well spent, they are spent on the actions listed in the judicial policies. The section's mention shows that the committee changed its work and improved in connection with budget requests and suggestions received. The poll says, with President's permission: ▪ Before the committee took sides with them, a request was made for the minister's position and called for information on whether a request was agreed to the case's policy and whether a minister had made a contract or agreed to make a contract with the relevant party. The answers were not always satisfactory, but most part of it was designed to apply this changed procedure rather in the context of a talk presented to the committee from now on. The purpose of this modified procedure is to link financial requests more closely with policy-making policies in the relevant topic so that certain partnerships would be formed in the budget once again affecting financial updates in the spring as well as to explain the effectiveness of the changed budget in each Minister's annual report. This is very good. It may not be good to know that the advice has not always been satisfying, but I want to encourage others. The legal committee continues in this process and again emphasizes the importance of the surveillance role and, in effect, the vital role of a financial committee to represent us at the high Council. It's the law of the law for 2019 C.E. There are, naturally, conflicting views on how to apply the less than 900 billion. In fact, I feel that there is too little discussion about whether it is right that the State should have so much money to make provision. Let's leave it between parts. But the financial policy, on the other hand, binds us to the extent of our spending, at least 1%, and I think it's very important that we have that box. Then it is important to remember that we are in an amazing position ten years after a worldwide financial collapse. After a very difficult year or so soon after a collapse, we've been doing amazingly well. Here are the standards of living that are best known in the world, with little or no unemployment, with high economic growth and low inflation. It's no coincidence that this is the case with the situation. It didn't fall out of the sky. We have simply done well. Government funds have been used well to further the long - term sustainable financial situation, the debt of state funds has dropped, and large amounts of money have been paid into pension bonds. The total debt of the state has dropped by 658 billion. Over six years and as a share of land production, debt has gone from 86% in 2011 to 31% for the next year. Between the middle of 2017 and the middle of 2018, the debt of state funds has dropped by 88 billion dollars. This means that debt has dropped by 10 million an hour. Understandably, this arrangement, this great debt subsidence that, as a result, lowers our interest payments, our space to set aside money for important issues. Perhaps only in comparison: Although we have done so well in paying off debt, today the government's interest payments are still high. It's about 40 billion a year, which is similar to the amount of money we spend on communications and transportation. That's about 43 billion. In spite of this great success and a huge effort in subsidies are thus being said to be comparable to what we are spending on communications and transportation. Talk about transportation: This bill is still being given in that category, growing by 14%, and making a big increase in the last year. However, in spite of these large increases, we would have wanted to see, at least, I suppose most of us would have liked to see, even more on new roads. I will then be a member of the capital area, allowed to name the capital area, that has been the exception of the development of transport workers. I think it's necessary to look especially to the capital area in the next few years. It is essential that the root system be built, as well as the first stage of the city line. I have high hopes for the best cooperation. Transport and rural government minister has fixed the rural areas in the capital area, expecting that there will be some action plan on which routes to look for them. In this context, I think we simply need to find new ways to finance our transport systems. We need to have the courage to step out of the box we are in because we are still lacking more money in these important structures, but even more so because our income base is changing considerably with the positive steps we are taking in an electric truck. But there is not just extra money for transportation but for virtually every class of cases, and there certainly is much more to it. In fact, it is not only in this budget that costs increase but also that all major lawsuits have increased in recent years, and more money is still being called. The environment has never received so much money before, as environmental concerns are one of the priorities of the government, and I think all of us should appreciate the importance of taking decisive measures to reduce emissions and improve the status of the nation's carbon tracks. We're adding contributions to the university. They will be about 47 billion, reaching over 700 million. I take my heart to the importance of focusing on education, research, and innovation. It just needs to be our focus for the next year. I also welcome the suggestion of the greater proportion of funding to the two public schools. I think it's important. I think it's important to increase the variety of donations for education. I think what the People Colleges offer is important when you look into the future and see what young people need to know and to know and understand in the years ahead. It's not just a traditional course, as so far as college has been offered. More important, the future involves knowing how to work together, getting information, and maintaining good communication. I think these excellent people schools are working in exactly that way, and it's just as much a matter of community life as it is when it comes to this university, which is on the other side of Flatus and on the other side of the Seyver. Then there are health issues, the big group of paintings. There the increase is about 15 billion, an enormous increase. Recently, I attended a health - care assembly that was meant to be part of the way of molding a comprehensive health - care policy. I'm glad you're here. I think this is very important, because while we spend extra money on health care each year, and with very progressive measures now, it is also important that we know exactly what the money is going to go down, they are protected from the policies we want to see in this category. Clearly, this group of paintings has all the means to grow so much, almost into the infinite. Therefore, it is important to ensure the best use of funds. Then, naturally, I must introduce public health that I think is important in the light of the development that takes place. We must be ever more concerned with public health and preemptive matters. We're making a big effort in the lists. It is a challenge to build a nursing home, where there is an increase in the amount of money and the number of nurses. I agree with what is stated in the Committee's list of parts about following after the cost analysis to the nursing homes. It is simply a matter of fact that the day's expenses are not sufficient for the specific services and marketed policy here at the council and by the Ministry Regulation. That is why it is important to follow through. There is a substantial increase in the budget and, in fact, from 2010 onward. It is an excellent picture here on page 18. 14 of the Committee's Committees, more than a fraction of the budget that shows 30 billion dollars. the increase in budgets since 2010. It also says in the Commission opinion, with permission of the president: ▪ Energy pensioners increased by 2,615 over a period of six years, or 17%. Even though this trend is expected to slow down and with a annual increase of 1.9% in average to 2030, it is quite unchanged that disability improvements increase from 41 billion dollars. This year, for about 90 billion bucks. In the year 2030. The overall development in this country is not an isolated event, but the integration, rehabilitation, and sectoral development of disability should be considered, and it is likely, for example, an experience and results in the North countries. The causes of increased disability are primarily mental and musculoskeletal disorders, as well as demographic changes. This is a matter that we need to examine fully, especially in view of the lower number of births, and there are always fewer and fewer working hands to live up to the welfare system. That's why I think it's extremely important for the Ministry of Health to complete their own suggestions as soon as possible and that we're getting into a major system change in this topic field. Indeed, our well - being system must be built up in such a way that it will catch up with all those in need. But it also needs to be so that we can help others with self - help and that when they get out of sickness, they have the opportunity to get a job that is fitting. So, of course, there should be a reward for that. But at the same time, we need to make sure that money is spent to those with the most needed help. This is a balance that we have to meet in some way, and it is our job to deal with it. Then I'd like to remind you of what I said before about human health, rehabilitation services and prevention, how they play into this amazing fact about the growth of micromaths taking place here. With regard to older people's affairs, I'm going to be allowed to refer here to the station on page. 15 showing the development of expenditures for the cause of the elderly, which is about 49 billion dollars. A real increase from 2010. It's 10% in those years. Consider, too, that today there are 4.7 individuals of their working age prior to 65 years and older, while in 2050 they have grown to about 2.7. So it is important to make sure that funds are well spent in this category as well as others. We need to ensure sustainableity as we have been doing by paying off pension commitments and building a pension system. It is possible to continue. Family business. There is an increase of 4.6 billion based on the priorities and emphasis the government has placed on family affairs. It is primarily a child's request. It would be possible to continue for a long time. However, I would like to combine this with another matter, which is not a great deal of concern but under environmental circumstances. It's suggested 180 million. K. the use of development projects by Strulling Steep, which is based on the separation of irrigation systems in local buildings, to use so - called black water for the demolition of Holisa. This is a very important matter, and a Skull's scare has been coming to us for a considerable time. I'd like to reiterate what I've already said from this platform, whether it's a common reason to view this group. He is a member of the rural community, and I would like to look to all of your wastes, how we thought of sorting garbage, recycling, incineration, gas generation, or whatever. I have wondered if it would be wise to view this matter collectively, so it would be on the shoulders of the State rather than on the local community. We would rather look forward to other close - up services, such as making the affairs of older citizens, being heard under rural societies rather than by the State. This may be a small thing for me, but I still wanted to use the opportunity to mention it. There have been many talks held today and most of the programs have been reviewed, but I would like to, in few words, to finish my speech by saying that I am proud of this financial bill. I'm proud of the work the budget has done in the last few weeks. In recent years, we have achieved remarkable success in government affairs, and we are an incredibly fortunate nation. That's not what I'm saying. This is where we've taken care of everything that needs attention. This is where everyone lives. We still have work to do in that area, and we need to take special care of weak groups, such as to form microsurgents, as I did earlier. It is absolutely necessary to make a system change and to make sure that we help others to self - help. Despite this great success and debt, from the time I attended a council, we have constantly increased our government spending. This is good in many ways, for we spend money on very important wood and service. But let us also look for ways to increase expenses for these issues. It is slowing down the growth of interest, and we have lived through a tremendous rise in life and have achieved tremendous success in paying off debt and spending money on important projects. But we need to be alert to the best use of money. We also need to look at the system's economy and how new technologies and developments can help us to render good service to less resources. We need to look to electronic administrations and how such solutions can be used in welfare services, and so on. But I'm not going to be one of those who make their full speech tonight, because I know there are many after me who also want to get in and have something to say. I'd like to put an end to this: I think we sometimes forget that in this hall how lucky and fortunate we are, this nation, how very successful we have been. Of course, various tasks remain unacquainted.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u121	A respectable president. The concluding words - a lucky and lucky nation - I want to associate only with them. A senator said that it was no coincidence that we were here, that we had done so well. I'll totally agree with that, but why we're here, with that opportunity like that. To have paid off debts and other things, it can inevitably be attributed to events that neither we nor the government had any control, that some foreigners would visit, e.g. Tourists and mackerel, at a very critical time in Iceland's economy. No government policy expected so much travel. It was never in the picture. Of course, visitors were encouraged to come here, but they were never expected to do so much. It worked very well, of course, and perhaps on bad terms, because we were in a downturn, and then the currency was in some kind of bad condition that helped. That may have meant the very bad luck. I'm not going to say, though, that the reason we had a crash was bad luck. It's kind of unfair to say that. But it took at least that's the case. Hv. A senator also spoke of the capital area with regard to transportation, and I would like to agree with it. It's interesting to hear sometimes when a minister or another member of the Environment and Transport Committee comes a little late, because there was so much traffic in the A Twelfon River. You might wonder: " What should I do about it? Well, a transport plan might help with that. Today, a team on the city line project was due, and I heard that it was trying to postpone a decision about the Sunship, and if there was a discussion here, I would appreciate it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u122	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. Our tourists, the mackerel, including those who traveled into Icelandic waters, yes, there are many things that played with us, but I think we've done well because we've made good use of our opportunities. This is not to say that the independent party I work for or the government at any given time was so presumptuously diligent and deserved all of this. Actually, I'm talking about the Icelandic people. I am no less referring to the individuals who conducted intelligent and pioneer operations, open tourist companies, find ways to sell ash in a jar, trips to tell fairy stories, or what it is. Actually, it is the nation that has accomplished this amazing achievement. That's the country's hard work. Yet, it is important to pave the people for their national delinquency. We've done a great job, and I'm sure we've done well, and I don't think I'm going to give it to someone in particular. It didn't fall out of the sky. Yes, the mackerel came here, but let's also see how well the seabed companies have done well in the past few years finding ways to use their products fully. Almost nothing goes to waste. There are all kinds of interesting innovation companies that have originated around it, whether to use a rose or a bone range, to make supplements, or even to others. That's what I'm talking about. It is important that governments create the framework that encourages people to do exactly these things. Small and medium-sized companies are most important to us in our jobs, and I believe that we should look especially at innovations, small and medium-sized enterprises and create the framework so that people can thrive and develop these ideas. I'd like to cover the city line and the next time, I'd like to take a turn.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u123	A respectable president. I'm going to add some questions. The result of cooperation? Absolutely. I often describe it like the handball, we usually work best out of a bad position. That's how we win the most beautiful victories. Only to the straggility ratio as a dog. A senator mentioned. We are down to 2.7 working in senior citizens 2050 or so, and it is government policy that the growth rate in the terms, really in the national stocks, does not change anything, i.e. how many school - age and older are opposed to those who work for a living. It's supposed to remain, that's government policy, and I'd like to know how to reach that goal if this is the case, from 4.7 to 2.7 or whatever it was. Also, I would like to hear just an opinion. A senator's request, as she spoke of from a leading committee, to a committee sent to a minister and the answers, in fact, no answers that were answered by a financial committee. There were answers, but as they were said, they were not at all satisfying. In spite of this, even though we have no idea whether a minister would really finance that project or not if the General didn't do anything, a financial committee is making the decision to finance various projects. We do not have a breach on the expenses that a minister intends to spend. If we do not have the disunition and are still financing these requests and do not know whether a minister is going to finance these projects or not, are we perhaps making a double amount of money? Then the General Assembly will add, but the secretary can use the money he was going to get on the job anyway, if the General didn't do anything, to something else we have no idea what to do about it. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask you what. A senator is whether it's the proper use of public funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u124	A respectable president. I'll start at the back, at the sheep's request. Where it is. A senator on a financial committee knows better how these matters have been handled. I had the privilege of entering a deputy council member in 2005, then entering the budget and seeing what a financial committee was up to. That was $300,000. the strength to choir on Eastern Europe or 500,000 kroners. to some museum on the West. We're talking about this kind of money and stuff. Sitting in the big budget, they received virtually all the people of the country with their prayer letter. I say, our government-finance procedure is that these are set up as benchmarks, that we have tables for action, and we know who the executives have improved. I'm sure you can make this better. I think that's what it's like. A senator is referring, and I support him in his work. Workin' hands? I can't quite figure out what it is. A senator is talking about the policy of the government, but I think it's one of the major projects we face, the aging of the nation. We need to ask ourselves, " Is it not normal to allow people to work longer if they want to? ' We too are healthier as we grow older. Perhaps we need to consider that more immigrants are coming here. We may need to be encouraged to have more children. That's at least Things that need attention. It's my favorite car pass case. I did not know that the committee was due to be produced today, but I think it is of utmost importance that the Council's Transport Committee, the Fundament Committee, and the Parliament's members listen to their rural communities, since local communities in the capital area have already worked many years to expand the development of the capital area. A number of experts have been consulted, and this case has been a parapolitic reconciliation. Part of this trend is about the growth of public transport with something called a city line. [[The president calls.]] It's just sense, this is the way we feel to make the best of our money. This does not mean that it is the only solution, but it is a large part of the solution and we do not solve transportation in the capital area any different from the growth of public transport and city line. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u125	Mr. President. I'm going to use my speaking lesson to discuss some of the classes I'm most interested in, review the changes that have taken place between budget 2018 and the current budget, etc. I start with transportation, where there is an increase of about 12% in transport that everyone should consider to be very positive, as far as it goes. This slow recovery is apparent after the collapse, with the 160 billion in the budget that needs to be added to the seminary by some means, better if possible. They need to be found, I call them social ways to find extra money to make things better. It is obvious when visiting guests, e.g. ... withan environment and transportation committee, a huge package is waiting for us. I never got tired of reminding you that we have 12,000 miles of what we can call a road, and half is a real road to be careful and built up quickly. This is an enormous task in a country with only about 350,000 inhabitants. It takes a lot of the same thing to set a good road in Finland and Iceland and a lot of things together. It is a big project, and whether one wants to call it a parish or a big offense, it has been a very positive development. Another thing I'd like to do on transportation is the public transportation that was discussed earlier. Now it is to ensure that there will be some global transport system in 2019 on the roads of the rural community. It's a real joy. The entire arrangement is also being revised. When it comes to public transportation, the word "power of reason " can be applied somewhere. However, this is a period of one year and then a review that will definitely lead to a stately public transportation in this large country. Everything in that category is only a minor impairment, and I think it is very good in view of the economic fortunes we face, even though our contractions are not great. In foreign affairs, I want to stop developing cooperation. There's a 6.2% raise between the budget years. The target remains 0.7% of the gross domestic income, and the development has been positive since 2013 at 2.2 billion, more than 0.23% of the nation's income, and then 2017 at 7.3 billion, 0.28%. The objective is that 2020 will be to 0.35 or half of what is really acceptable after all. So we are halfway there, and of course we can afford to stand beside other wealthy countries in that regard. I remind you there are a wide range of ways in which you would like to draw attention to a new indicator of development policy development, i.e. that the applications of partners and companies in a special fund will be possible for new steps in developing cooperation. There are certain conditions to set, and I'm not going to discuss them, but new things are being brought up that hopefully promote this work. When it comes to research and science in the university field, the figure is 3.8 billion and the increase is 12%. The total increase to college is just over 700 million, as noted by what happened. A speaker before me. Each of us agrees that they need to increase in their next budget year, and it is a special task to find ways that this can be done. Contestation funds and innovations. They are kept in focus, especially with increased donations, in the initial proposal of the budget or the budget. The decrease in some joints there, however, amounts to an increase of several percent in that category as far as I can see. Of course, because innovation is the key to the economy, as everyone knows, and doesn't have to be reenacted. I'd like to mention one happy addition, which is a tax deduction from corporate contributions to innovation and evolution. It is added to it a billion, so it is not as if these matters are not being planned in a positive way. Mr. President. I'm just gonna step on the energy issues. The budget contains about 4 billion for provision. This, then, is a management board and a special project to be carried out. This is a 2.3% increase. What's it going to go to? The power's supposed to speed up. As everyone knows, it's a very important policy of development. Long-term energy policy, one of the key elements of climate policy, is to be completed. It's supposed to increase energy security, i.e. improve transport systems. Therein comes an increased geostringization. As everybody knows, this is a growing problem, i.e. Poor energy security due, in part, to the transportation system, and to the satisfaction of it being put into money. Another factor, perhaps a small matter, is activated below 10 MW, which is designed to promote either the field of research or the environment. It is very important that we do not forget the assessment of environmental impacts of action, although this is not mentioned in a budget. I mention it because so far, they've escaped the continuum transfunctioner, unless it has been specifically requested or asked for by the recruiter. It is very important for humans to remember this because 9.9 MW activation is not a small activation, even if we use that word. It is a heat pump industry, an important development project for development, and it may then be one of the most important of all to continue to support energy exchange in accordance with the effectiveness programme. There are also many solutions, such as those found in so many. There will not be many steps taken without the cooperation of the government, corporations, rural society, and the public. In climate, no one really believes that the official, as this is called, is a gift for everything but is enjoyed by others. This is a task that everyone must combine to handle. There are many energy - related tasks that need both discussion and funding to push evolution forward. I'll mention energy, or in this case, the manufacture of domestic energy. The need to focus on not only electricity but also on fossil fuels for transport. Whether it is an alcoholic, a spirit of life, hydrogen, or anything else, it is important that the State come in there with considerable force. Both wind and sea power are being explored. There are, of course, projects that are primarily at probe level and regular work and financial resources are not in and will be missing in advance. Then there are new projects on the earth, both low temperature and deep - seated, as well as related tasks. I think that the government is doing it all well and has a correct understanding, despite my being a left-green senator who could see an increase in funding and speed in front of the world as it has evolved. But I can enjoy it for now. Finally, I'm going to step aside just from a mixture of environmental and tourism. For the transport services themselves in the budget, the main focus is to management and specific projects, an increase of 200 billion. At least a 9% increase. So there are 2,3 billion for provision. What are they going to go to? It's under the travel, industrial, and innovation secretary and should undergo tolerance analysis that I don't get tired of climbing. It's not only that Iceland as a tourist country has its challenges but Iceland has its limits, e.g. Aviation passengers also have their tenacious boundaries. Tolerance is, as everyone knows, both natural, social, and economic. It is obvious that when society's endurance reaches its limit, it is impossible to accept endless numbers of tourists and endless numbers of airplanes. There is a strength to the market room that, as everyone knows, is a very important structure. It is an improvement and construction of destinations in the region, another of which is a very high structure. There are additional contributions for research in tourism, which is very important. There is a review of the order of travel, which is also very important, and there is talk of a travel agency and a travel management center and other changes in the water. As everybody knows, they also belong to the Environment and Resource Ministry. There's a great deal of environmental effort. In nature, additional donations are made up of 18%. For monitoring, additional donations are 9 percent. Waste resources increase by 22%. In fact, a recession to the natural climate is about six projects being under and for them to need less money than expected, that is the explanation for the contractions and the reduction in parts of the change in market management. So there's no big harm there. However, whatever the cost range for new projects $1 billion and 320 million and other projects that have already been funded continue to be won. Let me mention some of those assignments. There are 80 million people and 354 million to work on a national structure program for protecting nature and cultural memory. I'll give you 250 million. K. an extension to work according to a climate control programme, i.e. forestry, land healing, and recovery of wetlands, and I'm going to name 60 million. K. in a so - called new climate fund. In fact, there are other good things to be found there. It is a plastic and plastic waste action plan, which is just an example of the wide variety of involvements between public, rural society, business and the state together. Then there is a great joy to see that there is an increase in the number of terms of peace. As a result, we can conclude that environmental issues are taken firmly, although higher budgets could be seen. The cooperation between parties and some sort of organization in that subject is necessary, as I have previously noted, and there is a high priority in government policy and activities. I can also criticize a certain point. I am disappointed that certain extra contributions are not being made to a local nature clinic. There's eight of them. The budget is down by 45 million. True, it is 16 million. K. Work progress, but it's better to do it. Similarly, I would have liked to be who I am to improve in forestry, agriculture, and wetlands. Mr. President. Nevertheless, my opinion is that there is no painful reduction in donations. There is no Ministry to be overlooked by participating in the contractions of spending, in fact, hardly up to 1◯, so that contraction is low, regardless of the standard for which one wants to use. Thus, when it comes to the Environment and Resource Ministry, some 127 million can be cut down and a large part of it can be seen as a result of being added to water drainage funds, i.e. It turns out to be something more expensive than man expected, but something of enormous importance is that, as everyone knows, there are special situations where action is needed. The money is fine in my opinion, and we are returning to the community in steps of what was lost by collapse. I've always thought of it as the main purpose of this government, apart from the climate. So these are serious financial benefits, in accordance with the economic forecasts and the most economic expenditures possible without any major campaigns being made for the acquisition of new incomes that would not be enough for them to fit within these budgets.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u126	A respectable president. I've been looking forward to a little talk about climate, and thank you very much. A senator for referring to them in his talk. Certainly, we have a bit of relative sizes here, 15 to 15 of the world is e.g. Not little at all. Let's just get back to this huge project, the climate. We got an introduction on a transport and environment committee where we were informed we didn't reach the other phase of the Kyoto Protocol and even have to pay, in the rough schedule we got, 12 to 20 billion a year, but the numbers were very misleading. This is what you could shoot at in enough accurate interpretation. We've got a million tons to tackle. This cost was 5,000 tons for 2030. Now we are funding this first strategy of action that is not costed or evaluated. The actions are not appreciated. We do not know how any action will be affected. In this way, it is a little difficult to choose which operation to finance to achieve the most effective results. Perhaps we know about that, but it's not yet known for us senators, to decide how much we should finance this seminary when we see up to the expense of 12 in such a long time. So I'd like to hear from it. Of course, a senator's challenge to the fact that a climate action plan should be precisely measured and valued, just as financial laws do. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u127	Madam President. Big job, huh? Yeah, a lot. And the Kyoto Protocol? Yeah, a lot. But I'm so simple that I just say, "It's only our fault if it happened, because when we left after 2008, we were already sinning, i.e. as we begin to prepare ourselves to be late for small activities, and there is no group, if we can say so, will escape that responsibility. If it costs us any fines, it's just that. You crossed onto red light. However, this remains to be seen, and perhaps we are able to reduce the emissions of less than 2 million tons by 2030; these are 40% of 5 million, and 700,000 tons can be written on transport, followed by 110,300,000 tons on the rest of the economy. I think it's possible. But let's talk about the success rate. Yes, it would be good to do so, and in the next 12 years, why not? This is absolutely correct criticism. Of course, we need to assess what we are doing to adjust our actions. But because of our situation, we need to do two things at once. We need to act, even if that is the premise that it is not fully appreciated or that we call it, starting with a measure of success. This is so that once you're in a crisis, you have to be able to ride two horses, if not more.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u128	A respectable president. I'm just gonna separate Pirata from the accusation that it was somehow our fault. We simply did not exist in 2008. In terms of action programmes, we can see at this cost. We are going to 6 billion in this period of financial planning, and we see at the expense of 1,250 billion a year, if I understood our guests right, and it is a tremendous challenge to scratch with 6 billion in five years. We will see up to that cost, and then the question is, Should we not rather take advantage of that cost to achieve our goals instead of paying it for later interest?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u129	Madam President. Yeah, well, there's more than the Piratars, there's other classes at the council, but of course I didn't mean them. I was referring to the people who did this in their time. But anyway, there may well be some particular billions of dollars to be expected in the next few years. But now government budgets are adjusted every time, both projects and maybe changes in the economy, changes in the economy. I view it as a matter of life's seriousness. I'm expecting that as the time limit approaches and we have to deliver these items, Congress and government will respond properly, as well as businesses, communities, and others. No doubt there is a need for additional funds, and we can do so by raising unpopular taxes, such as carbon taxes. We know he's unpopular. We know who else will bite, etc. There are other ways too. Other types of collection can be used for e.g. electric cars or anything else, it's a different kind of taxation. I simply trust that because of the seriousness of the situation and because there is a somewhat parapolitic basis for responding to climate events, this project can be solved. But I don't have any magic solutions in a minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u130	Madam President. When the available budget bill came to the 1st. I reasoned that if you could describe the development of GDP in recent years with a single word, it would most likely be best to use the word "finishment. " So it is odd to witness a riot or an uproar that has occurred here after it was reported that more of the legal committee was more than trying to lighten the fuel supply than to take a steady step as many here would like to do. There are even accusations that, contrary to the facts, they are being cut down and turned to their heads. The budget bill will be followed by the changes made by more than a part of the budget committee will be straddled expenses for over 33 billion dollars. higher next year than this. In particular, more money is being made to the welfare of this government. If we look at the budget that goes up here year after year, we'll have expenses to cover up about that. 220 billion higher next year than 2015. This is a 38% increase over five years. If we look back to 2012, the increase is more than 50%. I realize there are some who do. Councilmen who insist on an even greater increase in expenses. Then, some of those who call for additional expenses turn around and accuse the government and the government groups not to keep their financial resources to the limit. Sometimes I feel as if it's about to become a special goal to increase government spending, so that we here can pat one another on the back, that we have become a special measure of success at the council, how much we're adding to the state's expenses. Hence, we do not dwell on what good things or services we are receiving for the money we contribute, which is the common wealth of all of us. You see, it's fine that we remind ourselves here, at least. From time to time, we're managing the financial resources of employees and companies. It is normal for the public to insist that we at least We spend this money as wisely as we can, and we get as much as possible for them. This tremendous increase in expenses I mentioned earlier, 38% in the last five years and more than 50% since 2012, has been possible because we Icelanders have done quite well, in fact, better than most other countries in recent years. Despite these vast increases in spending, it has been a success to pay off the debt of state funds. In fact, it is quite remarkable that this huge increase in spending has not caused the economy to have a solution. On the contrary, we have been able to secure stability over long periods of time and more stability than we have experienced in recent decades or at least as long as I can remember. I simply doubt that any nation has succeeded in raising its pay expenses in the way that has been done and at the same time ensures a pay raise of over 40%. That is an accomplishment we should have in mind and conduct.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u131	Maybe the Romans of old.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u132	It could be, hey. Senator. You remember more in time than I remember. In spite of this, the contribution of the Kingdom Fund has been positive, positive in the coming year and in good harmony with what we have decided and put the lines into both financial and financial agendas. In this regard, it is worthy of commendation. The budget and the majority of the legal committees for taking care of these points, for us to follow what we have decided, to follow the policy set out in financial and financial policies. When it comes to the establishment of the State, the State's Fund, our position, whether of debt or of jealousy in most nations, is much better than any other peoples know, at least The ones we compare with. But it doesn't change that the expansion that has taken place over the past few years can't go on indefinitely, we'll run into a wall sooner or later. And it is also quite clear that it will try in the coming year to our destination, and I claim that it is the first time that the law of public finance will actually be tested in this respect. I believe it's worth our consideration. I'm one of those who had thought that we had to consider making a new thought when it comes to making a decision about expenses and how we organize the government. We need to go to the streamline of the Kingdom. We must begin to recognize that it is not just our duty in this council hall to ensure enough money to run a common health and education system and build up the road. Rather, we must also make sure that the funds that flow into these important categories and that we agree on being new. We must also resist the temptation to try to solve the problem by simply increasing our expenses.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u133	... taxes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u134	Yeah, that's right. That's right. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, that we can always raise our taxes until taxes don't give us any more. Men have tried it, and have stumbled onto a wall in that matter. You see, in this, like everything else, it is the moderation that is the Golden Rule in taxes as well as expenses. The blood supply is a source of goodness. But we need to focus not only on making wise use of our money, our shared money, but also on the assets we have invested in it. I've claimed that the state, the government's treasure, was tied up in property, and that they were not making the same use of what they would do if they were placed on other common assets. This applies to e.g. to take advantage of the government's belongings, which are confined to terminals or on land, many real estates; to use them further and change them. In schools and transportation systems. I realize that in this hall, there is a harsh opposition to this and the idea that certain possessions of the State can be transformed into other possessions that may be useful to the people of the land in a more reasonable and better way. In this regard too, we need to keep in mind that we need to set up long - term investment policies for the State. As long as we do not, it is very difficult to see whether our investment needs in important social infrastructures, whether in the health, education, or transportation systems, are real. Long - term government investment policy is not available, but that does not change the fact that many have tried to measure it, and we know that we are in debt there. You're right. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson said earlier today, there may be two types of debt. I think I used to have a word here earlier in the winter when it was dark. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear on those lines. It is true that on the one hand there are the financial debts of the State, but then there are other debts in which we did not cultivate investments in social infrastructure. It has been estimated that in the coming ten years, the need for investment, government, and rural society is at least 500 billion, collected, and new investments. Minimum. If this is true, it is 50 billion a year. And I think there may be evidence to support the increased need for investment when it comes to the health and transportation system. I think it's time to bring this up. I think it's right that we begin our discussion that, in the context of each year's budget, and I'm not talking about a five-year financial plan, we're making detailed investment plans, not some sales, but detailed investment plans that determine what and why. I view it as our duty when we make a decision on expenses to make sure that the funds are used as practical as possible and that we receive the best service that can be provided for the money we are going to make in that service or business. I think it's necessary that we do this before we, for example, do this. So we ask ourselves, " Shouldn't I just raise taxes? ' The easy answer is to raise taxes. I realize it's harder for us here to get into the state business and try to make sure that it's streamlined and as practical as possible. That's the hard way. The effective method is to contribute 26 billion tax increases in the years to come. When we look at the last few years, the government's income will be paid in the coming year with an insurance bill. 290 billion more than five years ago. To that end, it is necessary to increase taxes further and to make further money. This is true before they answer the question: Do the funds we have been making and raising our expenses become available in a way that is reasonable and normal? A $290 billion increase in income is equal to over 800,000. To every Iceland That is, in view of what was five years ago, 2015, that is, five years apart. This tremendous increase in income is believed to indicate that the government shows a unique inability to earn money and that the state's income institutions are useless. I just think that they're flourishing and that's why they're making a lot of money. Madam President. I told you before we had to introduce a new thought. This new position of government requires that we, as elected representatives in the name of the common people, make increased demands for the heads of state and state of government that they are employed, efficient, and productive. The objective is by no means to diminish our ministry. The goal is to improve and improve its quality. However, as soon as we do this, and as we face the task of establishing long - term investment policies, it is vital that we consider the future in other matters. Clearly, we have the prospect of making decisions, some of which may be difficult, especially if we are driven. I have noted more than once in this public discourse and elsewhere that we are confronted with a changed demographic of the nation, and we can say in some way a more practical way. The proportion of people who are 67 years of age and older is increasing from 12% to 19% in 2040. By that time, the number of senior citizens will be 76,000. In 260 this ratio will be 22% and a number of older citizens in 97,000. Six years later, the older citizens become 114,000. Starting in 2053, according to the high standards of the Habitat people of work age, i.e. 20◯67 years of age, more than younger ones have to be fed. For the first time in the history of the country, the number of seniors outside the workplace is still higher than those under 20 years of age. In other words, there are increasing numbers in labour markets. We must face the fact that in recent years we have failed to cope with the incidence of disability. We need to recognize that the medical system and we here have not been able to help people, people with mental or musculoskeletal problems, who are unable to participate in the workforce. So the system has failed. If we do not invest in preoperative activities, the rate of disability will continue to increase, as we have seen in recent years. If the trend becomes the same as it has been and taking into account that birth rates have been reduced, taking into account the change in population age composition, and taking into account that we are in no pensional age, there will be more non-work markets in 260 than we are participating in them. To make this harder, however, the good news is that the average life span of us Iceland is getting longer and our health is getting better. Since 1970, the mean duration of life in men has increased by 9.1 years and in women by 6.2. We live longer and have a better life. It's a pleasure, but it's a challenge. The reason for this is because it's going to affect government funds in the years and decades to come. If we do not make decisions today, how will we react? We are faced with this, and we must, and by no means, raise our pension age in the years to come, and that is relatively fast. If my memory does not betray me in 2016, it was decided that it would not go back to 70 years in 24 years. So I criticized them that they had gone too far. I thought it would have to go up to 70 years in 12 years. It's been two years of this 12. In fact, I think we need to increase our pension rate even more in the next 24◯25 years, probably 72 or 73 years. We may need to start to wonder if there is automatic reassessment, considering people's life span and health so that they will be longer, the ratio between the period in the job market and outside the job market, at school, or as a man who has completed a career and is committed to retirement must remain pretty constant in the decades to come. I think it's a decision we won't help ourselves to make. Failure to do so may result in an enormous increase in Kingdom funds in the years to come. As I took steps earlier, we are faced with the need to invest in preventive and life - style diseases. I think it may be an investment rather than an investment. It may be the most profitable investment we can make. Madam President. In some respects, this project may be easier than five, six, seven, eight years ago, making it easier for the state funds to be strong, easier because we have taken tremendous steps when it comes to welfare expenses in recent years. It's clear that we have, for example. from 2010 on, I'm talking about health, social, housing and insurance, social security, about 158 billion, real value. Only for that money could the whole high school of the country be run for five years. That's how we do it. But it doesn't change the other thing, Madam President, that the thing I'm talking about here is that we can't escape it. As we draw it longer, the harder it will be to make a decision. Madam President. I think most of the things I was going to talk about are here. The red thread in what I'm saying is that it is not permissible in my mind to go further in the increase of government spending to the rest of the way. Today, in the years and decades to come, the task is to consider taking advantage of the money better and more wisely than we have ever done. We need to make real demands to all those who have government funds and are trusted to run public institutions that are important to us, whether they are schools or health institutions, to use them wisely, and to get the services we expect to be rendered.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u135	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. It involves a number of very necessary matters and the need for attention. There's a mention of what we're talking about. A senator feels that it is a special goal to increase the budget and that we need to make demands on how public funds are used and to test future government laws. But I would like to say that now government laws are under pressure. These financial laws do not meet official financial laws with regard to what is right. A senator is calling for, the goals, the results, the measurable policies, and the actions. How's it feel? A senator seeing this budget based on what he now seems to be doing for the future? I can see no better than that we want exactly the same thing, but I'm criticizing the budget now for being just completely empty of the goals that may go. There's a senator calling for it. The amount of money submitted is not even fully explained. The request is about 4 billion, but it does not tell us how to use it. When we get an explanation of how to use the cost vector, it'll match from one Ministry, all down to 0. Great. Then comes the next ministry and adds up, and all of a sudden it's down to minus. What are we going to agree to here? This is a number of examples, where the funds are either in plus or in minus. Pirates contribute exactly that amount of expenses, i.e. The desired data and are not explained, about 8 billion, are just dropped. What do you think? A senator about that?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u136	Madam President. First, just when I said earlier, that in the years to come, the law on government finance would be tested, I think I said that I was talking about the survival goals in that regard. Of course, the law on public finances has been tested since they took effect, but I'm talking about the first time that this will be tested because I think we've come to that end. And we need to be careful. How's it feel? A senator with the law? asked. Well, the honest answer is: If someone in the councilroom thinks that the budget bill would look like this if I were to hire alone, that it would look the way it does, they don't know what I am. Of course, there are some things that I would like to have in other ways, but that's the way it is, and it's what may be really nice in this chamber that we naturally need to take into account certain viewpoints. We need to communicate, and I've tried to do so, taking into account various right - to - do views. I may be able to have doubts about my reason, but they're right. The government's focus is on welfare. There is evidence of this because the economic events we passed through were very close to the welfare system, the health system, the insurance system, etc. The restoration that has taken place during the past few years is going well, and the more important things are going on, continuing and improving, and building up again. Senator. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u137	A respectable president. All classes praised the last election and the last election to begin building up exactly. Well, that's fine. Only to protect more parts, as little as possible. A senator said it was a relief of the gas supply, I'd like to say that these orders come naturally from the government. A financial committee added another package that was not filling the fuel supply. Then there are accusations of failure. Yeah, the promises, there's a difference. Four billion were promised, and that promise is being cut down to have it so accurately. There are other challenges for the first time in government law, not just the economic goals. A senator rightly points out. It is, I believe, a little technical what a timeline it is now under government law, how we deal with funding now and the next financial program. This is the first time we have reached the first year of our government financial legislation. That's ridiculous. It's something else. A senator said that improved the quality of the services of my money. It means nothing more than innovation. There's not much of a new creation strength in the budget. I have to say right now. I don't think anyone can really object to that. A little bit, then, about the level of money gain, huh? A senator spoke of a tremendous increase in money, 40%. I'm asking, "Who is the source of this increase in money?" She's a young person, isn't she? Is she a tenant? I believe that in recent years, the increase in money gain has been relatively miscommunicative and that the increased financial resources that some have received may have disappeared in increasing prices or rent prices or other things that we should do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u138	Mr. President. I just agree with what. paritaprevir The Björn by Leví, the son of Gunnarsson, that we need to consider more carefully the development of a government. I also want to go further and say, "Hey, we're accepting e-mails. We're filming a new operation for all kinds of government services, then the fees due to be met, i.e. those who take advantage of it, whether it is a parting company or get passports, etc. I think we need to discuss how we're going to make sure that the public is allowed to gain more financial advantage in the government. Then another point, perhaps I should have spent some time earlier in my talk, i.e. That there is something strange about us to discuss solely expenses instead of discussing the context of expenses and income bills and the goals, however. Senator, right on. [[Set forward: And your goals.]] So in many ways, I hate to be tearing apart the budget bill, which is a bill, and on the other hand, the income bills that are available. Maybe it should be the other way around. We're on the Economic and Business Committee, my partners here in the room sitting there, are behind, we're going to do that job. And something's in the country, even if there's been some income bills. One of the things that, however, are being discussed in the Economic and Business Committee is just a tax-based action to promote innovation, not in the state of state, but in private companies. [[The president calls.]] I know why. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson will support that matter with integrity.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u139	Mr. President. We'll discuss the budget bill before 2019. I've been keeping a close eye on the subject today, which is about a lot of interesting things. Interestingly, the criticism of the bill varies greatly according to the source of it, i.e. from each side or group of the government they come. Either the government is criticized for not taking a good job in various groups of subjects or for being too wasteful and spending too much and not showing enough restraint. It's that way, and it may not be strange, considering that the government is unusual, and we also have an unusual position of government. The government is unusual in that it consists of classes that in the typical Icelandic sense would not have felt likely to join one government, i.e. it actually covers all the differences in the political cover, or at least all the differences in the traditional political cover, and, on the other hand, the political opposition that can be said to refer to all the differences in the political cover and perhaps to some extent also, if you can talk about it, the unconventional spectrum. Here we go. This is because there are groups in the government that have not wanted to define themselves on the political spectrum and/or those who may still be feeling a little on that level. This has been very interesting to listen to. Mr. President. There are some facts in these budgets that even people have been trying to avoid, you have had a feeling on chapters, e.g. has been placed here in a church hall that some kind of cuts are being done in the budget, that they are being reduced. In reality, though, it is not that way at all. These budgets and budgets of the current year are considerably higher than those of the previous few years, with an increase of some 90 billion. It would have had at some point been a story to the next town that the government was adding so much. In this context it can be said that the highest category. Prime Minister Katrín Jakobsdóttir to lead the last election, or, yes, we promised to say, we promised somewhere in the range of 40 billion plus/minus for an increase in expenses. This government is well beyond that, and the government has actually exceeded all the promises made by all the classes during the time of the election. Now it can be said that the government was fortunate in the external situation, at least When we were starting, we were relatively favorable, but it doesn't make any difference that we're making significant improvements in the state business and the real increase, the overall increase in real life, is over 4% between the years. There's no smartass. That is an enormous amount of money and will be of great importance to the inhabitants of the land. There's one thing that's bothered me a little about the budget and budget, that's this relatively stiff box that the state policy and financial plans put on the budget. That, for example. that the floor of a national budget, which says at 1% change, is like this, I would call hard, making it harder for the government at any given time to react, to form, as it happens today, to make changes that occur between a national project and a 2nd bill. This is very uncomfortable, and if you think about it with some sense of reason, this is a requirement for the government that if she is going to have some room to deal with it, she will actually have to put up with a budget bill that in the fall, with probably somewhere between 1.33/4.1.4%, in order to meet changes that might make a national project. Of course, an optimistic government could always play entirely with one percent, but in the long run it may not be the wisest option, but it is something that may even be. Left greens pointed out when the government law was given back, that it might be difficult. If I don't misinformedly, the discussion has already developed with financial and financial policies that it would be wiser to allow some kind of break in that number. Perhaps there is something that the council should consider that, as for the film now, where budgets are presented with almost smooth 1% leftovers, they do not really offer any change, at least not to the inferior of national interests. But more specific on the bill. There are significant improvements in health issues, and these are other legal requirements where this is done. From the start of the current government, the increase to the health case is probably just over 13% in that brain, i.e. extreme weight increase. These are enormous sums of money and are of great importance to us as a nation. As more members of the council have entered today, after the collapse we have fallen considerably behind in this process, and long timely investments in the system had fallen behind. We have not started the necessary construction of the Land Hospital in a small way, and so on. In fact, there is evidence of changes. Funds committees, like, e.g. At the appliances that are being added to meet the needs of the hospitals in the country, that we have been late, but the government has tried to make things right. Another factor that we have fallen behind, and it is actually included in the government covenant that we are going to change, is that the payment of patients has been too great. At the last budget, the first steps were taken to reduce the budget, and these budgets are still taking steps in the same direction to ensure that during this most ideal period, patients in Iceland will receive the same or the same pay period as they are in other parts of the North countries. It's very important. The government, as well as the budget board, decides that the amount of money that has been on the waiting list during the recent year, i.e. 840 million are taken into the foundation of the budget. Someone may not feel this amount in that context, but when we look at what money can do for them and how it can matter to many patients, the picture changes a little. Because of these changes and decisions, hundreds of individuals will have taken action sooner and more is not being done. It will take some time to wind down the list of waitings that had developed between 2008 and 2017 in order to reach the goals we've been talking about, especially for perhaps larger orthopaedic surgery, to reach them down to three to four months. On that way, we are, and the decision to deposit this money into the base of the budget is a sign that the government is serious about this. The health issues involved in the nurses continue. As noted on the social security website today, where information on the construction of nursing is published next year is sadly so that part of the space they had been hoping for next year will not be for a number of reasons, including some of the reasons. because of a lawsuit, and perhaps it is particularly important to mention the enlargement of the nursing home at the Kingdom Hall in Kopavogi. That is a very bad conclusion, since it could have actually started the nursing home, and as no doubt the members of the council are aware, it should have started a while ago and should have actually run out in the next year. That won't happen. As a result, there are funds for nursing staff, i.e. from what was intended, there was a slight decrease, yet the base of the nursing staff is corrected. I want to believe it's just the beginning, it's not going all the way. It's like it's a committee party or something. Fundament Committee, i.e. the majority are responding to a higher weight of nursing. The nursing home feels that there is more to be done, and as I mentioned earlier, it is mentioned in the Constitution that this is one of the work that needs to be done. I'm aware that this work has already begun at the Ministry of Health, i.e. the review of these matters, and it's important. Nevertheless, more than 160 new nurses will be taken advantage of in the capital area next year. As many senators know, I've been in this business for 17 years, i.e. in the sector of aging services in Iceland. I can't recall years or anything, since as many new spaces were taken to work in one year. That's fine. But this is just the capital area. As reported on the welfare services of the Ministry, there is also room available on land or elsewhere than in the capital area. There is also an increase that will occur next year, with little doubt improving the situation. Like what? Congress officials are familiar with the recent discussions that waiting lists have increased from 110 or 111 days to 120 days in the capital area. It is too long, especially when considering that much of this waiting period in later times is in hospitals, which is a very unfortunate place for older people who have completed treatment to wait. Hospital circumstances are, as should be known, not a domestic situation, and we should not accept that old people have to wait for months in hospitals for provisions. That, however, leads me to another, but under the same category, and that is how we think about the future in this series. As shown in the case of what? paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son back there is a predictable significant increase in the elderly in the next 30 years. If we continue with the same model in aging service over the next 30 years, we aim for older ones who normally need service to enter a nursing home as they do today and to the extent that they do today, we will in the next 30 years build 55 new nursing homes that each take 100 inhabitants. It will cost another hundred billion a year to fire them, i.e. This change alone would require threefold increase in the overall supply of service within the medical system. There's no small amount. We must see that, huh? Councilmen, that if we chose to go that way, we would probably not only be dealing with public funds but we would also be turning against the currents that the older inhabitants of the country have been trying to sail, i.e. reducing the emphasis on founding services and increasing the emphasis on home service It would be strange for me to choose to continue in the same model. I hope we have a new health policy at least some speculations and hopefully decisions to make new decisions on these matters. A few of them. Today, members of Parliament have already mentioned that by rehabilitation and rehabilitation services for older people and, in fact, younger ones have also been able to reduce the need for another service. That's great. It's one of the options that can matter. By increasing our daily training, day - to - day selection, or by focusing on this aspect, we might probably also have a major impact on the need for a nursing home, and by increasing the rehabilitation process for older people, we would also be able to do so. All of this costs something. But it is absolutely clear that the expense models we are working with today will not work for us in 30 years. It won't. We cannot continue that course if we want to continue caring for all the aspects of our modern - day welfare system. There are other things that the government today, this extraordinary government, as mentioned at the outset, has accomplished since its beginning. It has to do with a significant improvement in unemployment. As shown in the case of many members of Congress, she has promised to start changing the social security system. This year, it was originally assumed that the 4 billion would be used in the original edition of the budget bill. Unfortunately, however, it has been found that the expected system changes at the beginning of the year will not be ready, so it is not entirely irresponsible to assume that all the funds will be used immediately next year. It is important, however, that, when the system changes exist, the government will completely finance them. There must be no misunderstanding. It is also important to keep it in place that the government has since its start of making contributions to social matters by more than 20%. Now some senators may say: Well, it was easy to do so; the group had been starving for so long. Still, there are substantial amounts and substantial improvements. As shown in a financial program that the members of Parliament are not sure of, it is assumed that they will continue in the same course. There are other lawsuits, e.g. Transport and environment. It's making a lot of progress. V.E.G. Healthcare Ministers include puts it that transportation is really health care, and it is a measure of it, especially when we think that there are major changes in the health system that directly require that we be able to make sure that our country's residents make it a long way to a hospital, which may not be necessarily near them. Then the road system and transportation must be fine. As I mentioned in my talk, there are many good factors in the bill. And even though the government has already introduced increases in various organizations far beyond the financial elections that the government groups praised for elections, the mission is by no means complete. The government will continue to support the welfare system. She will continue to strengthen the infrastructure of the country, and she will continue on the course laid down in the Treaty to ensure that the social security system serves the purpose that it must do in order for all to enjoy themselves in the community. I'm not going to have my words much more during the discussion, but I'd like to finally say thank you. The budget for a good job, both the greater and the smaller parts, for less tips from the smaller parts are certainly important. Although we may not necessarily agree with all of them, it is very important that we be able to have this conversation and discuss the benefits and flaws of the budget and hopefully land there.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u140	Mr. President. At the beginning of this election period, the government sets up a financial policy that will hold the entire ideal period, and then financialism is the basis for financial planning and financial initiatives. I couldn't hear better than that. A senator would be criticizing the financial policy at its highest level. The government has taken its place, and the administrative body has agreed on a financial rule for a certain proportion of GDP to be left over by the state's funds. I'd like to ask you first what. A senator whether I am understood correctly that he was just criticizing the financial rule that he himself agreed on at the beginning of a term, which should be fundamental to both financial and financial policies. The one standing here was not satisfied with the financial order and voted against it when we were discussing a bill on public financial matters. In an appeal to the bill's release, we in the United States said that as soon as we arrived here, we would change the law on public finances and take out a financial rule in the law. Of course, it would be reasonable for each government to establish a financial rule, but it should not be written into law. I'd like to ask you what. A senator and the left movement ◯ green offers in that cooperation would have made a suggestion to change the law on public finances and to take out the financial rule. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u141	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's question and answer and would like to inform the senator that what I discussed earlier in my speech was more than that the public financial law does not allow room in the framework set at any time, that there is a bar but not a space, if the senator understands what I mean. Instead of having a so-called hard floor in financial policy as it is put up by every government, the floor is more like what I would call soft, i.e. not cross-checking alone, but having spaces like, e.g. According to the incident, the effect was, however, that the event was more than that. I mentioned this in particular because when economic forecasts change between the production of the bills and the end of the bill, there is the scope of the change that is much less. In fact, a hard floor requires that the government at any given time publish a budget bill that has more to do than the financial policy line gives reason to believe that, because otherwise there is no room for change. This is what I was criticizing, not the approved one for spring.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u142	Mr. President. I understand what you're saying. A senator would agree to have a financial rule in government, but he would not have a single number. It's interesting to hear that. A gentleman in the left green is in favor of a government financial rule, but the rule must only be that there is some curve, which in itself is more reasonable than having a hard floor. I agree with what. A senator says it's better. Then I'd like to ask who. A senator. If we had a car instead of a hard floor, we'd have it. A senator wanted the government's amendment on the rest of the welfare system to strengthen it and the ideal child population, even the desperate and the health - care system, or would he want to give more rest? How would that be? A senator wants to make good use of this space and the flexibility if he was present today?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u143	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir It's a question for a couple of years. It's a G. Harðardóttir's question. I think if the floor was soft, as I mentioned it earlier, it would have been the most natural thing to put on the median floor of the floor in order to respond to it, for example. if the economic forecasts got worse, not to take to move the floor down yet, but to hold it in the same place, and to keep it in place. A senator will likely realize that. In view of this, it would have been possible to respond by maintaining all expenses almost in the same numbers, at least in the current situation. About what I expect. A senator is still fishing, whether this form would have meant the change on donations due to planned changes on the basis of a microenergy pensioner. A senator it is just as I am that the form of that change isn't there, it doesn't. Sadly, that committee is still at work. So now, let us say as responsible government, we have to wait for these changes to become apparent. That's why I think it's a careful estimate of the what's going on. The budget to make the change, though it makes on the bill, but it reiterates what I said earlier that when the changes become apparent, they will be filled with money. That's why the government has promised, and at that time it will stand.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-15-32.u144	A respectable president. I have the privilege of likely finishing this discussion today, with a crucial talk, I expect. There is always something special about the discussion so important that the next year's budget is to be talking into the night. But that's what it is, someone has to be last, and then maybe you'll be the first one ever if there's any fairness in your life. Here's a budget bill for 2019. There's a lot of work to do. Happily, as a community, we are in a good place, our country's economy is good, and we may have been coping with certain financial problems in many areas. As economic forecasts show, this high economic growth decreases. However, we are far from in bad places, but we need to adjust budgets each time to the forecasts made. However, it must also be admitted that the predictions that have been made over the years have not always been followed either way. But when public funds are available, there must be a careful approach to the earth, and we have been indignified that financial matters are not a lucky thing to do, as happened to the nation's financial contributions just ten years ago. I can be quite comfortable with these budgets as they are available. They reflect that behind them there are three groups that have different policies on many matters, yet their policies also lie together in various litigation categories. It's been quite successful working together, looks like. As we look at the fact that there is a 4% increase in budget over the course of years, we must be adding to the infrastructure and to the number of problems that have been cut down after collapses and upbuildings. The need has been far - reaching, as we know. What a joy it is, then, to see that we are getting our national sink together! Everyone knows that you can always do better. We do this by having financial and financial policies, where we continue to build on the basis of our major issues, whether health, transportation, well - being, academic, and so on. I want to talk about health matters first. They have been one of these large groups of people who take most of the nation's taxes. That group is going to grow and grow as the nation is growing older, and we demand that we be in the highest order of service to our members and in the highest order of access to the ministry and good equipment. Health contributions are up to less than 15 billion. What a joy it is to see it and to see it not only as capitalist but also as a valuable property! Last, between the 1st and 2nd. Added 200 million to buy equipment, an imaging device, for health institutions around the country. There has also been nurse development. During the next two years, there will be 200 additions of medical space. It's a pleasure. There has been a cumulative need there as well as in many places, and we continue to do so. It has been shown that between the 1st and the 2nd. has been drawn up in donations. It has been explained that the programs for building in certain places have changed, and they have become somewhat delayed. But continue to be fully effective with the task of increasing the number of nurses. The contributions to nursing are increasing by nearly 1,300 million from the 2018 budget. These are all the sums and figures that matter immensely and show the way we are going. We stress the need to spit heavily into these kinds of cases and, unfortunately, have been a major problem. Now, the time has come for us to maintain our integrity and strength in this series of languages. I can also mention litigators, such as those raised by a disabled person's subjects. These are other budgets in which contributions to disability have reached 10 billion. It's a pleasure. But surely it is a disappointment that has not been able to complete the system changes that have been achieved so that the plan to put an additional 4 billion next year in order to further strengthen the position of disability pensioners in the country, where there is a very much cumulative need. We know that a large group of cripples are in a bad place and are waiting for the adjustment to be made and the handling of the known issues, e.g. A dollar across the valleys that all classes have wanted to work on. There has been a group of work where the best - known members, representatives and professionals in this area of the State work to make the most of the money where the need is most needed, and to make use of it so that they can be content with the longer term on how these things work. But let us not let our hands drop down, for the money is there, and when the decision is made, it immediately goes to work for the poor. There is the land hospital, which has long been waiting for a building to start. They took shovels in the fall. It is building up to 4.7 billion in 2019. The same is true of the project, pushing something further ahead because projects are not completely ready for the next job and the money there. Yet, there is no danger but to meet these plans when it is finished. And it is still assumed that the treatment core will be ready in 2024. That's everything. Only on academic matters in the country. They are increasing the contribution of each student in high school about 180,000, but many of the students have had a particular challenge. It must continue to improve the situation of those who are still trying to work out their cumulative problems. But what a joy it is to have a variety of fleas! In the fall of the year, the People's University of Frategia set out, and in Seydell, there has been a number of years of public university activity. Today, funds are being financed by both of these peoples, with hopes for increasing the availability of a wide range of education and strengthening these places, Flatland and Seysfjörður, and increasing the possibility of learning that is not conventional but that promotes creationism. Then, in the future, we need to put our trust in these schools, and as I understand it, it is beginning to work on such laws. This government has also put transport issues first. The total transport expenditure is about 40 billion. Transport costs are being increased by less than 14%. This is up to a 10% increase in the first budget of this government, so we're on our way, although I quite admit that I would have wanted to see an even greater amount of money on transport. There are so many accumulated problems that have not been given money over the past few years and that are drawn up, both because of the collapse, but the priorities have also been, unfortunately, not always right on the part of the government at one time. There are roads like the south side of the West, in the Guflund Valley, and in the Beaches, I give you a hunting necklace and a woodwinder road on Sólfells, the city's forces, so I am now in my district, and I let others count up the remaining locations of the country. All of these are ways that should have been built up 30 years ago. It's a black spot on the country's highway system, and for the people living in those areas, it's unacceptable but trying to speed things up. Whatever the case, I warn that it will be at the expense of those areas that are left there, to speed up the most traffic projects, whatever the case, to warn that there will be an enormous amount of traffic at the expense of those areas that are left there. There people living in the same rights as others are expected to get between places, places, homes, pick up health care and secular work, attend a long way of service, and have to have a proper way of going about. Then I'd like to mention one that just discussed, that is, the Waterwater Road. Children in that area, the West's Huna Council, need to shake for an hour each day on hollow roads to and from school, and when they arrive at school in the morning. There was a large population meeting with the secretary of transportation to review these matters during the days. There is no way to suggest that schoolchildren need to shake in half - an area for a long period of time up to each day. This is a group that's been spitin', and it might've been even better. We'll see what happens next, and it's also pretty expensive to have an investment that is so expensive, that they're smart, but then it's two, three years from now, until the next stage of Daring Bears. That is not to say, the investment involved is not handled well. Everyone knows there's a problem with airports and ports. But there's still a new group, 14%, so the will is there, and we just keep going on that way. Transport is a very high foundation, and there is a chance that employment will build up on relevant areas, that all citizens may enjoy building up as such. in travel services and in competitive areas for people and businesses. My fellow gangs have introduced and reviewed the environment. Environmental contributions increase between the years by 9%, and there is an ambitious environmental programme. For the first time, there is a real effort against plastic pollution, and this is the first time the group is properly financed. The forestry, agriculture, and recovery of wetlands are huge. It's all heavy on climates, and it's important. In a natural and unnatural sense, there is healing. We're building up land and we're together as a community healing in the recovery of wetlands, which means that we're getting into the Paris meeting part of our contribution to climate. It is continuing to build up the infrastructure for transport energy exchange. It is very important that the Internet is around the country so that everyone has a choice to keep cars with lower cost of operating. The development of electric cars was an interesting factor recently on national television, and we Icelanders have every opportunity to be front of the nations to speed up massive infrastructure to make electric cars more realistic for use across the country. It is important to reduce their prices so that ordinary employees can afford to obtain these environmentally friendly vehicles and have a much lower cost of operating. As regards the fishing business, therefore, the budget is directed to the government to discuss in detail the impact of fishing costs on the land's habitats. I can truly agree with that. The cost of fishing has been discussed on a professional board. It has shown that in the less populated areas of the country, there is much concern about the impact of fishing costs on business management opportunities and on integration in this article. It is very important that this is taken in a comprehensive context, and it is based on a wide variety of flea development throughout the country, not all of this is collected on a few hands in a largely developed company but has less potential to build up. Small and medium-sized enterprises are a highway in a number of rural areas where no mass production of large iceboxes, marine ships, or icefish stalks is involved. The time has passed when such ships are in nearly every port. Then a financial committee points out that farmers did not enjoy the quirks enjoyed by many other social groups. The less tax protection that comes in lower prices is collected from farmmen's pockets. In the long run, we must ask ourselves, " Is it reasonable for any other group of farmers to be drawn back from another group? ' This is one of the things being considered today in a group of people, taking the part out of the domestic agreement that turns to sheep's farms, revising it with the will of a sheep's own flock. I hope that this will lead to the conclusion that we will continue to be a man of great wealth in this country and can direct it so that we can be confident that there will be a possibility for recent development in this article and that the areas that are appropriate for sheep breeding will continue to be in the nest and those countries in use because food production is extremely important for each nation. We need to look beyond the future because it is important to us as a nation that we have this variety of food production, whether in gardening, cattle farming, sheep, or other farming, that we can produce as much in this country as possible. This is both to strengthen urbanity throughout the country and to create a variety of employment. Some 18,000 people have in one way or another a agricultural industry in the country, so this is an extremely important article, which is still fragile. As a community, we must make sure that this article can remain in the normal environment and with consumers. This is also an environment, since there are a number of ecosystems involved in moving large amounts of food from corner to corner of the world and unable to rely on a large proportion of domestic food production to be needed within the country. It's about a community plan and how a structured plan is intertwined into the budget. I just got word that there was a contract just signed between part of the country society and transport and local government. This is a contract based on a policy based strategy for 2018-2024. During this time 120 million were assigned to specific projects in the program. There we received a scholarship of 95 million. K. A project involved in the construction of data sets on the final set of the data sets, which has long been included in the maps. What a joy it is to have the privilege of reaching the point where we can see beyond the realization of it! This will strengthen this area very much, since there has been a long period of demand for some industrial structure and diversity in the region and also to use the energy available in mixed activation and that the excess energy there could be new to the future and can be useful to the areas that are achieved by that activation. Happily, there is a pleasant news of the country on the watch of this government, and it is not default, but it is this government with its settlement and intends to do good things there. It is so important that we view the land as a whole and do all we can to promote a powerful life far and wide around it. I believe these funding such as this are positive to the country and look to health, education, welfare, and transportation. We are there on the right road, and we will continue to improve. There are actions in the budget that support families who have a low income. These include child reforms, an increase of 16% between 2018 and 2019. It estimates that there are two declines, one for low - income families and one for rich families, i.e. The decrease occurs more with higher income than with lower incomes. For example, a single - parent child's request of 300,000 can be taken. In monthly incomes and two children, where one of them is under seven years old, will rise by more than 114,000 years. every year. Even if this is a small advance, 300,000 dollars, it does. In a month, no one shouts for that amount, but hopefully the labor leader will succeed with his people to continue to improve the minimum wage. This government also plays a major role in the upcoming collective agreements for e.g. The building address, which is a major part of the progress of all families. There must be a campaign, both for the first purchase of young people and for the purpose of a rented house. It must be spited in, not only in the capital area, but also throughout the country, where there is a growing need. They need to be able to provide housing when people look for work and are willing to work anywhere in the country, looking for opportunities to do so. This is in the hands of people who have the potential to be capable. With the technology we live in today's world, telecommunications, and the potential for working more often than anywhere with our computer, we have to face people's opportunities to get in and get into their homes when they want to change their fields and try to cross the country. Then there is the personal discount. He's raising an excess of consumer sciences. By increasing the rate of character, this change was most useful to those with the lowest income. And I'll also say that there's an improvement in a victim's resources. That, too, matters. One youth has shown that there are very good things in rehabilitation. There's a work contract with up to 250 million people, so you don't have to turn anyone away. There has been a higher trend in this resources than expected, and financial plans are aimed at strengthening it further by 660 million. This financial bill is a cover-up. In many places, there are groups of budgetors that are for the benefit and importance of the cases. Although it may have taken all the discussion now that there has been a need to deal with economic forecasts, I am not so worried that it will prove to be the turnoff that some might want to mean. I believe that with just the right approach and if we back up the tops of growth in the country and are on the side of the jobs in the country that have been growing and creating currency, we are supposed to be able to keep building normal economic growth. Economic growth may not always be the product of good. If he is driving only with a high content of personal consumption, he may not have the basis for it. It needs to be constantly built up, the economy needs to be driven by real production and the introduction of economic growth, that both the export and the import are stable. Then we, this small nation, 350,000 people, should be able to live whether we are elderly, poor, young people, and those who want to come to Iceland, refugees, or those who want to get heads and live in Iceland, and deal with what we're doing here every time, whether in a job structure, culture, or in general in our society, being able to have a good time with our people and our community, and preventing any problems that he's been experiencing over the years. I think we're turning off that path. We're working against inequities and will continue to do so. This government has been ruling for 11 months and has put more into structure than was expected in all of these categories, so we have been doing good things. Although the demands of society are sometimes quite high, that everything should happen in a short time, good economic growth is constantly what counts, that we are not taking a great dip. That's why it would have been good for us to have been in the budget some fluctuation, that we weren't completely tied to the reference to being below 1% of GDP. In a community such as Iceland, where we live under the economic climate that there are natural fluctuations in basic working roads must be one of the tables to meet them at a time. When we pay both quickly off debts and build up our country's shared possessions, there should be some flexibility to meet them in making budgets each time without taking some enormous risk in these areas. We left greens wanted to see that there was some flexibility there when government financial laws were taken care of at the time, and we warned that we were completely nailed to this one 1%. For the first time, public financial laws are under pressure. Since that law was accepted, there have been two laws of the law. In both cases, the Habitat's winter forecast was optimistic, but the summer forecast and as a result, this is the first time we deal with the fact that this so - called ground floor is set in a national financial program, which says 1% of GDP. I've tried to go around a wide distance at this turning point in my speech here at midnight. I don't know if it's fate, I have to start checking it back in time, whenever something's going on, I feel like I'm giving a speech at midnight. I ain't no Cinderella though. But it's like this, there's always gonna be someone to finish the discussion. And although the hall isn't full of people, here are key players, like the chairman of a financial committee that's been put over my speech, it seems to me. I promise nothing that I will speak again after the weekend. If the spirit comes upon me, it will be revealed. I think all of us can be very pleased with these budgets, and we continue to do well. They are well worth being proud and happy that we are on the right track.
