ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u1	A respectable president. In the newspaper this morning, I read a story about a four - year - old girl named Alex. Her name is Alex, she was given that name. That's a beautiful name. I know a woman named Alex. But this young girl can't be named Alex. And why can't her name be Alex? Because the government, the General, has somehow decided that it is a government business to decide whether or not to name it. This is as if the decision of the CREEP Committee, the controversial Committee - it is rightly dissociated to end the alien phenomenon - which, of course, bases its decision on law, the laws of human names which are not out of date in my opinion but that are simply a mismanagement that should never be set in a law to begin with. They are not a child of their time, not a child of any time. I think that's a story about how we Icelanders have long looked at authority. That we have never realized that in some way individuals may be free to rule as simple things in their lives as they are in their name. How did the Icelanders come to ask the authorities if they could have a name like Alex if they were of a smoky breed? How did we come up with that idea? It's a ridiculous, respectable president, and what's more preposterous is that people feel that they are pretty good and that they specify things as children's rights, that children have the right not to have ridiculous names. There are children's laws for this: there is none to protest against them. This is true of child - welfare committees who care for such things. The laws of human names were set, not to protect children, but to protect tradition, to protect the State's requirement to govern what people in this land are called absurd. Finally, I would like to remind you of a fine bill laid down by Reunion and others I hope to pass through here and make the laws of human names now in force to a historical phenomenon that no one will ever want to repeat on a free earth.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u2	A respectable president. I have come here today to wish for the new management of the Icelandic student funds in their work. That government is born into the world of the greatest crisis of all professional and university students. Modern systems have developed into a kind of poverty trap that university students face. In the most serious cases, this can have a significant impact on academic equality. The obvious fact that elderly people in this society have a higher level of employment than professional and university students is, unfortunately, the reality offered to students. 930,000 bucks. There is a limit to the number of people under their summer income. With the depletion rate of LIN and income tax, students are offered a system that reduces their income by less than 82%. It's an unjust superintendent tax on underpayers. It's obvious. No, Mr. President, the current system is forbidden to be active. This is not in harmony with the liberal view that in this society each one can improve his future and his life. In 2011, a extensive survey of the University of Iceland reported that more than half of the students did not attend appropriate health care because of expenses. The fact is, more than tears, that our young people cannot attend the necessary medical assistance they need. In the most serious cases, they need to interrupt their studies because of the cost. The person here has been in the position to stop the school because of health costs. I wish no one to do so, but too many students do not receive proper health care. Increase in job markets is likely to reduce black employment activity and increase the total income of the state's funds. In this category of languages, there is a sharp grip, for the problem is very serious. So I trust the new board of directors to attack the coming years.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u3	President. I read this morning a very progressive and good report by the United Nations Council of Human Rights on our rights to the best possible health. The report contains a significant change in mental health and explains the lack of long - term thoughts and innovations that identify this group in the country as well as in other parts of the world. The report includes: taking into account how overfaith in the biological model of policy development has gone too far and is now irresistible to change. It says, by permission of the president: It has the tendency to reflect biological emphasis on attitudes and progressive involvement of the free partnerships, users and former users of mental health care and specialists from various forms of nonmedical medicine. The report says that there is a great need for emphasis and should lead to the promotion of policy innovation at the top of the population itself, with emphasis on social decisions and the disintegration of the current medical model that seeks to heal those individuals by focusing on disturbances. It suggests that there is an increased need for financial support for nonstandard mental - health services and support models. The report says, with the permission of the president: When supported, the Japhjörður support is an integral part of a recovery service. It inspires hope in the heart, and it promotes individuals in learning from one another. President. Psychiatary follow-up, and Faith Forces include groups that have gone through. 15 years we have provided resources for the family of those considered to be desirable in a United Nations report. Where there are now plans to put mental health into place, an escort to separate it from the Bible and to withdraw into other groups based on a monotonous approach to mental health care, i.e. Care, custody, and drugs, I would like to place special emphasis on the highest priority. A health minister will consider the report and review his approach. Here we have the ideal opportunity to be leading this class rather than by boat, which is, unfortunately, far too common.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u4	Mr. President. All I want to do is explain the trip of the Western Council to Greenland during the days of a theme conference held there at the Western American Council. Many interesting developments were made there. There were opportunities and challenges to travel in the West Nile, and a seminar on that subject. There are different challenges and challenges in these three countries. Also in Greenland, tourism is building quickly. There, people look forward to expanding airports to increase the transport of people to the country and within the country, both in Ilulissat and in Nuuk. There, traveling workers are a lot of foreign people, and profits are getting a lot out of the country and are talking about trying to keep their profits at home. In the Faeroes, education is emphasized in this article and is being strengthened and strengthened by the rule of order. There are new protection laws. In the case of a travel minister, it was noted that here in Iceland, there is a partnership between tourism schemes and a high priority on sustainable development in the article and that growth is in agreement with society. Granted, we are dealing with different assignments. I think it's an urgent project, a review of transport plans, that we look to the infrastructure, and especially the national airports. There's a lot of investments that have just been blown down. We need to build up an airport in order to manage tourists all over the country for international tourism throughout the year. A new transport program needs to reflect the need for infrastructure in Iceland. We can't just take more people forever if we don't have any wood, we know they're paralyzed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u5	V.E.G. President. I'm going to talk about jobs anyway. Funds, jobs ahead, and the big challenge after the capitulation of 2018, which we see, i.e. The budgeting process. The committee now covers three issues, all of which relate to the framework set up by the public financial law, as well as the objectives of their laws, i.e. Congress resolution on financial policy, Congress resolution on the preparation of a total fiscal budget and individual Member States in Part A and then a bill for the final budget of 2016. A report by the Council's Review to the General Assembly in December, which has to do with the implementation of budgets from January through June of the past year, will include: over the development of paying and earnings during the early part of the year. It is noted that, when it comes to what we call a financial agreement, the sentences of new laws on public finance have not so far increased, as directed, in the financial administration of the State. Of course, this challenge is not limited to why. The body board, but the part of our work that is entitled to support and monitor the implementation of budgets and what causes the variation from budgets. In many cases, of course, normal explanations for this are either underestimated by the budget or underestimated by the extension of projects and income. However, it is important that we work to improve plan, increase flexibility in the implementation of funding, and the appropriate use of reserves, as the law expects. To one end, this challenge is to work toward the goals of the law, to increase firmness, stability, and discipline in carrying out the budget. Political policies are necessary, but the responsibility is at the same time great. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u6	Mr. President. The government of the left green, independent party and forwarding party took over two months ago, i.e. November 30th. A covenant regarding government activities was introduced in many areas by a poignant and gentle minister. Of course, it is only natural to give a new government room to prove itself. But, frankly, the beginning does not promise good promises of a government's strength and joy, and there is evidence of a big offense or improved practice. The Council's time has not been used to handle government issues. In fact, there have been few cases with the council from the government. An inexpensive investigation shows that the government has submitted approximately Twenty-five cases, of which nine cases are republished from the former government, two EU embassies, and some cases were advanced in the preparation of the former government. In the Constitution of the Government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, I consider myself to be less than 130 cases of various kinds. According to this, more than 100 cases have not been established, and it is not easy to see that the council handles the number of cases before the end of the council in spring. In addition to these issues, there are a large number of members of the Parliament who will be treated and decommissioned from members of Congress, both greater and smaller. The above indications do not indicate an improvement in the quality of the job response or in the degree of desire, at least seem to be unconvinced and unreceptive, on the basis of the issues established by the government. I call it the highest. Prime Minister, the government's foremanager, responds to his words about improving work practices and consultations with the council and provides a targeted point of action so that the council can handle them in a careful and balanced manner.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u7	A respectable president. The other day, I ran into an article after something happened. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Francis Óttarsson Proppér asked him to have a word with me at the council for the matter. In this article, the senator deals with old-fashioned conflict politics, an opinion found among members of the United States Congress on some left-stuff. Hv. A senator will answer the article in a material way, but the disagreement is about a dollar and a percent, so there is no need to be any further trace here. But what brings my attention to this article is two things. First of all, the plunger is complained about left-stuff and it's said to be an old warlike bitch who gives no reward and the government encourages them to come together with the government. Second, the emphasis is on improving practice. As to this, the subject is saying, "I am prepared to criticize. " paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otter's son Proppér has the word left-stair, but I respect those words as well as good and valid opinions. I agree with the understanding that there may be an old conflict in politics, but I do not judge that such a view is necessary. That's what I think it's gonna be. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otter's son Proppér', of the fact that left-stealing is old fighting politics, of course, old fighting politics. Responding in kind is, in my opinion, an old fighting bitch who doesn't belong within some kind of better job response. So I have to ask myself, and why. A senator, why I as a member of the administrative body and in a critical position should come together when the government is still old, considering that we are still here trying to explain to the Minister of Justice and finance what they did wrong to the order of a judge, to be driven away by a fictitious, and to hide from the tax industry. Who is responsible for doing better work? One who is a critic or one who is critical? Even if the criticism may be unconcerned, does the answer not have to be perplexing?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u8	President. Here comes criticism of criticism of criticism, and best, I am better and more critical of the criticism. When I listened to a talk, I gave it to him. A senator came to my mind a song with Megas, a philosophical speculation about social status, but thank you very much. A senator for speaking with me on the matter. I don't know how to answer that - this has not been clear to me in the article - that I am in some way praying about our objective discussions. It is likely to criticize a government and criticize what is being done there. I thought, for example. many things to say. paritaprevir Jón Steindór's Valdimarsson, who spoke before me about the fact that the government brings more cases into the council. It doesn't mean that you can't believe in the criticism that she's somehow an old-fashioned fighting bitch, which I think is in this case. Talking about it as a betrayal when left greens promise 40How billion payoffs during the entire election season before the last election and succeeds in increasing the cost of one month by 19 billion, which is up to 47.5% of the promise for the entire ultimatum, I feel that it is simply an old - fashioned enthusiast in which people actually do not discuss things fairly but try to get into headlines. That's what I call an old fighting bitch. Why would they do that? A senator Mixing With Us? That must be true of himself. Until we all come together, we will be ready to sit down and discuss how we're going to do things. I have great hope for myself. I will at least extend my hand, and I hope that people can come together to improve the work at the Council and in politics in general.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u9	Mr. President. I will use my talk period to discuss the threat of the world's nuclear threat. It is not the first time that I use this speaker's hand to do so, but the need to discuss these matters becomes more and more urgent. Since 1968, there has been a treaty for the ban on the spread of nuclear weapons, called the NPT Convention. It involves a ban on further proliferation of nuclear weapons and lays an obligation on those nations who have such weapons to work out their destruction. I'm among those who believe this deal wasn't working. Although the reduction of bombs has certainly been achieved, the bombs that have been in progress have become more powerful. Now that it is possible to read about the media that the Trump government's nuclear policy in Washington is now changing, where it is spoken of as developing what is called a rhythmic nuclear weapon that can be used in local warfare, which is said to be less armed. But then we're talking about weapons of the magnitude they threw on Hiroshima, so we put things in perspective. Of course, this is a serious matter, and I will therefore in the coming days of resurgence a matter for Iceland to become a member of a recent U.S. U.S. national agreement to simply ban nuclear weapons, for unfortunately, the disarmament agreements that have been in effect in recent decades have not been working. [[The president calls.]] This is a huge deal, and I want a body of Congress to consider these matters and see how we can help the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u10	Mr. President. Looking forward to the past 10,520 years, we are particularly good at indoctrinating administrative matters, e.g. About national parks. There are about eight to ten agencies and governments outside the Ministry that operates on that subject. A recent report has now been published by the National Reexamination of tourism administration. It arrived last October. The result is relatively simple: It is a high or too high misunderstanding and lack of efficiency in a town. If we watch the scene, we have the heads of the National Parks, we have the Environment Agency, a travel agency, an Iceland lab, most of the travel council. Now the Travel Control Center has added. Communicate governments, Group Agency, market agencies of the country and then the Ministry. I'm sure I forget something. Obviously, this is where we need improvement. I got it. I got it. The U.S.R. to lay down one thing and to go, including the U.S. according to the President's Revision Guide. You know, there's a lot of good things in the tourism business, but I'm sorry. Let me give you two examples. It's homemaking, or what we call a long-term living apartment building. An example is Airbnb. It is obvious that this arrangement and the numbers have grown to many rural areas. There are three other areas in the South where the invitation is served in permanent tents. Its licenses are vague, real estate expenditures are unclear, organizational issues are unclear, and safety issues are unclear. There is also work to do, to make sure that such things are bound.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u11	Mr. President. When we discuss the banking system, the size and the service of the bank, we need to look for a small country and its market, but we also need to establish a routine of financial activities that are internationally acceptable and trustworthy. This is also a prerequisite for competitive foreign trade. We must also have a powerful consumer protection in financial markets. Crediters must not be like any other form of sales, which is controlled by what provides financial institutions and their executives with maximum interest. The borrower must be well informed and have adequate payment. The bank should not have permission to push it into debt. The terms and risks of creditors and borrowers need to be leveled, and this is especially important today when access to loans is incredibly good and the pay is very fast electronic. It is essential that the State employs its owners'influence in banks to contribute to the better and more practical development of financial markets and their organization. The risks of the operation are still being carried, to the majority, to customers and taxpayers. The future financial system in Iceland needs to be aimed at making the system safe, efficient, and suitable for national development. In the future, investment banking and business banking will be segregated. The public will be protected from gambling banking, and banks will be used as inexpensively as possible to people and normal companies. The cost system and minimum - risk investment become part of the general service to the people in the country. We are to reorganize the banking system, but that task cannot wait long, long after another report or another committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u12	V.E.G. President. I'm thinking of some exchanges that happened here yesterday in a Senate hall between them. paritaprevir The Sigmurs of Gunnlaugsson Gunougsson and the highest. Prime Minister Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter. In response to the minister's response, in the case of calls, the lack of policy and courage of the government, and the lack of interest and understanding of the prime minister himself, the need to reorganize the financial system in Iceland. It seems now that the company of prime minister, who actually has an old history in giving foreign banks, will repeat the game with his new best friends, the hold, and will not take advantage of the State's premarital rights of Arion's bank. But that was just getting divorced at the highest. Yesterday's prime minister was not aware of the existence of this prerogative. The nation's prime minister does not know that there is a prerogative. Now, I'm sure the first thing that's going to be done is if Anion Bank is sold to demanding guys or hedge funds, all of which seem to be done, you'll start by cutting this bank apart, selling out valuables like Valistor. Instead of returning to the Iceland State Fund, they will come to the pocket of the owners of hedges in a world that will probably look forward to it. If that is how, Mr. President, really, that, beyond his own money of Arion banks, which is sufficient to build a new national hospital from scratch, will be let leaked out of the country, will be leaked into the pockets of foreign hedges, then this government for that at least for an age and a lifetime for incredible discouragement and indecency.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u13	A respectable president. It's with great sadness that I stand here talking about what's called a human tragedy. I want to take responsibility, I want to handle difficult tasks with the determination I have to as a democratic representative of the Allied Council of Iceland. It's hardly missed anyone, the #methoo revolution, the revolution that we can be proud to experience, the revolution that's unique in the history of the world. I'm not gonna talk about her anymore. Rather, I'm going to talk about the lack of a revolution for our children, for the community that is the most vulnerable and utterly defenseless of all manner of violence that may be done on them. I don't think it's the kind of nonsense that surrounds children with sexual abuse. Infancy is one of the most disgusting things I can imagine, defenseless children, even in the care of someone they trust. Children raped in their sleep, children drugged to be more acceptable to the disgusting practices of what is taking place. It is time to draw responsibility to those who are supposed to care and protect our children. It is long time for us to step forward, call for a revolution for our children, and realize that being an official is not enough, not enough to be in a better position, but we must also be luxuriant in order to live up to it and have responsibility. And if you have failed to act, you should know how to resign and allow others to do your job.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u14	Mr. President. Recently, a team of workers returned a very significant report on the role of pension funds in the construction of jobs. I would like to bring this report to the attention of the United States Congress and encourage all members of the Parliament to study its contents. We were with members of the Committee for Economic and Business Affairs this morning for about a year. An hour and unable to complete the subject. I'm just going to point out one point in this report, the amount of the pension fund in the business world and the investments of those who are already in the business world, mainly tied in with registered members that are up to the highest budget in Iceland. However, this investment policy, as good as it can be, has negative consequences when it comes to SMEs' position. It is quite clear that the investment policy of the pension fund makes the competition between SMEs not as if it were otherwise because their access is not the same as that of the big companies when it comes to risk. That's a worry. We need to keep that in mind and discuss it in particular, since this was certainly what happened in the financial crisis. Finally, Mr. President, I'd like to congratulate you on your day. I understand today is 19 years from the highest. The president founded the left movement ◯ green supply. I'd like to congratulate the members of the VGCU for the day. [[The people of all nations.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u15	Mr. President. There are reports from the world that the stock market is not going too well. Nasdaq collapsed by 1,176 points yesterday and has worked out something today. Such events are to remind us of the dangers in the economy. You will be thinking about how best to defend yourself against another crash. In life, variety is one basis for endurance to make rapid changes. Iceland's economy is kind of unique, as we know it. Travel is more than 30% of gross domestic product, compared to 16% in Spain, now known for a major tourist stream. Germany's largest industry, the car industry, returns 12.8% of its export income. Our largest sectors are considerably larger. A wide variety of professional roads is needed. We have to help her. There are several possibilities: Direct marketing and sponsorship of Iceland to encourage further direct investments in Iceland; to attract companies to Iceland from Britain that cannot work outside the EU market; to appeal to innovation companies in areas where regulations, e.g. In the United States, they are too heavy and might be better here and to facilitate access to our markets - these are generally obvious steps and there are other factors to consider. At the same time, the integration of enterprises has to be made less expensive, their business is simpler, the transport of capitals more predictable by a more reasonable means of money policy and the transport of human resources with a wide variety of provisional and employment secrets, improved electronic management and fewer random fees. I'm sure we can handle this. This is what will enable us to respond in a better way when the world's financial markets get into some kind of roller coaster ride.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u16	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct deduction, central reforms, and de-translations. The bill's on the roof. No. 93. The bill carried out under the Commission's care by the committee's appointed key economic authorities includes the implementation of EU Regulation No. 6482/2012, about deduction, central shapes, and sufficiency files in Icelandic rights. The main focus of the bill is the legalisation of the Regulation and the necessary measures, such as the monitoring of the regulations of the bill, the reporting of the Rapporteurs, the application of the European Commission and EFTA and the EFTA Court's check-ups, judicial hearings to the police and the licences of the Council to set regulations. The relevant EU protocol was set up in the EEA Convention in the fall of 2016. The main element of the bill is: 1st All deduction agreements should be made to the decontaminated records, which are a new occupational responsibility for a partner in a financial market that collects and preserves derivatives. 2. The specified OTC derivatives should be set up in a centrally formed product agreement, but OTC derivatives are non-sential agreements on a structured stock market. A central developer is a new partner at a financial market who sets himself up and becomes a new buyer to each seller and vice versa. It requires insurance to minimise the risk of reconstitution and thus prevents the chain reaction of commercial neglect. 3. New risk management requirements for OTC-derived non-Standard agreements for central models. 4. The setting of the activities of central reformers and off-limits. A respectable president. The regulations proposed in the bill will affect all the consequences of the country, although in most cases only this requires that all such transactions be reported. The effect is greater with OTC derivatives. The bill will have a limited impact on general investors and SMEs in which they account for minimal. For these individuals, there is mainly the conditions of the above spontaneous reporting, but also the requirements for internal organization due to risk management, if business with OTC derivatives is performed. There is a greater impact on financial institutions and other stakeholders who are involved in significant OTC derivatives. They are required for a post-office, such as the OTC derivatives, risk management and management insurance for non-Standard agreements, as well as for bringing in the information on derivatives. The cost of this will be several, but to a large extent, it is a single-change cost to establish relationships and negotiations with centrally shaped and derivatives, as well as induction and development of new processes and activities with risk management. In view of the small market, it is not expected that a central developer or a decontaminated company will begin working here. It is of great importance that the small market will not be expected to be the start of a central carer or detranslation file. However, in terms of the SEC, the bill will add to the work of the monitoring of half to one rank relative to the current situation. The increase in the monitoring programme is expected before 2018. The cost of increased demands is met by a higher monitoring rate. Is the net effect, then, on government funds little or none. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee following this discussion and then the 2nd. At the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u17	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you a question of the highest degree. A minister may have a slight intervention in saying that this will not be an established text or a central developer for the small economy. I was wondering if this bill is going to need any further surveillance clearance, but it's in the bill. It has been criticized by the World Cash Fund that the SEC does not have the teeth it needs to care for its own checks and has offered suggestions elsewhere from the community that there will be a check in the Federal Bank. Ideas I don't know what the highest part is. A minister may think about, or, in fact, many others as a result. Away from that, I find no special authority in the bill for the F.S.A. to perform this role outside of my authority to commit guilt. Well, there's one law of prison punishment. But I wondered, " Is there anyone in need of a special look at the sources of this bill in the feds? ' Or are these commercial acts that are simply not of the magnitude of the region that they need so much supervision over their heads?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u18	A respectable president. First with regard to Economic Affairs and the general comments the World Bank Fund has made. They have, on one side, turned the importance of the independent, well-finishedness of the FESI and could play a role in the basic executives of being professionally independent and to the power of human beings and expertise and capitals to do their job. I have thought that the statements of the International Cash Fund have mainly reminded me of the importance of this. I believe the SEC is well prepared to take on the extra commitments or requirements of this bill. In general, in terms of deduction, I believe that it can be reasoned, and I've written about it before, that it is extremely important that we have a good overview of the country's deduction status that can make it possible to accumulate risks in our systems so that it can even create a chain reaction that can cause profound instability in the event of certain circumstances. For e.g. The stock market may be important to have such an overview if there is a high level of stock deficiency, and this increases the transparency of stock markets, so I mention an example of derivatives that may be important for information. [[The president calls.]] That may be the key to this bill, to increase transparency and perspective.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u19	A respectable president. I really appreciate this bill for transparency and perspective. I just have to say, as it is, I think the bill is materially important, especially in view of the kind of commercialism being dealt with. They are not necessarily transparent unless there is some rule on them. Then there is another question that I wondered about reading the bill. Now I commit the torture crime to ask about something that I don't know the answer to, that's probably not something you're not supposed to do, but I'm going to do it anyway: how much effort is there in the Icelandic economy that so far has been possible to do without telling anyone? How do we know how much these actions, these OTCs, are in the Icelandic economy? Is that something from the collapse, or the aftereffects, that gives us a clue? If I understand the highest. At that point, a minister claimed that these changes were not of great importance because of the smallness of the economy. I basically believe that. It's the other thing that makes me doubt a little bit; although there's very little economy here, that has not necessarily prevented a person from committing a very large financial attraction. I wondered: " How is this size known? I say in advance that I understand it very well if we need a case like this in order to answer that question properly, but it raises a question again as to whether the surveillance is proper. At least. I'm going to go to the top. Minister to understand my speculations.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u20	A respectable president. If you want to find out how common a business venture has been in the economy, I would think it was by far the most likely that the business banks were shaped in such a business. It is hard to believe that such risks have been taken from other than big business banks of the day. There was certainly a considerable deal of interference in the years leading to collapse, and deduction can be a very normal and essential part of many companies'activities to deal with business risks. I'm assuming that if it were worth your efforts to find out, it would be possible to call for information on the extent of the risk. Of course, the business banks usually reflect the risk of something else, and the system guarantees itself from within. This is a European principle, which requires that these special protesters be introduced and recorded, as I can about in my history, that it is not likely because of the small market that such activities will start in particular out of the country following this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u21	A respectable president. We're here discussing one of the big, important issues that we get from the EEA community service, a bill for the de-mutation, the centrally-created reformed, and the de-employment files. I feel sorry for the audience if they don't understand what the bill is about, it's not weird if you don't get involved in it. After my premeditation on the bill - I'm saying that I'm not an expert on the subject, but I can look up things and I like to learn about it -- I have to say, in fact, I agree with the bill, I think it's a very important bill. It's very important to me that transparency is increased in this business. It's like the highest. Secretary of finance mentioned earlier, and it actually appears somewhere in the bill's report, if I recall correctly, unless I have read it elsewhere when reading the case, that this is one of the things that had nothing to do with the collapse, the financial breakdown in 2008. Then it became critical that such a business was not transparent. OTC stands for an over-the-councer in English and is a type of business that does not take place in a stock exchange or such place, but only a man who has a million or a partner or what one and very hard to have some perspective or transparency in it unless there is a rule such as this. So I'm in favor of the case. But what also happened to its reading, and I had noted before in the discussion and similar cases, is a specific problem we face in Iceland, in connection with the EEA Convention, a problem that is not new from the needle and was warned immediately in 1992 and has been warned all the time, that, sooner or later, the requirements for us for the EEA Union's activities are going to the full scale of our constitution, in particular, 2 gr. dealing with judicious authority. Now I remember that at the 145th Conference, there was also a matter for discussion where the same doubt exists, and it seems to be a subject that very much attaches to these issues lately because it is this way that our cooperation is developing, which these directives and regulations are developing, and in particular, the Regulation, of course. When developing European institutions for some kind of judicious authority, I don't want to call it a judicious in itself but this kind of judiciary, I'm going to call it for now, it's bound to cut very close to the basic premise that in Iceland the Republic's Constitution of Iceland. It identifies judicial courts as judicial courts. I've heard a story about law issues I don't know how to tell about whether the EEA contract is just a constitution. I'm not gonna take it, because, first of all, I don't know how to handle it, and I think it's too long and old to be included in this particular case. However, this particular matter has already been discussed. Similar matters have come up for a very recent discussion, not only at the 2016 Congress but also later, during the last term, the brief one. It always has to do with these things. There's been now some legal opinion about that: Yes, yes, it's a constitution. But yet it's not clear, at least not for me, and not for others who have looked at it, and not at the latest. Prime Minister in his day. That's when the current news went out. Prime Minister Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, felt that the issue that is illogical on this basis would not have a constitution. It may be at the top. The prime minister changed his mind, and I appreciate it. There's nothing wrong with changing your mind, especially when you do research, but I still feel that we need that support, I feel personally. Again, I say I agree with the matter in a physical way. Also, I can't help but mention a simple solution to this problem, a solution that I would suggest to introduce, i.e. setting up regulations in a constitution allowing the office of government. Some people think it's some kind of surrender to the fact that we're giving up on Iceland's independence. But such a law would mean that such exposé could always be taken back, I don't talk about if it was a democratic security valve on it, such as that a greater part of Congress would need an approved or national fee or even both, who knows. But there have been ideas on such a provision; it is not new. It has often been called after, long before the time of this fine document, which in everyday usage is called the bill of the Board of Governments. However, it is referred to as the expansive hall of the State, in 111rdres. It is one of many articles that should be of no particular concern to those most opposed to the board of directors. I realize that members of the community within certain categories are opposed to such regulations. I don't think it's likely that someone is simply against the bill of the entire administration because of this arrangement, but it's important if we're going to continue this cooperation, and I suggest we do it, which is what we need. We need to work this out because I don't feel that it's going to work out, because we're participating in a very normal, important, positive, and upbuilding partnership like the EEA, that we're always in the process of paying votes with 33 votes against the smaller parts of Article 2. The constitution, the courts itself. I just think it's wrong. I don't think it's entirely compatible with our administration order either. I feel that this and similar topics are constantly raised by such questions that we reevaluate the Constitution. We have every chance to do that. For us, there's a fine piece of paper, not a perfect piece, but a fine piece of paper called the Council of Control. As a result, the bill of the administration and monitoring committee, followed by a panel document 1111 from that council, 141., which contains the third edition of that fine piece. We could debate it here, I guess we'll come and see if we can do it sooner or later. I think it's important that we mention this because we're at the Parliament a little bit neglecting our constitution. I really hate it. There are three versions of this provision originating from the Council of Control, i.e. what is found in the subtraction of a management body, on the one hand of the Commission and the monitoring committee and on the other, in what is found in the transition plan, i.e. of the 113th st. the package that was a new version of the whole bill. The bill of the Government Council is expected to include contracts such as the EEA and certainly the EU to be paid, something that I think is a good idea. Although I'm always grateful that we're in the EEA and I think it was the right decision at the time, I don't think it would have been any harm to the case if it had been paid nationally. I consider it a national right to make decisions like this. The 1111, also founded on the bill of the Council of Government, has spoken of three fifths of the Generalis having to agree with contracts, such as the EEA. If it's less than that, more or more, then the matter should be paid nationally. There is another solution. If we don't get three-quarters of the Generals, we'll probably need to take a closer look. But I notice that if that law had been in Iceland's constitution in 1992, then the EEA deal would still have been paid nationally because there wasn't much more, it was almost 60%, it was 58% or 59%, something like that, at that time of the paid votes, seven sitting by. I think it's important that we settle this at some point. I think it's important that we can be clear that such issues as these are not possible violations of the Constitution. I don't think it's really important that the Council isn't somehow split down more or less about the center or about whether it approves an EEA case in a scarf that could possibly break on 2 g's. The constitution. I find it uncomfortable, so to speak, and we have to deal with it somehow. The solution is very simple. We reviewed the constitution and set in place the requirements we need, such as the expeditation principle, which should not be a problem if people have their own time, to reason on it to the end. In the end, people are concerned about that matter. To put it into practice, I actually agree with the bill, but I'm not here to support it, at least not by paying that vote at this point, because I'm not going to take the risk consciously of accepting a case I'm not convinced not to violate the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland. I might change my mind, but at least I haven't heard enough to convince myself it's safe. So I'll make it wait later. We are now just at 1 Corinthians 15: 58. Um... there's plenty of discussion left. I think this is another matter that makes us take the overall review of the Constitution, based on the Board of Directors' bill, of course take it seriously and finish that case instead of continuing to persist in some way and pretend that the current constitution is some piece of heaven above. It's an old document. In many respects, that is out - of - date. It's actually a product of a kingdom, and it's bearing its mark, an emissary committee is another example that I'm not going to use on this occasion, but that's enough to take. It's been a long time. Like I say, I love the EEA team. I think we should keep doing that. I'd like to vote with this matter, but while this is all over, it's hard at best.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u22	A respectable president. I'd like to say, first of all, that although it has been mentioned in the discussion that a central developer or conducter will not be expected to have a work station or start a operation in this country, the announcement is mandatory. Such announcements will be electronically carried through the site and will be carried out by very large members of potentially multi-country countries. Then there is the other. A senator came in and took care of the EEA rights. It makes me feel like I've got a huge case going on. Hv. A senator links it to the constitution, etc. There's a lot I'd like to say about it here. First, I believe that this particular case is well within the limits we have so far considered to be valid in the administration of authority. The extent of the authority being handed over is important, and this is where they are being handed over to the institutions we are involved. As for the constitution, I can agree with that. A member of the council that it can be a great advantage, and in order to enhance his understanding of the constitution of authority that can be handed over to the administrative rights just as he is. But I have no personal interest in increasing authority to such matters. I believe we have some clear rules about which authority can be handed over to the institutions we have and are involved in. It might be nice to enter the constitution of such exposés, but there is no reason for my judgment to extend that authority. I think that's where I think I'm at. A senator may not agree completely. I think he's going a little far in it when he says that his sources will be the first time they are placed in a constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u23	A respectable president. I'm not sure, just not sure often, whether this EEA case conflicts with the constitution or not. But that's not good enough, that's not good enough for me. I want our constitution to be clear, that what it means is undisputed, even if a person does not approve of individual regulations. There's a set of regulations in the bill of the Council of Government that I personally resent, just as it was in the current constitution. As you should know. I think it's important to put this into a constitution to at least stop getting in the way. And so I'll just say in Icelandic: I'm not playing some political game. I have no objection to this matter materially. I'm in favor of the material. I don't have anything against the EEA, I'm favoring the EEA. I wish that I could just vote with this and be glad that I learned so much from studying it like many others. But I'm just not there for this. Because it's always over. It's a problem for me as a senator, a problem for me as a citizen, and I think that's a problem for the people too, for the civilian who try to understand their administration and the law that's being agreed to, from the current constitution, and can't read out of it the authority to do this. It's not like it's coming out of some void, it's not like it's coming up with the savagery of Piranha. This subject has been available since we entered the EEA and for good reason. So most of all, I think it's important to be clear. I don't think with the sentence of the excrement, as found in the bill of the Council of Government, the court would be being extending according to the highest understanding. Minister. On the contrary, it might be reasoned that it was being squeezed out because there are additional requirements, for example, a national bill for approval on the Board of Governments. However, since the 1111th Parliament's Council of 141th, the Change in Commission and Observation Committee's proposals to the Committee to evaluate the higher part of the Parliament, three fifths of the Parliament, is expected to agree. So there's an increase in defences by the regulations I wouldn't say were increasing those sources, i.e. If I gave myself the impression that I agree with the highest. Ministers on the sources the Constitution is supposed to provide even now.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u24	A respectable president. This is an exciting subject, and I'm not making up the senator some political game here at all. I agree with him that the subject is very important, and there has also been a lot of discussions, and quite right, including. ... sincewe walked into the European Economic Area. I simply believe that it is totally undisputed among Iceland's scholars that there is a right to hand over authority, as we did, but it is crucial to me that it is absolutely fundamental to my mind that it is an institution to which we Iceland is involved. The situation is to become involved when the European Union demands that individual Member States agree to submit to the competent authorities that the EFTA countries are not involved. I think it's time to say that we're at the very top of the ice. It may be, I'm not going to tell myself about it today, that, in very limited cases, it would not violate the Constitution to agree to the authority of such institutions, we may have to examine the arrangement at a time, and we have such issues on the program of this council that I think. There is then an occasion for another special discussion that we formed to the EEA on the basis of a two-part system in which we submit to the channel of the institutions we are involved and the European Union is subject to the obligatory authority of the institutions involved. When the European Union is now, with the changes in the relationship and thus the contracts, they begin to demand that the EFTA countries submit to the invitation of their institutions, for example, a basic question of this matter is raised. Whether the European Union is in a position to perform such a requirement when considering the origin of the EEA Convention and the fundamental thoughts behind it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u25	A respectable president. V.E.G. The secretary of finance notes that this is undisputed among scholars, and I intend to assume that it is, without absolutely agreeing. I'm afraid to make such a statement myself. No matter what happens, it just doesn't work for me. It's not enough for me to read public penalties and get advice from experts to tell me what they mean. It's not enough for me to have experts agree on some technical yet important point from the Republic's Constitution of Iceland. The Republic's constitution should be understandable to the citizens. You shouldn't have to around her so much. Here at the council, we only use our democratic role to question government legislation. That's exactly our job, that's in the job description. We'd be procrastinating our work if we weren't doing it. That's what's so boring. I'd like this to be clear. Then we wouldn't have to talk about it, we'd be clear. Of course, I suppose such expeditation would be well done, so it would be settled, and it would be clear and would explain to civilians, as are the people here, how all of this works together, without the mutual opinion of experts, with all due respect for them and their vital motivations for this. As to the basic question, it is true. A minister goes out on both support systems and all that. But there's the same answer again: If I tell the civilian that the two-part system is a solution, he doesn't understand what I'm talking about. I have to educate him completely indiscriminately, just in order to understand this simple point, whether we are the heads of a nation or not in the conversation that follows. That won't do. We must have regulations in the constitution that makes this clear so that we are all on the same page, scholars as the public citizen, about what we are doing when we share in other good and important cooperations like the EEA community. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u26	Mr. President. There's been some very interesting killings here. First, I want to say that I agree in a physical way with the bill here, or at least I have no special warning about it at this point. I am very interested in the discussions that have been conducted on constitution and authority to hand over authority, and I want to thank the highest authority. Secretary of the budget and what. paritaprevir The Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for their introductions in that discussion. I remember having a word with the very present. Prime Minister when discussing the introduction to the European monitoring system at the 146th legislature Council. Some of the interesting things were said there. Among other things, the conclusion was present. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, now the highest. Prime Minister, the following, I testify directly to it, by permission of the president: ▪ As a result, I find it very difficult to support this matter, although the purpose of the law is the way I described it earlier. She didn't object to the bill, but I don't remember any better than she ever sat by and probably most members of the council left green on that case. If I quote more of a word or two. paritaprevir Then, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, Katrín's daughter, here in the opinion of the committee, points out that there is a great doubt that there is a record of authority. I can't agree with that with the highest. Secretary of finance that this is totally undisputed. At the very least, the issue was controversial that the left greens did not trust at the time to support it from these criteria.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u27	A respectable president. Actually, I'll be the first person to pick up the glove for other members of the council. It's a legitimate vote, and members of Congress do it for a number of reasons. Sometimes they simply are not sure if the basis for their decision is clear or not, as in this case. In fact, I agree with the bill. I'm not sure about the constitution. It may very well be that I'm just going to pass on this matter. I haven't made up my mind yet. There's nothing wrong with that in itself. But talk. However, the senator and the present prime minister were perfectly clear in my opinion; the noble suit. At least this was considered a violation of a constitution by a senator who did not qualify. It's not indiscriminate. It's good for the experts to agree on something, but that's not enough. In this room, we need to agree on that. We do not necessarily have to agree on whether we like the bill, but we need to agree on what the Constitution means. Now it is possible that during this term period and during the last, even though it has been, and during the season before, that is not clear. We're in a hurry. It doesn't mean anything to point out some experts to fix that problem, because it's just not the experts who control it, it's civilians elected to the General election. They have to understand it for themselves well enough to be sure whether this will conflict with a constitution or not. I would like to maintain that in this vote on the matter as a matter of course. A senator mentioned here, about a European financial monitoring system, which is certainly not the same as this, was the five senators of Pirata who voted against it; everyone else said yes or did not vote. There were all 18 senators who did not vote for the same reason. Then it was 27 at the time that voted with the bill. It's just not enough. We should be able to agree on this. That's good stuff. We're supposed to be able to talk about them. The Constitution, in my opinion, is not supposed to get in our way when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u28	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I'd also like to make it clear that I voted with the bill that I quoted to the decommission, so my evaluation was at the time, and is still, that it passed the constitution, so that it is now made clear. I would speak first because I believe, and agree with what. A senator, that it is bad if there is so much doubt about what we are doing about the induction and what we can do and what we cannot do, what is permitted to betray and what is not. That's why I've become a spokesman that it must be one of the largest aspects of the Constitution's review to adapt it to the present time in Iceland's cooperation with other countries. We should go quite far in setting clear sources that we can share in a wide variety of cooperations on any basis. It comes as no surprise that I would want to go so far that, for example, it would. Let us walk in the European Union, we would be ready to go. This is not to say that there should be only a very simple way to do so, but there is much more to it. I just think in the modern world Iceland as an independent state should be prepared to participate in the cooperation the Parliament and the Icelanders decide to participate. We are to think ahead and be prepared for it. Then there's a very different question: Will it ever be approved, e.g. what I'm involved in in the European Union. But we are to be prepared for all of this, not to go on few things if the situation arises that we want to do it all at once.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u29	A respectable president. Yeah, I basically agree with what. Senator. That's why I think it's so important that we legalize the constitution. It's just this occasion that I mention this law because I think it's there. It comes over and over again that something happens in politics, not just here at the Generals, not necessarily about some proposed case, that yells at me that we need a new constitution - which we were going to record shortly after 1944. There was no question about it then, but it is debated now because we have somehow established those we have now, and the system so called has gotten used to it, and is on fire scared of some changes that it experiences as giants; which are actually not giant, at least not, if you walk out of the bill of administration and monitoring committees. The proposals of the management and monitoring committee on deck. 1111 of the 141th Council has a certain limit that I would like to mention especially since I have here a few seconds. By permission of the President: It is forbidden to pass on government authority to change the Constitution or domain of the Icelandic domain or to limit human rights beyond the permission of the constitution. In all editions, it is also stated that this hall of government should always be reversible. Is that clear in the current constitution? I don't think that's clear. Happily, we have not had to deal with such subjects. But I'd appreciate it better if it were clear. I like it better if the city can read this, and we don't have to carve on it. Again, though. A senator believes that this will be a constitution - I envy it. A senator to feel that way, for it is, of course, easier - it is still our duty to consider it. If we don't get that conviction, it's our duty to come here and talk about it and to think it over when we could just do it, if we had it in a constitution like many other good things to be found in the bill of Government, saying, "It's a great deal, let's do this, hopefully the economic system will never fall apart again. That would be a good ending to this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u30	A respectable president. I'd like to say that this was an interesting discussion, which, in large measure, involved expediting rights to the constitution, but also on the subject. I'd like to reiterate what I said in response, that although it's not expected to be shaped in a deduction business or to start a business log on land, reports will still be able to happen and will do it electronically on the Internet. As for the European Court of Environment, I would like to state that I believe in the European Court that there is a clear and specific authority to hand over to the international organisations to support the international community involved in Iceland. It's a principle. But then the serious debate begins when it comes to discussing what is relative, what is limited, what is major, and what minor excrement, etc. I don't think it's going to change much about that discussion in the future, though we say in a constitution and there was a legal warrant for minor expeditation of power in restricted cases to the international institutions to which Iceland should be involved, even if we make it possible to say that, in the case of major expeditation, 3/5 of the Parliament's approval or something similar, in a manner comparable to that the Norwegians have decided to do, because even there men are able to make disagreements on the issues of major issues and minors. That is exactly the same with the Constitution and all other legislation. We want the law to be clear and understandable for all Icelanders. This will not prevent us from needing courts to settle all manner of differences. I therefore believe that even if we put in the constitution a clear document, it would be at best so that we would take a deeper discussion of how we feel about the current rights and whether we would be willing to press on to that authority, as it were. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson stopped during the discussion earlier today, saying that in recent years the proposals were put on the thresholds of expeditation, both from the council committees and from the Council of Government. Hence, it is not by itself that such a law should be written in a constitution that would be extended. I just described my opinion that I don't think there is any reason to expand the sources as they have been interpreted up to this point. This is a little different than the one I took short, the one that is about to be faced with, repeatedly, in one case after another, it is almost annual, that the European Union requires that when we adopt the European Commission, directives, or regulations, that we Icelands make ourselves available to be invited, critical, guilty, or otherwise ordered by the international organisations established by the European Union, but we have no part. This is a much more serious issue because it is actually the foundation of the EEA Convention, which is the two supporting systems we have discussed. I think it's time we make a serious opinion of the council what the EFTA status is on the basis of the EEA Convention when such demands are made by the European Union. Very quickly, it seems to me that there are really no requirements that fit the basics of the EEA community. This alone should be sufficient to force a mutual solution in every case. We've done it in some cases. It belongs, for example. ... abouta principle involving the financial market. There, we have built specific solutions after a very long negotiation process with the European Union. But then we have another example in which we are faced with much more hardship. It doesn't help when our partners on the EFTA side of the partnership have decided to compromise before we have reached a decision. Then we will be left alone with the requirement that a two - sided system be built. This is not only serious from a administrative point of view and because it is undermined by the basics of the EEA partnership but also because it is important that they support the EFTA pathway on which the EU Union is strong, are not left out and pretends to be of some extra issue, and people take a light bed, how they develop, strengthened from the increased projects, that, at the same time as the European Union is setting up new institutions or assigning older institutions, allow them to take a view of the EFTA countries to have no reason to give the EFTA-stost work. It's all very serious and it's actually added to the problem we already have, which is how few countries are standing on the EFTA side. So I wanted to make a point because I don't feel that the project has been given enough attention. I will be aware of one another's next situation that certain developments will take place that we need to take action. I feel that the foreign services and the individual Ministry have done quite well in fighting and asking for specific solutions, but we see an increase in European Community instability and perhaps increasing by Bgret, where everyone must fit in on the same convention as there are no exceptions. It is simply at the back if they are asked for solutions. We've got such a case up there now. That is why this matter is very practical to give immediate attention to this council. We need to consider how we will consider this matter further and more closely.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u31	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance for a very interesting speech. He addressed matters that are quite remarkable and may need more discussion than will fit in the form here. There's two things I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to or ask him to consider with me. This is where I witnessed to the present position. The prime minister and his question of the constitution and of the solutions we have had to live on. Has there been some special conversation between the highest. Ministers and officials of the government on this situation? At least I pretend, and I hope I don't put any words in my mouth, that there's a critical difference between government officials on this matter. V.E.G. A financial minister also mentioned another matter that seemed quite significant to me. In effect, I have to ask, " Is it the highest? ' Secretary of finance to announce that Iceland will request a review of the EEA Convention? I thought he was going a long way in that direction without actually saying it, but he could be heard in the speech of the highest. Minister to consider this situation quite seriously. I have to say, there's quite a bit of news, if I understand the Minister correctly, that Iceland feels a little isolated, another EFTA state in the EEA is yielding and flexible, but Iceland is often left on its own. That's why I'm straight. I'm the best. Secretary of finance reporting the EEA Convention's review?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u32	A respectable president. In fact, I don't think there is any difference between the members of the government, either between the Independence Party and the Left Green or Others, as a forwardal class, that it is a major factor when it comes to the office of authority, we respect the rules that apply to the outside boundaries of such exposition. True, there have been outstanding cases in the council where there have been differences in viewpoints as to whether we are on the line or on the right side of it. We've tried to solve it in the same way as we did when we were in the EEA at the time, to consult our most skilled experts, to receive counseling and interpretation, which I think will always need, even if we moved these provisions into the constitution. The event will always have to be interpreted. It's about whether or not I'm reporting a review of the EEA contract, I'm not. I am a great supporter of our building up our relationship with the European Union in the European Economic Area and this Convention. But I'm simply pointing out that it's a two-way deal. It includes rights and responsibilities, as it were, all those in it. Among the rights we agreed on when we became members of the European Economic Area was that the contract and the activity that would be carried out under its mark were based on two solid solutions. When the European Union is under pressure from one issue after another, I see no better than that we are in position to say: "Hey, this is not part of the agreement, not part of it. This cannot be requested under the flag of the EEA community. There I think we need to take a closer look at our rights and position in the European Union because that machine has a very grueling force, depending on all kinds of objections. [[The president calls.]] And, yes, there have been times when our fellow workers have given in to it. However, there is no sign of their work within the EEA Convention. But when it does, it will not help us.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u33	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the budget for the answer. Of course, the EEA contract is two-sided in that it is between the EFTA and the EU. It's not exactly the two-sided agreement between Iceland and the European Union, so we've committed ourselves to working together with the other EFTA countries within this framework. The other is then quite correct, I think, at the highest level. The secretary of finance to the EEA Convention and the European Cooperation have changed dramatically since we made the European Economic Area Convention, that's exactly right. But I also feel that it is a small part of what I did earlier that the international language is developing rapidly. Therefore, I think it is very necessary for such countries as Iceland, which, in spite of all little and highly dependent on being able to communicate with other countries and do so properly, we will consider very carefully the framework such as. The Constitution will set us up. I was not entirely convinced of answers. Ministers on unity and harmony between the administration parties to how far or dose could go in this respect. Then someone's attitude has changed. But I can't understand the highest. The secretary of finance, in fact, must be in view of the talk he gave, that he thinks this situation has become unacceptable for Iceland, so he's going to do something about it. It can hardly include anything other than wishing that the European Union will let its way of asking these things to the highest degree. Secretary of finance doesn't like it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u34	A respectable president. I want to be very clear about the requirement that we submit power to the institutions we are not involved in, that we must never do. I don't think there's any European states that would agree to do such a thing. I don't know any examples of anyone looking forward to enforcing any international organizations and their invitations without being in the relevant institutions. But that is in the basis of what the European Union is asking for in small chicken step steps. We have responded to that requirement by creating some kind of resentment between the requirement and the other solution, which is a clear two - solid solution. That's where I feel we're in a gray area, I'm telling you right now. That is also what the law books discuss. They say: It's become a very gray area. And experts are just as likely to say that it works out as if it doesn't work. The main thing to note today is that we need to recognize our position within the EEA when this requirement arises. If this begins to become increasingly common, as I think it would seem, that the European Union insists that the EFTA countries pursue the European organisations we are not involved in, they call for feedback, they must. If they lead in the end to our having to revise the EEA contract, we will. We always do so rather than agree to a requirement that is unacceptable. Not only does it conflict with the constitution but it simply makes no sense that any state would accept such a requirement.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u35	A respectable president. This is in part an answer because I feel that this is another concern that has been given for quite a while, i.e. that the EEA would always develop in this direction, that there would be an ever greater demand for us to do things the way the European Union would not have enough to say in order to protect it properly. I agree with it as the highest. The minister went over the problem. As with many other matters in this regard, this may not come as a surprise to everyone. This is one of the worries humans have had over the years. The question is, What can we do? What are we going to do about it? Yeah, at some point, we could go back to revising the EEA deal. So I wondered about Iceland's contract status, or the EFTA states, to the European Union, after the changes have taken place since 1992. It's one giant question mark of nature in the whole equation, so I can't expect to get to the highest level. A minister will answer that question right here and now how to visualize such a process, and that is not the time. But I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on how to handle this. You see, I don't think that's clear. I'll take it straight if it's not clear at this point. But I'd like to thank the highest. A minister for mentioning this because it is very important that we do so and that we discuss this without being afraid that it might offend one or two international institutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u36	A respectable president. To this end, our primary obligation is to determine our exact position and right to reject all such advances in the European Union. Then we should adopt the case in common with the EFTA states, which are on the EEA team. As a result of evolution and how predictable it was, in recent years we have seen a great effort in the European Union to increase the merger, but this has not been without exception. We have the British example to testify to this fact. And then, of course, the European Union itself gives evidence that humans have taken very different paths. Some are at the euro, some aren't. Individual nations have negotiated a distinct issue. The new countries need to swallow the entire menu, while older countries have prepared special solutions that are rooted in how the European Union was when they walked in, such as. Denmark It was not an indiscriminate requirement for entering the currency business when Denmark walked in. The new states wouldn't get away with it. The increased European Union demand for isolation has caused tension in the European Union. The tensions have broken out in various ways. We have a single example of Baltrexit. We also see that there are new political elements in many parts of Europe and that they take to heart quite a bit. It was not just a matter of substance magazine that both Holland and France in the last election were close to which state would have the upper hand in the end; those who wanted out or those who wanted to stay inside. When those who wanted to remain inside were on top, the duck was lightened. Now they are talking about intensifying the nuclear fusion work. It can again produce other consequences in other countries. Perhaps we see fewer countries with closer cooperation and then other solutions in the perimeter that will possibly reflect what the British are negotiating. [[The president calls.]] It is not good to see all of this coming, but we need to keep on the watch for our situation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u37	Hv. President. I recommend a bill to correct the conversion of electricity laws and the legislation on the establishment of Landsnets hf, with changes, on deck. 184. The bill suggests some minor changes in electrical law, No. 65/2003, and Landsnets Institutes hf, No. 75/2004. These are factors attributed to the reference work of EFTA, ESA, and factors designed for simplicity and harmony. The bill is also suggested to eliminate the value of a provision that turns toward the establishment of Landsnet and is not relevant today. In particular, the subject details of the bill are as follows: First of all, the bill refers to a change in sentence and confirmation of a so-called network, as reflected in Article 1. The bill. According to Article 9. Electrical law has been authorized by the Landsnet shipping company to establish systems established by the minister. In everyday speech, these rules are known as Internet issues and are actually a type of technical conditions. The bill suggests that the approval of the network is shifted from the Minister of Energy to the Energy Agency, which is generally in the hands of the Rapporteur to agree with such rules in accordance with the EU electricity directive. In regulations set up on the basis of electrical law, it is stated that the transport company should set up additional rules on various non-system management factors. Thus, the national networks not only deal with system management but also deal with local guidelines and business issues. The network has been divided into five categories: general terms, business terms, business terms, terms, connection terms, and design conditions. Despite the wording of 6 mg. Count 9. Current electronic power layer has been sent to the secretary of each network to confirm, no matter whether or not they defend system control. The bill responds to this, in line with the indications of Power Agency and Landsnet, and suggests that the terms of the law apply to all types of networks and, in the same way, a requirement for confirmation of the Power Agency on all networks, i.e. that all networks, not just those involved in system management, are confirmed by the existence of a controlled government that is the energy monitoring of the Power Agency. This will strengthen the monitoring of Internet sentences and ensure that the system is in accordance with the EU electricity directive. It should be noted that this change does not create a basis or provide additional sources of Landsnet to form new networks that are not present today. On the contrary, there is an ever greater demand for advising and confirmation of Internet issues. Second, the bill adds to a direct reference from an electronic law to the government's policy on the building of the electrical transport system. With law No. 26/2015, on the change in electricity law, was added to a law in electrical energy laws, that a minister should submit every four years to the General proposal for a resolution of government policies on the building of electrical transport systems. In the 9th. Current electricity layer is discussed on the structure of electricity transport systems and government policy on the fixation of electrical lines, and with the bill this is suggested to ensure harmonisation within the law, also referred to government policy on the building of electrical transport systems. A proposal for a resolution on the government's policy on the construction of electrical energy was put in an open-label interview and its updated version was submitted and adopted at a meeting of the Government on January 23 and it is scheduled to submit a judicial hearing at the General Assembly later this week. The proposal for interpretation includes suggested that the current government policy on fixing an electrical line approved in May 2015 by Congress resolution No. 11/144 values continued for one year while further research and diagnostic work occurs on the surface of ground strings as further reported in the synonym. Eventually, there is no way that a government resolution on the structure of electricity policy would also cover government policy on the fixation of electrical lines, i.e. that the latter will be a part of the same policy. However, at present it is proper that both of these policies be referred to in the electrical law. This interaction will be further established when I recommend the above proposal for a government resolution on the structure of electricity transport systems that I think will be on Thursday, at least this week. Third, the bill suggests that energy manager will submit annual reports to the Minister on the implementation of the Power Commission and the management information. In current electricity laws, energy manager is expected to submit only a report to the Minister with information to the sector due to the energy monitoring of the Power Institute. Therefore, it is suggested that the report also carry out the implementation of this monitoring, the nuclear watch. This change is proposed in view of ESA indications and the EU electronic directive that the Rapporteurs should publish annual monitoring reports. I want you to have this obligation not only to report the above but also to publish it publicly. So I want to direct it to what? Work committees to ensure that the wording of this command of electrical law also applies to the publication of the annual report, not only. Fourth, the bill is ordered to remove the regulations of Article 3. track No. 75/2004, about the establishment of Landsnets hf, which is about to be directed by Landsnet to its establishment. In the 3rd. The law states that Iceland's State Fund is the owner of all the stocks in the Landsnet in its establishment, the Minister to take the property of the state, and the government of the Landsnet shall be appointed three men to whom the Minister shall have no appointment. The Icelandic state had a preemptive for the establishment of the Landsnet designed to operate electricity transport and system management according to Article III. section 0, No. 65/2003. As shown in the bill of law No. 75/2004 was expected after the establishment of the Landsnet to appoint temporary industrial ministers, which were designed to represent the assessment of the value of transport workers, as well as other law-oriented administration procedures under local law. The government was expected to be only until the final result of the value of transport workers and thus the ownership of shareholders in the company. When that conclusion was made, a government fund would be based on a warrant in 2 mg. Section 4. track No. 75/2004 sells all their resources in the Landsnet to the owners of transport workers who laid their possessions for Landsnet on the basis of an agreement on the ownership of individual shareholders on the basis of the value of transport workers. In December 2004, Industrial and Business Ministers promoted all parts of the Landsnet State Fund to resuscitate the Landsics, Raiks, and Orcs'Western environment, while Eurostat later added to the shareholders of the Landsnet. By the deed there was 3rd par. The law really doesn't translate. The Landsnet Management Board has been organized in recent years at the main meeting of Landsnets from the Landsnet owners, i.e. the previously mentioned energy companies. The current shareholders of the Landsnet think it is desirable to increase the number of directors from three to five. In contrast, the governments of the European Union are the Directorates of the European Commission, Rarisk and Orcs Westfjorded five statesmen, and the management of energy plants set up seven men. The original three - man government of the Landsnet was designed to be a preliminary government while the Society had little or no functions. In view of present tasks and the role of the society, it is considered important to increase the number of directors. A combination must be in line with the activities and policy of the enterprise, its development stage and other relevant aspects of its management and environment. This creates an increase in the number of directors the potential for improving the variety and width of skills, experience, and knowledge. It is proposed that the approved Landsnet be changed so that there will be five executives, it will be considered normal to be the standard of the terrestrial value of the composition of the Landsnet, so that in the approved society there will be a number of government officials. With a 7. The bill I recommend here will therefore be opened to the impression that this is how the matter will be handled. V.E.G. President. I have here tore up the subject of the bill, but as an assessment of influence, it is defined in comments to the bill that if the bill becomes the law it involves a simple, consistent, fixation of the limits of electricity layer and fixes the establishment of the Landsnet. If the bill remains unchanged in the law, it is not foreordained that it affects financial expenses. So I suggest that the bill be followed by a discussion referred to why. The pro board and the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u38	A respectable president. You can't run at the highest. Minister of this country after this without merely discussing the power room and the European Economic Area. The proposals for this bill are in line with Iceland's commitments according to the EEA Convention, such as the Supreme Court. The minister came in. Under the entitlement of the government, the Council of the United States states by permission of a president under the terms of Europe and its trade: The European Commission considers the implementation of the EEA contract to be one of the most important stakeholders in Iceland, and the General Assembly needs to be more active in this. I'd like to ask in that context, and because it's the highest. Minister gives an opportunity for discussion, how to import the third energy package, i.e. The induction of these new sources of power for both ESAs and ASE, the European energy monitoring agency. I'm asking because this is a major heat issue at the Norwegian Parliament at the moment. I think I'm right about the fact that this has been placed in our contract last year, with administrative warnings that were expected to be removed by the end of the year. I'm gonna take this opportunity and I'm gonna be curious about it at the highest level. Minister - who has disappeared.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u39	Mr. President. I didn't go far, I was just writing. About the first thing you had. I will later mention this spring council with a bill, mainly on the issue of independence. But where the Council and the Summits are referred, the third package was to enter the EEA Convention, so both Norway and Iceland will carry it through the council. It's all that's left, but I assume there's going to be a lot of discussions here and possibly something in it. But it's a much bigger deal. It's a little small. Then I'll bring you another bill later on this spring. It was my assessment of having these two cases to simplify your work, making it more likely that this case would be done and done because it was ready.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u40	President. Thank you. I know that I'm going to a certain extent outside the material, but it's all connected, and it was up in the room for a talk at the highest level. Secretary of finance earlier. If I understand the highest. A minister is right to expect that in the next few weeks or months, during this council, the matter will be ready to be discussed at the General Assembly. The reason I ask is that we are naturally talking about a conversation that is a significant temperature in which it has taken place, as in Norway. These are binding decisions for ESAs for national monitoring. We are in itself talking about the sources of energy, which are newer, although they have role models in the financial sector. It is expanding the power supply to the institutions of EFTA and then indirectly to the European Union's institutions. And then, as we know, we're through our contract just an observer to the ASE or European observation agency, that doesn't have a vote right. It would be good to know if we will soon discuss these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u41	Mr. President. You're right about what you're talking about. A senator to enter the council after some weeks, anyway, this spring council. Governmental warnings will be removed in that case. If I know that correctly, the State Department will bring it back at the same time as the Foreign Affairs Committee will discuss it and then this case. Therefore, the Senate will have room to discuss the big issues that take place. A senator refers to him.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u42	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize the removal of the law on the establishment of a Southern Heat Institute, No. 10/2001, with subsequent changes, on deck. 2010. This bill suggests that the legislation on the establishment of a Southern Heat Institute Act, with subsequent changes, will be reduced to the value of the Southismium's cryoprecipitation Act. With law No. 58/2008, the change in several layers of resource and energy, including The separation of competitive and selective energy companies into two separate and independent enterprises which had independent governments prior to July 1, 2009. As a result of the accorded by the law, theatomia Southernis was hf. Down in 2008, but at her role, two independent companies, HS Orcs hf. And HS does hf. At a social meeting on December 1, 2008, the name of Southnesja Hf Heat. converted to HS Ennis hf. and then held a body meeting for a new club, HS hosts Hf. Where the Grassa Southernesa Corp. is no longer a work to cancel the law on the creation of a social reference system on Southnesi heat system. The law contains a general law on the activities of Southnesi, as well as various special regulations that are no longer applicable, to form an exception from the social law, the rights of employees of the Southnesian Heat Institute and Electrical Refjords on duty at the new partner and on the remuneration rights, as well as an authority to the government to share with the State Fund in the Southnesian Racation Office. The law also contains laws on the patenting of the company for the operating of thermals. Then the law originally contained tax and tax leaves, which were later excommunicated from the law. There is no regard for HS initiatives for hf. or HS Ennis hf. as their activities depend on current laws and are not considered to be required by special regulations or by the law to be given. This will be set up as a regulation on the temperature storage functions of the HS hosts. On the basis of energy law. Water supply is under law on rural water, No. 32/2004, and electrical activity under electrical law, no. 65/2003. HS Ennis Corporation's work. Is Under Electrical Law, No. So is 65/2003. The bill was prepared with HS hosts, HS Power and Power Institute. The agreed bill will have no effect on public interest, main stakeholders or government administration. If the bill remains unchanged in the law, that will have no effect on the income or charge of state funds. V.E.G. President. I suggest that the bill be following this discussion. The pro board and the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u43	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a committee study of a change in rural income law, No. 4/1995, with subsequent changes, of real estate. The committee has discussed the matter and was contacted by Guðni Geir Einarsson and Ólafur Hjörleifsson Hjörgesson from the Department of Transport and Division. There were reports from the Union of Iceland, Reykjavíkurburg, and the River Valley region. The bill is designed to expand the legal role of the Department of Seals, which was established when the affairs of disabled people were moved from state to rural society in 2011. The initial role of the fund, to care for the property of the government used for the services of disabled people, is now nearing completion, where all the funds under the funds have been sold, except for one that is in the trade process. The bill's report shows that the fund is still expected to leave with the rights and responsibilities of the property of the state used for the services of disabled people, including those who are disabled. where the fund is still on account of sales. In addition, funds will be permitted to balance rural status in building real estates where services are given to disabled people and people with a great need for support. At a meeting of the committee, it was observed that, in some cases, funds from the fund may include the financial resources. new to make needed changes in homes of severely disabled individuals. In the bill it is assumed that the Minister will consider the conditions and arrangements of the Regulation to agree with the professional minister of the languages of disabled people, the Union's members and the Commission of the SEC. The bill is based on the joint declaration of the transport and local minister's will, the social and equal minister and the Union of Iceland from July 6, 2017. A review by the European Union's member on the matter shows that the relationship is strongly supporting the law of the bill. The same tone is expressed in other committee reviews. The committee proposes that the bill be accepted as unchanged. Under this, Jón Gunnarsson, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Helga Helgadóttir Helgaóttir, Karl Gauti Einar Hjaltason, Linika Sævarsdóttir Anna, Maríanna Eva Ragnarsdóttir Brynjólfsdóttir Brjöynfjörnótsdótir, Árnason Vilhjálmur. A member of the Committee, what? paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson also supports the outworking of this case. A respectable president. So I suggest that the case be referred to the 3rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u44	A respectable president. I support the progress of this situation, and there is a very clever way to make use of the real estate fund that has been created. For the committee there were reporters who declared only to us the sale of property that it was described as selling them under value and low interest; for instance, this real estate treasure would be far more successful today than it is now if property prices had been obtained. I wondered if there's something that needs to be considered, how the implementation of these real estates has been in the sense of handling public funds well.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u45	A respectable president. In the management of the Commission it was reported from the Ministry that the condition of these real estates had been very different. Many of them would have needed much support. It's been considered, at any rate, that this is the way of the treaty between the European Union and the State and the transfer of this category. These are property and housing, which are often tailored to the needs of disabled persons. Thus, it may be difficult to identify the cost of the market directly. But obviously it was that as a result of a disorder, the happiness of the people who live there and live there and enjoy the services we perform as a community.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u46	A respectable president. However, the assessment of valuable possessions was conducted. It was reported that they had been evaluated for about 3.5 billion, but the cost of sales was finally about 3 billion. It was not clear whether this was later seen, that the situation had been worse, or something like that. I strongly assume that a value estimate of 3.5 billion has been precise, especially compared with the development of real estate prices in recent years. In addition, it was a sale with 2% interest, which in general is not something that can generally be done in other investments in Iceland. This would be something I'd be perfectly happy to be able to get, borrow on these terms because of my apartment. But I still wondered - in view of the valuable food that lay ahead, given the amount given, in view of the interest given - would it not be reasonable to consider whether something might go a little better in the future?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u47	A respectable president. I'm sure that's what I'm gonna do. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson can get all information on how this sale was carried out, the price of some real estate in its time. Of course, it's all in the ministry. I reiterate what I said in the past, here was a deal between the rural communities in the country and the state where the communities handled a project that is extremely important in our community and we want to do well. I'm sure that this could be the most practical event for everyone. I can honestly say as to my personal opinion that in these matters, in the case of such a delicate group, it is important not to disturb the calm of those who enjoy the ministry, as in this case, I think it is very normal that such a thing has been done with some agreement between rural society and the state. It seems that if the market leaders had been asked in this delicate matter and this case, it could have possibly brought something more into the hands of the State. But we can also imagine what it would have been like to involve all the transfers of the party and how this could have happened to us and the disorder that would have affected the people below. In this regard, I have no doubt that this work was successful, neither is there any problem in the system. The voice of a man. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear is the only person I've ever heard who doubts that this was the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u48	V.E.G. President. I want to come up to celebrate the fact that this case has come to this place, and let's get along well with it. This is an adjustment of the terms on the property treasure of rural society in a law on income-infested rural society, which aims to hide the properties of permanent roles and the equality of rural communities in building real estate used in services to disabled people with a great deal of support, as we have seen. This is an enormously sensitive, functional, and precious aspect of our society that we need to do well. I think they did it at this job. Real estate funds are being transferred from renting and selling property that the state has previously used in the services of disabled persons to balance with the financial resources of the rural community in building real estates that are useful to the services of disabled people with great and/or specific needs. By accepting this bill, I feel that it will have a positive effect on the development of rural society on housing services to disabled people with great and specific needs. I agree with everything that's happened about it. We need to strengthen and strengthen the income populations of our rural society in their assigned role. There's been a lot of telecommunications, but the funding has not always been followed, as the examples prove. This must be a good part of it. If you read the reviews of the case at an earlier stage, you will find that very positive. It has also been observed that the situation has, unfortunately, been such in many rural areas that important projects have not made progress or have been started because funding has not been enough. If this helps to correct that situation, and we can more fully cherish those to whom it needs to be applied, how happy we will be! I'm glad we're done.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u49	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize the law of Icelandic civil rights and children's law. The bill of the same material was presented for a 146th legislature but was not granted them. These are changes that are particularly relevant to those who are not citizens or who have come to a country as a child. The goal of the bill is to prevent citizenship by making it easier for those who do not have citizens to gain citizenship. The bill also presents a challenge to young people whose lives have been set here to obtain an Icelandic citizen's right. Then it is suggested to simplify the registration of the Icelandic citizenship of a child born abroad and of an Icelandic father and a foreign mother who is not married. In addition, when an Icelandic adopted parent lives abroad during the adoption, a change in court treatment is proposed for registration of the Icelandic civil rights of adopted children. Finally, a change in child law due to assisted reproduction techniques is proposed in a foreign country. This is a variety of changes in the current civil rights law to children and the stateless state. On the other hand, the bill is intended to ensure improvement in terms of the preparation of two UN treaties for the lack of citizenship. This is a 1954 - year contract on the rights of nonconvicting individuals and on the other hand, a 1961 contract to reduce the loss of citizenship. Then we have the bill prepared, including has been consulted with the United Nations Refugee Organization, which began a campaign at the end of 2014 that is scheduled to last for 10 years with the guidance of the global destruction of statelessness. A respectable president. I'm going to briefly review the major changes proposed in the bill. These are: First, it is suggested that if one parent is an Icelandic citizen regardless of whether the child is born in the country or abroad or whether the child's parents married, he or she is born in the country. The change in wording is also suggested that references to the words "father " and" mother " be given instead of the word parent. This statement will also apply to a woman who has agreed that assisted reproduction techniques should be applied to her wife or to a partner. The change mainly concerns children who are born abroad and has an Icelandic father who is not married to a foreign mother. The change is to balance the right children of an Icelandic parent to gain an Icelandic citizen's right to birth. To date, it has been necessary to request citizenship for the child at the Foreign Institute and pay for it, but with the change, the child's registration will only need to be requested by national records. The child then automatically gets an Icelandic citizen's rights, as usual, e.g. with children born abroad when parents are married. However, I still insist that, at the same time, this adjustment is added to the provision of Iceland's Constitution to request data in order to confirm that the condition of a child's registration is met and that the Minister shall set further regulations in the Regulation on the data to confirm the birth of a child and its parent. Second, there are several laws on the right of children to gain Icelandic citizenship. Aim them even. to extend the time that young people have today to wish for an Icelandic citizen. Others are newcomers and are concerned with the legal authority of children who are stateless or who have received international protection in order to request an Icelandic citizen. For example, a slight change in the prospects of those moving to a country is suggested at a young age but have reached 18 in order to request civil rights in a simpler way than with an application. So the warrant is a length to 21 instead of 20 years of age. Furthermore, the residence of these children is required here on earth from seven years to five years. Then there is a far greater authority than in the current law for a stateless child who has come to a country of years or a child who has been protected internationally. It is thus suggested that in such cases, you can request citizenship for a child after a three - year residence in this country until your 21 - year - old. A law on a child born on the land that is without a citizen has been in Icelandic law for a long time. It is now suggested that verbal therapy be simplified and that the subject could be required for a child in this position up to 21 years of age instead of now 18 years of age. Then there is a requirement for the birth of a child on board a modern ship or an aeroplane, which is in accordance with the Treaty of the United Nations from 1961 to reduce the loss of citizenship. Third, it is suggested that after five years of living in this country, adults who are not citizens can submit their citizenship application, but the general rule is today seven years. Is this in harmony with the law of the fugitives who have come to the country and meet the definition of the international agreement on the status of refugees made on July 28, 1951, as well as on those who have been emancipated on welfare grounds. Fourth, a small change in the treatment of a case is suggested when the Icelandic ideal parent who lives in a foreign country has adopted it according to national rules. It is suggested that this case be handled by the businessman in the capital area, not today's Foreign Institute, but today. Furthermore, a adopted child before he is 18, is suggested to receive an Icelandic citizen's right to confirm adoption rather than a 12 - year - old. Finally, a change to page 6. the children's law to allow Iceland's National Registry to evaluate the validation of a foreign - language assisted reproductive techniques when a married woman is married or married to a baby conceived in assisted reproduction techniques with the mate's approval. The value of the data and the rules for ART in each Member State will be determined by the national registry, and the Minister shall set up additional regulations in the Regulation on this type of data. Current legislation suggests that in the case of such ARTs, it has been necessary for established health care facilities in this country when a woman who is married or married to children. For my review, I set out the regulations of 2 and 3rd. Section 6. children's legislation, referred to by this adjustment, deals with assisted reproductive techniques, which include the approval of a spouse or a partner to accept such a parent. Then I would also like to justify this change in proposal is not yet being opened to the possibility of a local tunneling. Local administration is prohibited in this country, such as the legislation on assisted reproduction techniques and the Supreme Court's judgment in case of No. 367/2016 discusses. According to 1st mg. Section 6. The child - law is the one who gives birth to a baby conceived in ART as her mother. Syllables offered to be added to the 6th floor. Furthermore, a child is not taken into account as a woman born without marriage or living with an Icelandic man or woman. The bill presented here is part of the legal reforms needed for Iceland to meet agreements previously mentioned, the United Nations Convention on Unauthority. By a new law on foreigners who entered into force on January 1, 2017, new legislation on foreigners was adopted, which also aims to ensure improvement as a result of the validation of these agreements. This bill suggests that there will be complete acceptance of the preparation of these agreements. A respectable president. So I have explained the subject of the bill and suggested that it be followed by this discussion referred to why. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u50	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister of Justice for reporting this bill and its contents. There are some proposals to change the law of the Icelandic citizen's rights that is introduced there, especially that are subject to the changes made by unsettled children. However, it is important to note that the requirement for a child to stay for three years from the birth of a stateless birth is to be seen in the committee that treats the bill because three years in a child's life can be a happy time, and the absence of a government should not be the case with children. There's one thing I'd like to consider too, that's with the time when a child is registered to this country. Is there a child registered on arrival, or when he has obtained a permit here? That's the way it's been done here so that time actually doesn't start counting until the baby has been enrolled into the country and it has a permit. The time between the arrival of a child and the arrival of a certain position in this country may take up to two years and even longer. Then a child has stayed in this state for five years, if that is the case. I ask you, when should this deadline begin? I see time is running out, I will ask you another question here in the second speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u51	A respectable president. I can't figure out why. A senator on time, huh? A senator may explain this further. It is right to assume that the bill is largely a stateless subject. In case of a moment. A senator was referring to children who are stateless then I want to know that it is extremely rare here until Iceland to see a stateless people, adults or children. But there is a possibility that, after a few hours, the state's inmates will be able to obtain citizenship here. A reason is considered to have some time limit so that, especially children, it is evident that they have some connection with the country that they have stayed here before they receive a citizenship on this foundation. Is this in accordance with the rules and standards of the International Refugee Agency which provided counseling with the bill's contract. It might be nice, if that's true. A senator would refer to this if any more accurate explanation was needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u52	Madam President. What the senator meant is, perhaps, that time does not begin with those who come here and are stateless, or are born here and left unregistered, until the application is completed. It's the reality I'm referring to and building on my work. You cannot start counting until you have had a legitimate stay, so all this time can pass. There are other questions that burn in the councilman. It's also about Section 16. a law on Icelandic civil rights, which affects the individuals born before 1964 who followed Father's citizenship at that time, whether or not the Ministry considered something to meet the individuals whose mother is Icelandic rather than a foreign father, followed Father's citizenship at that time. In any case, we have received reports of one of those that have twice been denied Icelandic citizenship for the Council and for the National Institute of Iceland because of the 16th chapter. The law won't allow it. Then that's the final question about this bill, and I'll direct it to the highest level. Minister of Justice: Who won this bill? Was it the staff of the Ministry that gave advice on its contract? Or is this bill from the minister of justice alone? I think it is necessary that a Senate world be informed about this, especially after the Justice Minister declarations in recent days and weeks, regarding the fact that they do not consider themselves obligated to follow the Ministry's advice on the issues it gives.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u53	A respectable president. This, of course, is all the perplexing tips in the field. A senator is subject to who held the pen and wrote the bill presented here. I would point out that the minister standing here is also a senator, and he has every authority to offer bills like the rest of this hall. However, it is not in this case that the one here wrote the bill. This is made clear in the report and comments that it is written at the Ministry of Justice and that the bill of the same material written at the Ministry of State was previously delivered and was not now the minister here in the State Department. It also states that when the bill was prepared, among other things, it was addressed to the United Nations Refugee Organization for Refugees, as well as to some very broad consultations with members, ministers of children, and others. It was also stated by the release of this same case that at previous Parliaments, many of them were widely consulted with the Red Cross and with the rest of the Board of Education and provided excellent tips and were taken into account in the restructuring and remuneration of the bill. Hv. A senator can sleep slowly if she does not trust this minister to the prime minister's proposal here. But materially, there is a reason. (b) What will be considered in the next article? ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u54	Madam President. I'm thinking about asking the highest. Minister in particular to Level 6. The bill, about the length of residence. We're demanding a five-year period for stateless individuals who come here. That is, so was the minister's case, the same delay as the fugitives have, i.e. The same time that has to pass on refugees until they can apply for an Icelandic citizenship rights. I ask, in view of the fact that we are trying to counteract the lack of citizenship, whether it was considered a short period of time and even having it three years, as it were for children. A statelessness is a very serious situation that I think we should be quick to correct. And then I wanted to ask about the rule that babies born here on the land of statelessness need to live here for three years to get an Icelandic citizenship. Why was it decided to follow a path in which the United Nations Convention to reduce the lack of citizenship allows for a much simpler way of life to be given to state at birth? It was suggested last time and I see that it has not been taken into account, i.e. that instead of having a child wait for three years, citizens will simply be granted at birth. I would like to ask why it was decided to have the five - year - long period for adults without a state address and three years for children born without a citizen. Does a minister have reason to shorten that delay with regard to the seriousness of being stateless?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u55	A respectable president. About 6. the bill that shows up to the candidate who claims to be stateless in accordance with legal requirements, that he needs to have been living here for five years, is exactly in the form of comments to the article that this is in line with the United Nations Refugee Agency's recommendation to reduce the loss of citizenship. In terms of the time limit it is suggested that this remain unchanged, that a five - year load may be the basis for a citizen's interest. It meets the definitions in the international agreement on the status of refugees mentioned earlier. I got it. I got it. A global and educational committee to discuss it specifically in their work. I hope there'll be reviews of the bill as it is now. But like I said last year's answer to another what? A senator has been taken into consideration the well - being of the comments presented in reviews of the case at previous councils. I'm sure that's more of a talk. The same is true of the three - year term that applies to children born without a citizen. I'm going to make right what I said earlier, it's very rare above the head to come here looking for people who don't have any money. Yet, increasing the number of refugees may now be increasing. I also have to bear in mind that while they don't have papers or IDs that prove where they came from, they don't necessarily have no citizenship. They don't necessarily have no citizenship. But I hope that all these deadlines will be discussed at the moment. Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u56	Madam President. I'm asking the highest. Minister of this very indication. If I recall correctly, there was one of the last indications that there was a good definition of what would appear to be a statelessness in Icelandic rights. That's even. The opinion that the individual will live in the condition that no Member States will recognize him as their citizen. I see an incident where children are born with refugees, refugees in this country, who are unable to obtain papers, but they cannot gain recognition of their nationality because they are refugees from their own country. I'm asking the highest. Minister of Justice: Who in the Ministry of Justice decided to do this? It was the highest. Minister here or any other minister? Then I wanted to ask you if it's the highest. A minister finds it sufficient to make a point to explain the definition of the lack of citizenship means over his head so that these laws can be adhered to appropriately. Who decided not to take the indication to make sure that there is much more clear in the law how there is no citizenship defined here?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-06-22.u57	A respectable president. Definition of a stateless state has not been a problem with handling matters here, and it is used in international terms in that field. As far as I know, there is no need for correction or a legal basis for decisions made on the basis of a government in Icelandic law. It's all worked, as it is described here, in collaboration with a number of people, as I came on in my previous answer, and has been in front of its presentation outside. Everyone will have an opportunity to give a review of this bill. Senators themselves have every opportunity to convey their views. I have no doubt they will and the public will. The bill is available, it is available on the Generals Web site, and it has actually been available for introductions on the Department of Justice website. Special references to specific sources most familiar with this category will be requested. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator should keep his doubts or doubts about some form of indiscriminate viewpoint on the work of this bill, which many experts have worked hard on, until the bill comes as a vote.
