ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u1	The President has received a request to resume a report request. Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson again calls for a report on the threshing floor. 20 Case 20 on the tip of the Aldulis study reports.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u2	Borist has received a letter from a travel, industrial, and innovation minister asking for an invitation to give a written answer to a spell query. 81, of the business plans and disposition of the Society's New Arts Fund, of Jón Valdimarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u3	To answer, financial and economic minister, education and cultural minister, travel, industrial and innovation, social and equality ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u4	Mr. President. I've been thinking about student positions lately and taking a few conversations with them over a number of issues, including A psychiatric service in college, a conquistador proposal made by reverends and more senators, on the contrary, will open up and hopefully get an opportunity to discuss. But I've seen a lot of anxiety among students in particular after the results come from the loans. Students have been waiting for quite some time, sort of a long time, after blundering, and the decision to make a real organization on the loan. There have been three review committees in progress, and the fourth is on the way. There are two different prime radios, which we discussed in the campaign. On the one hand, it is the bill that came from the Independence Party, Illugi Gunnarsson's son, then the minister of education, and then the minister before him, who is now prime minister, the Katrín of Jakobsdóttir Jacobs. These are quite different from the basics, but there are a number of things that can be used to make use of them. It's going to say "A" to the top. Minister of Education, another version of the system. All this time, the students are sitting on their own. Some of the students who started studying when the revision work started are even finishing a doctor's test today, this is the long time. So I must ask the highest. Minister: What are we waiting for? Why hasn't a new group of workers been assigned to enter the tone of the change in plans for a minister? Why has the management board not yet been appointed, which is to accept new distribution rules for the second April 1st? It is clear to me that this must be done as quickly as possible. Students need clear answers. They can no longer wait and deserve better terms and especially the destruction of uncertainty in their environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u5	Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It's true that the review has taken way too long. You haven't finished revising the loan law for eight years. The reason that the government has not yet been appointed is that the minister here would be especially careful. A relationship between management and project management needs to be very good. I'm looking for specific qualities for the person, both their thinking, their social responsibility, their financial skills, and the legal skills needed to enter there. The project and the board need to work together very well. I agree that it's taken way too long. I'm working with an General and Education Committee on that job. It will be a close partnership. But I think that's what. A senator does not have to worry that these ministers will be passive in this regard. I also look forward to working hard. A senator in charge of these matters. I'd also like to say that I'm very pleased with the Congress resolution as well. A senator announces. It is in the spirit of the government covenant. We want to add psychological services, not just in college, but in high school as well. You can be informed here that I and the highest. The health ministers were meeting on that matter yesterday, where we are going to work together on the progress of these matters, the Ministry of Health and Education, and how we can make them more efficient and accessible. There's a very good deal going on here. I look forward to carrying them out.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u6	Mr. President. I agree with the highest. Minister. There is a need for action. However, I wondered, " Do I need to be reduced to such an extreme degree in appointing a board of directors? ' Not unless it's the highest. In effect, a minister is declaring the lack of confidence in the current government of LIN. I don't know any better than it's a perfectly organized, qualified individual. have legal education and ambition in social responsibilities. But okay. I understand that the minister wants to put his emphasis on the board, but I encourage her to resolve these matters as soon as possible. As far as I can see, I'm not sure I've had any answers about when the Minister is going to finish these matters. When are you going to appoint the Accounting Committee? When do you put the board in charge? When do we see the end of these matters? As a minister could rightly be, eight years is a long time. The doctor's program is finished with those who were starting their studies when all these work started. The students deserve clear answers from a government minister who has announced the infrastructure. We're going to support the government in the infrastructure, but it's gonna have to get to work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u7	A respectable president. It is so that the order of this government is in the final meters, so to speak. It's a bit fun to stand here and be witnesses, again and again, to the old-fashioned politics as well. A senator for hours. It's quite clear that this government is new to us. The fact that the minister wants a problem, when appointing a new government, does not mean that we are not doing our job. Of course not. This is where it's revealed. We're in the final meters to command them. Like what? A senator mentioned it as eight years ago. Nothing's happened. It's not done exactly because the Minister is trying to do a good job and I think it's a little old-fashioned politics and only to create suspicion against the government and the government, who is truly with a good mind on the matter as should be known by a Senate.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u8	A respectable president. In 2010, with all paid votes at the General Assembly of Congress it was adopted that Iceland became a highly legal position for freedom of expression and information. On September 9, 2016, the Department of Education and Culture appeared, four of which were the results of the work that began at the approved proposal. They even covered. ... abouthate propaganda, decommissioning data tanks, limited responsibility of the host and misgivings and all of these are prime stories designed to improve Iceland's communication and information freedom. Then it is correct to also agree to this proposal in 2010 that Iceland's reputation grew very much, and some software companies here in Iceland and hosters have come to realize that they are involved because of the belief that Iceland has this remarkable special position. Sadly, this is not yet the case, since these bills have not yet been adopted in the General Assembly. They were submitted at the time of trouble. A member of the council, Birgitta Jónsdóttir, but as far as I can see, it is still responsible. Minister to supply these four primes. I didn't see them in a list of the General Assembly on the Education and Culture Constitution, so I would like to ask that question to the highest level. Whether to contribute these bills or to the situation, regardless.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u9	Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I'd like to start by saying that these matters are very important. You're right. One senator says, there is much good in the 2010 proposal and a forward thinking that is on the table. For work related to freedom of expression and information, a report was issued correctly on the state of Iceland's Special Public Media, which is certainly involved in these issues, how we can direct the production of the fourth-powered media. We always need to consider freedom of expression and information. With regard to the Constitution, this is not a matter for the Minister's schedule, as the situation is today. However, we are looking at that matter at the Ministry, and I am very interested in further researching what may be used, especially all that will increase Iceland's global reputation so that we can be on an even greater guard in freedom of expression and information.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u10	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. In fact, I don't agree that there's a particular point of view there. I usually want to go beyond most of my colleagues when it comes to freedom of expression and information, there's a situation I can't help but wonder how in the world things are. But that's another story. The status of the individual media is good and blessed, and I am able to say that it defended the material. On the other hand, there has been a long time ahead of us to do this. Now it's 2018, the vote is adopted in 2010. V.E.G. Since a minister says that he is considering the use of these bills, I have to ask: Is there anything that stands in the way of this project? Will the minister offer these bills to the next council, or to the next council, or to the next one, or to the next? In the preferential season? Is there any objection within the Ministry for any reason or other reason that the matter is delayed? I'm asking because I can't see better than that the bills are ready to be discussed at the General Assembly with the report and all the packages, and I don't quite understand what would hinder their contribution today, much less during the election season.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u11	A respectable president. As I mentioned earlier, these matters are being considered within the Ministry. It is true that much information, information, and a certain forward thinking are presented, but this decision has not been made at this point, especially on the contribution of this council. As I say, this is an opinion, and there's a lot of good things in this that I'm going to use and think about how we can have a positive effect on anything that has to do with the freedom of expression and information.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u12	A respectable president. This is clearly an urgent problem that we have many in mind because I have a similar request and why. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir was with her daughter. I'd like to direct a question to the highest level. The Minister of Education for Lilja Alfreðsdóttir's Daughter on the Affairs of Icelandic students. Recently, student council and other groups of students have brought this matter to a good attention. I let go of the first question, for it was shown earlier and with regard to when the fund's new regime will stand. I remind you, though, that it's not just an old-fashioned politics, it's about the life and interest of young families in the country. I'd like to hear an opinion of the highest order. Minister of the enforcation, whether or not she finds it fatal for students to live at 177,000 bucks. before beginning impairment. In this regard, it is worth remembering that since 2014 the student's vacation market has not increased. In this context, it is also appropriate to remember that only 9% of the students at HI get inside of students'gardens, others have to rely on a public tenet as the situation is there. The forward is, in fact, far below the Ministry of Health. This low contribution and this low - income market will place students in a cycle, for they will have to work more and more with the study, which is full of work, as we know.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u13	A respectable president. I am so happy to see the interest that the World of Congress at the Icelandic loan Fund. You're right. It's very important what the setting is. Especially is it true that everyone has the right to study as well as the right to study. For the question of the why. Of course, a senator's aim for the government is to improve the interests of the Icelandic students and to strengthen all the work around them. It's amazing that we, lawgivers, have not completed an eight-year review. But I can assure you that this government will complete that review. We will also cooperate greatly with the student movement. Hence, we have also been preparing very carefully for the work and how we do it. Special emphasis on cooperation and consultation with students and all involved in this matter will be given because it did not work out well enough last time. That's why I want to learn as a minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u14	I also want to stress the need for full study sessions. I want less than ever. For example, a minister and a body of Congress said that the loan fund of Icelandic students was thought of as a means of promoting an equation and social stability in the country. He was designed to be a kind of equation between those who come from wealthy homes and those who do not have a strong financial sponsor, and he plays a most important role in our country life as such. As in the situation of this fund, he does not neglect his role.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u15	A respectable president. I agree with what's going on here. It is true that a setting of care around the fund and how we plan these matters for the future is of vital importance. Another development that has been taking place in the past five years is a far greater emphasis on everything called the ongoing education and the opportunities of those who want to be reeduced. When we review these laws, I would also like to take into account this, so, of course, we would always consider the financial status of students, but also that the age distribution of students who have access to education. In view of the changes in technology that are taking place, it is clear that many will need re-education. I think it's very important that society nurtures it and helps people to have equal opportunities to study away from their economic or social situation in life.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u16	V.E.G. President. In recent years their voices have become louder and louder, wanting to find a new place for the future, and in view of this, there is reason to call attention to the matter at the Assembly Hall. People have expressed concern about the availability of the hospital service, and there is no longer any basis for it. It is claimed that the approach to the University of Iceland is important, and it is certainly important to be in close proximity to the educational community, but it is possible to wonder whether it outweighs, the availability of those who use the service of the National Hospital or the presence of construction at the University of Iceland. It's not that I know that people are running between HI and LSH every day, but it's quite ready for those in need at the hospital to be inhabitants of this country and their interests to outweigh. Bioavailability to the hospital today is not well, and it has recently been reported that there is a greater need to slow down in the neighborhood of the hospital during the planned period of construction and is slow enough. This is despite the growth of the population and the increased number of tourists in the country. It is quite clear that planning and access have changed, the focus of the population is no longer in a radius around the Circle Course, that is much east, and that is also affecting the interests of neighbors as well as the interests of the whole country. Another factor that matters in the discussion is the availability of staff at the hospital, so I am curious about the opinion of employees on the location of the National Hospital. They must have a voice about access and organization. You can't expect them to come to work on a bicycle or on a bus. Granted, it is good to encourage public transportation or bicycle travel, but it is difficult to see how employees should give in and without any choice to compromise. Also, if the National Hospital is to be built near the population itself and therefore the medical staff at the hospital, e.g. ... atCalvenahol or Vifilus. In a informal survey conducted by health care professionals, including hospital transporters, it was found that a greater proportion of them are opposed to continuing in the construction of the Ring Way. It can be noted that a new national hospital in a new location does not take longer than any project planned in its entirety on Ring Road, which may even cost less. As an introduction to these speculations, it can be noted that our neighboring nations have chosen to go on the way of building new hospitals in the perimeters, not in cities or towns, where access is best available. It allows for the opportunity to attract staff, so it needs to be determined whether to find another place to go. The benefits to me are clear. It brings good, spiritual, and physical benefits to all. Patients, caregivers and staff will view the project with a positive view. Organizational affairs are about social setting, and everyone in his life has to go to a hospital or associate with someone who does, and in the countries around us, seems to have come to realize the fact I mentioned earlier with a location. So I ask: What is the mind of the hospital staff to present ideas about the location of the National Hospital? What organizational factors indicate that the national hospital is not to be built at the Ring Road? What prevents the making of a new standard analysis for the national hospital? Finally, I would like to point out that the location of a national hospital is not just about organization and construction; hospitals are about emotions; and often and times, both life and death; joy and grief; hence, it is important that problems arise and act wisely. That's why I've been asking for this discussion here today, and I've been following the answers with interest. Ministers, as well as those willing to assist.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u17	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. Valuable for bringing up a case on the construction of a land hospital at the Ringtrack that has long been waiting for. The situation has been repeated, and I think it is very good to have the opportunity to cross the decision to build up on the Ring Way and how it would have been an effect to change that decision now, in fact, 16 years after the decision was made. In January 2002, a work committee on the future construction of the Land Hospital ▪ University Hospital suggested to the then health minister that the new hospital be restored to the Ring Road. At a special press conference at the end of January 2002, where the committee presented its proposal, a health minister, Jón Kristjánsson, declared that he proposed his group. This finding was based on a thorough comparison of three locations, i.e. On a circuit, on Fos Cove, and on a Vifil position. A foreign advisory company had been made to evaluate these three benefits in terms of access, connections to Iceland's University and Central City, access capacity and access to property, construction construction, construction time, and cost. During the 16 years since the decision to build up a Hospital on Ring Road, the matter has regularly been restored. A formal evaluation of the need to alter the local setting was e.g. The 2008 results were the same as before, i.e. that the best location for a new college hospital was on the Ringtrack. Hv. A senator first asks, " What is the mind of the hospital staff to present ideas about the location of the National Hospital? ' Then it is to say that since the Council adopted a new Hospital Building on Ring Road on July 22, 2010, hundreds of hospital workers have participated in a large number of user groups, workshops, and so on. This group of key personnel has been the only ones to determine the location. Of course, at a large workplace with over 5,000 employees, there are some who do not want to build their work up on the Ring Road. That discussion, however, has never been loud in the hospital, but it has not been prominent in the media, as the case shows. The apocalyptic. The medical care, nursing care, and staff advice of the Land Hospital have regularly given support to this building. Then, at the beginning of this century, the Hospital's Department of Health and Development Commission formally proposed that the future construction of the Ring Road would be carried out. Hv. Second, a senator asks what organizational factors indicate that the national hospital is not to be built on the Ring Road. In order to answer that such a location will ensure the fastest development of the long line of services required for the hospital's housing and thus for the health - care system. Some 55 thousand square miles [555,000 square feet] of the current residence at the Circle Road Hospital are designed to continue to be used for the work. The cost of new buildings is some 600,276,800. K. on square meters. Thus, the building on Ring Lane is the very best option. Thus, other possible locations require much more new buildings and thus increase the cost of construction. The relationship at the two university is also important. Hv. A senator made this statement only and the terms that are certainly there, but the university has placed great emphasis on this neighborhood. Hv. A senator then thirdly asks what would prevent a new standard analysis for the National Hospital. Then I would say that if the hospital was to be organized in a new location, the main community's organization, which says Reykjavíkurburg, would need to be modified and organized on the basis of the changed main structure. There would have to be analysis and consultation with stakeholders and development proposals. According to the two parties best known in these matters within our administration, i.e. However, the administration of the State's administration and the Organization could be assumed that if the construction of a new land hospital would begin in a new location now, it would delay the dispensing of a new hospital by about 10◯15 years. This is disassembled into primary checks, diagnostic work, plan, consultations, etc. A respectable president. During the 16 years that have passed since the decision to build the Land Hospital on Ring Road, nine health ministers have ruled from five political parties. All these ministers have spoken of the construction of the Land Hospital on Ring Way and also the one here, although they were not content with the funding of the project. During discussions at the General Assembly over the years, there has been quite a political agreement on the matter, but 56 members of the council agreed on their vote on May 16, 2014, which was so said, by permission of the president: ...to finish as soon as possible to rebuild and build up Home Hospital at the Reykjavík Circle Course and begin once funding has been secured. One of the 56 senators was disturbed. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u18	A respectable president. We're discussing interests for the whole nation. Thank you very much for the initiative, okay? paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir. It is not as if this big, important project was being prepared. As shown by the Supremev. Ministers at least 16 years ago, the final decision was made. General meetings, ministry, committees, working groups, professional groups, and review groups have arranged for this work and preparation. Ministers after secretarys have worked on this preparation, had doubts, considered the matter from a new angle, had reports made, and then changed their mind. The result is always the same: Our most skilled transport engineers say that the hospital can make a different route of transportation because it has produced it. A director has expressed himself on the subject, stating that years of analysis are behind the choice, the conclusion that this is definitely the best one, and is acting in this regard with a variety of organizational reasonings. All infrastructures are located on Ring Road, many buildings that will continue to be used. The Ring's Baby's Hospital is for example. A relatively new house. I have so much faith in man and his intelligence that I am confident that every stone was rolled over in this great and important matter of interest to get to the place we are now, including the interests of employees, which is the key. Let us turn back again and unite to improve the setting of the Land Hospital. There's no time to waste. At the same time, of course, we should begin to prepare a new future hospital, and immediately do so, a future hospital, in a new place, and give ourselves a good time to do so, separate from territory, and stay awake in that environment. Let's not take this case out any further.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u19	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Eagle Daughter for taking the initiative in this discussion here. In fact, it came to the very conclusion that during the recent years, there had been an increasing number of skeptics. In fact, I'm going to question it because there's nothing in recent years, it's in the past decades that we've been discussing this matter. I can say that if we were here ten years ago, I would probably have been in the skeptic group, I've been here for a long time. Why are we heaping up all the biggest working places in the capital area at the Western tip, the University of Reykjavík, the University of Iceland, and the Land Hospital? This does not change the fact that in the past 20 years, this matter has been discussed, and several local committees have reviewed this, foreign experts, it has been discussed in this hall of my predecessors, it has been discussed in the city of Reykjavík, at the scene of the regional structure of the capital area. Throughout history, this matter has been discussed. For some reason, the conclusion has always been that we need to build up on Ring Road. Since I'm more interested in discussing the future, I think we need to resolve on this vital project, which is building a land hospital on the Ring Road, or renewing that house. The hospital has been completed, the treatment core has to be completed in the first and then the laboratory. I don't know how far we should go. I think it is important that we look to the future in terms of the need for another building, another medical facility in the capital area after some decades. In view of how long it takes for us to talk things over and to reach some conclusion, it may be good for us to take that discussion now. Nine health ministers from five or six political groups have had doubts, reviewed the case, and the result has always been this. The case has also been reviewed by the city council of Reykjavík, and serious doubts have been raised throughout the city, but this has always been the case. Let us keep our minds fixed on the future and focus on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u20	President. In many cases, it is very difficult to distinguish between facts and opinions among the leading leaders on either side of the table. Overseers have had a lot to do with what they have been doing. It has often been noted that all driving grounds around the hospital during earlier observations are smiled, both by increased traffic and by the termination of the former major organization of Reykjavík. The recent loss has been a policy of Porta's future location as far as the Hospital's Hospital is concerned, regardless of professional, open-label evaluation of options for the hospital's future location and if there are no benefits to be excluded in advance. The results are also expected to be forwarded so that they can understand individual aspects of assessment and, following the presentation of these assessments, a national agreement or a careful poll with which the country can choose the cost of the food best. Newly proposed Senate resolution. paritaprevir The exact same route, except for the idea of national pay, is seen by Árnadóttir Kolblönnadóttir. She is a fine start, despite the fact that I would like to make a special point of saying that assessment factors are distinct so that the benefits can be assessed in different ways according to criteria considered important. President. Building is one thing, and service is another thing. While financial resources cannot be guaranteed at land hospitals, bought needed medication, or secure the minimum security of patients, it is futile to spend the money of the State in concrete and think that it will solve the problem. The prison at Hólmsheki is an example of a public project that looks good on paper but has not yet been new. As long as there is no funding to increase the number of prison guards, so there is no mention of staff guarding the mental health and rehabilitation of prisoners, there is no point in building a new prison for 3 billion. The same is true of the land hospital. The girl herself doesn't cure people. This is done by doctors, medical staff, nurses, radiologists, cooks, cleaning personnel, and all the important staff that works in the hospital. But, yes, let's finish one more report, and let's do it properly and professionally this time, let's just choose the rest. But let us not forget that without money for business, that report will not matter to people's health.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u21	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir The Eagle's Daughter for the discussion. V.E.G. A minister was very careful about the emphasis of the verbal vendetta and the time process, both the discussion of the location and the decision there, over a period of almost two decades. During that time, many people, including the politicians, have repeatedly supported this decision. I can imagine listening to the political bitch's decision to do one thing by agreeing with the structure of the Ring Road and saying it's always another; another place, new hospitals, against the decisions that have already been taken, rather than finishing plans for improved facilities. This project must have to be about improving the work status and performance of a land hospital so that he is in the position to render the best possible service, to make use of existing buildings. That's the most practical option. The fact is that the hospital's facilities cannot tolerate a waiting situation, nor can any further uncertainty arise. of political discussion. Of course, that does not mean that for a long time there will not be a new hospital built in a new location. It is probably wise to consider sooner than later to the nearest hospital but to complete the planned design of facilities, infrastructure, and equipment according to plans. Current level. The government has great ambition in health matters and confirms this in a government covenant that includes the government. will start with a new treatment core Hospital this summer. I welcome the 2014 Generalis resolution plans to hide the government I was assigned to complete the preparation of a land hospital's renovation and construction program on the Ringway. That's what we're supposed to be doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u22	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank the advising needs and good discussions. For good reason, she comes up here and now. Of course, no one's gonna hide that we want a serious college hospital. We really want to build a way to the future that everyone can enjoy and that everyone can take advantage of the service that our hospital should render to us. I heard the highest. A health minister speaks of this decision being made 16 years ago and that it had been going through the system ever since. The question, though, is, What was the basis for that decision? Was it the essential thing for me, e.g. who live in the Grafarholt would take 45 minutes to an ambulance, if I were to get sick in the morning, to be in the service of the university hospital? It'll take me 45 minutes. Maybe I should be thrown into the city line because she's supposed to be the quick way down to the hospital for me? I'm just saying, I'm sure it is, even though billions of people have already come to the conclusion of this matter, acknowledging that there may be a mistake. All the grounds are smiling. It's going to cost a lot more than that to get our street system in a proper shape so that we can use it and get to the hospital without delay when we need it. It would be a disaster if the situation, which is no doubt going to be the case, came to us somewhere in the traffic, and beamed the breeze because we could not get to our hospital. I haven't yet spoken about the mold problem in the squares as high as possible. A health minister earlier mentioned that we could use it. How many of the thousands of square feet of mold are damaged and will have to keep working?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u23	President. There is widespread social agreement that the facilities of the national hospital need to be replaced. The land hospital now operates in less than 20 locations in the capital area, and most of the 100 buildings used by the hospital were built in 1950. In view of the great changes that have occurred at this time in the role and general functioning of hospitals, it is long established that the current state does not respond to today's demands, either patients or staff, and has not responded for a long time. There is also the huge cost of operating the Land Hospital in the most adverse way that the present housing will bring. It is my opinion not to continue building on Ring Road. That position is not at all unconcerned, and not necessarily perfect. However, many benefits come from building up there where much older buildings can be used. The building of the Children's Hospital is the most important place in which public transportation is enjoyed, as well as in view of research and teaching, in Iceland's University and the University of Reykjavík and the community of knowledge that is building up in the Hydromosis. In addition to this, I'd like to mention that there is a professional assessment like the director of the Land Hospital and the surgeon that it is simply a dangerous idea to build on Ring Road while otherwise searching for a location and then restart the priming process. It's long since it's time for us to come together and just finish this thing. However, it is also clear that we can add very much to the decision of public investments and projects. In this regard, there is a synonym that has signed for the council, along with other members of the council, on the guarantee of quality, practicalness and the effectiveness of public investments. I think it would be a good idea to agree to the Congress resolution and improve the process.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u24	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for this discussion and the Minister for entering it. It's like they're still gonna keep beating their heads to the stone about this case. The minister is simply making false remarks. Experts have noted that this is not the best place to build a new hospital, both out of traffic, organization, and so forth. This is not now taken into account in organizational matters, for example, the growing number of tourists, automobile traffic, and all of these. And so the Minister tells us that employees agree. A study was published at a press conference, held by the Agency by a better hospital in a new location, and announced by the press, where the party introduced its policy regarding a new hospital that is to be built in another place. By the way, this group has been completely enamored in this discussion, hopefully only in order to enter the government. The picture of the press conference where the candidates sit with the representatives of a better hospital is incredibly beautiful, but there is nothing to be assigned to that category, that is clear. V.E.G. Minister. According to one study, 80% of nurses at the Land Hospital want a new hospital somewhere else, they don't want him there. And more of the doctors too, according to the survey published by this beautifully illustrated presentation of the forward - looking class at the press conference, tell them that doctors are also on the line to build the hospital in another place. V.E.G. A minister referred to a resolution in his case in 2014/2015. That synopsis had been changed, and especially taken out of it has become a new hospital on the Ring Road ◯. The conclusion was changed because there was no agreement on the matter. It's shaking at the highest. Minister of the head, I think he should observe the discussion, read the suggestion, see how it was changed, and stop messing with the speaker.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u25	Mr. President. This discussion of the location of the Hospital has become quite long and, in many respects, quite tired. This is where people start with that they now have the solution. Now we have just found a new place. They allow themselves to ignore repeatedly that in the past 20 years, four or five expert committees have reached the same conclusion. Then they allow themselves to quote the staff of the Land Hospital, that the other or this employee, or this staff, is against the location of the Ring Road. It may well be found among employees who want to reevaluate their decision on location, but when asked, they agree that the matter of building a new hospital will not be tolerated. If you are asked: Would you be willing to wait another ten years to make a decision, would you wait another ten years for us to start with this national cleaning project and a long, long time? they say no. Then they say no. Everyone working at the Land Hospital wants a new hospital built. Everyone realizes that new hospitals are being built on the Ring Road, and we owe the nation to complete that assignment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u26	Mr. President. On request of the then health minister, KPMG wrote a report on the basis and practicality of building a new hospital on Ring Road. The report was published on August 31, 2015. Not long before, Iceland's Economic Institute of High School had made an independent assessment of the project and an appreciation for it from a national point of view. KPMG's report on the benefits at the hospital's location on Ring Road and also on criticism of it is discussed. Projections, construction costs, cost of business, transportation costs, and traffic pressures are reviewed. The policy to continue building at the present site on Ring Road was developed after the health and insurance secretary's staff gave their credit in January 2002, 16 years ago, as the Supreme Court did. A health minister pointed out in his speech. And still we'll talk about the location. The committee compared three locations, Ring Road, Fos Sog and Vifils, and it proved to be an estimate of the stock costs at the lowest corner. Since then, policy development has been carried out. The project has developed very, developed through planning, and was adopted in 2013 by regional, primary, and shared organization. The structure and scope of the building were greatly altered through the planning process, but the local authorities'solidarity has been high in the location of the Ring Road. The cost of building is estimated at the lowest of the available options from Ring Road. You can make use of existing monuments and build new hospitals as an additional part of Iceland's University, as well as plan to build a health science field in the region. Almost all political groups have come to the decision to build the hospital on Ring Road. It is important that the building should rise as soon as possible, it is important for the staff, it is important for patients, and the decision has been made to evaluate matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u27	Mr. President. I appreciate this discussion. It is now hardly a building built in Iceland that we do not argue about location or appearance; churches, elementary schools, hospitals, cultural institutions, etc. This discussion is just part of our culture - sharing a house. We love to share it. Of course, it is reasonable to ask serious questions about what we are doing in the case of one of the biggest or likely the greatest health - care projects in the last few decades. However, some of the differences are rooted in past sins, the fact that we have not completed the project that we were supposed to have completed a long time ago, a decade ago or more, to build a new university hospital. Rather, we should be discussing where we are going to locate, and in what way we will build a university hospital in the 21st century during the next 10, 15, 20 years or so. On the other hand, we continue our dispute. Of course, it is much easier and easier to debate the appearance of the houses and their location than the way we are going to manage the medical system. It is a much simpler debate, and it does not require so much discussion. We avoid accepting the discussion about how we will organize our health system, how we will plan it according to the new university hospital. I fear that if people continue to talk about the location of a university hospital, and I can understand the doubts, it will take on a much more important matter that we begin to understand how we are going to build up the health system in Iceland and its organization.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u28	A respectable president. I'd like to say something a little bit. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son, we've been dragging our feet into this. This is simply the problem we face today. The telephone was sold to 2005, and this coin was to be used to build hospitals, 67 billion there. It wasn't done. We would not be in this situation arguing about whether we should be building this hospital on the Ring Road because we should have built it long ago. The problem now, however, is that once we have built where it was supposed to have been completed, it will even have become out - of - date. That's the problem. Thus, we need to consider a future facility for the hospital as soon as possible. Before the election, a meeting on the future location was held. There were some interesting factors that are critical of the decision on the situation that led to our building at the Land Hospital today. It showed that the first local analysis that had been performed would have been made: If not in Fos, they would have been told somewhere else. Then stood the choice between Ring Way, Fos Sogs, and somewhere else. If not in Fos, then somewhere else. Then it was brought up: No, we need to take a closer look, and we need to remember to draw close to downtown and close to the university. Then a new local selection was made with the terms added. I think it's a little slim, going out on that road in that way. Their doubts and criticisms were not objected, so I have to believe that they were legitimately critical of what was now being accomplished. At the present time, it seems to be a goner, we must complete what is being done now, and go to see where we can build a hospital to the future, for we cannot afford to do this for another 20 years. It just doesn't work. We call an independent local check that doesn't work out by some postmortem basis. [[The president calls.]] We have to do this professionally.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u29	A respectable president. I want to thank you for this discussion, for it is important that we discuss these matters at the Hall, especially in an effort to expand our daily discussions only because they have been under many limits, both for politicians and for the media. I think it's the best. Ministers and members of Parliament are doing quite well in this regard. I would especially like to look to the university role of the Land Hospital. It is about teaching, but it is also combined with all other activities and is the basis for the development of the work in many ways, with the Agency being called a short period of the Landspiral University Hospital. Medical research is essential for improvement and management in health care, community, and patients. Thus, the hospital's university projects are one of the key elements of local selection, and it is urgent that the hospital and the university are clear. Hv. paritaprevir Árnadóttir Kolbrún Aarnadótir, people are running between Iceland's University and the Land Hospital every day. I just want to record a few numbers on the cooperation of the University of Iceland and the 2016 National Hospital that are applied to the university Web site. The university and the Landspike are a means of education and training staff in health care. The students of health science are over 2,000 academic workers, about 300, including 100 joint employees, as well as 900 practice teachers from the Land Hospital. The slowing down of the ballway now would therefore be as shortsighted as closing down Reykjavík's airport without any other option. In 2014, the government I supported was agreed to complete the preparations for the renewal and construction of a land hospital on Ring Road, or word. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That government defended near 2 you. A million. to build up a land hospital on Ring Road.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u30	Mr. President. I'd like to begin my speech with a compliment, please. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Eagle Daughter, for filming this case. Here's a big deal going on here. The local hospital is so that decisions in public will hardly be larger than building them and choosing suitable places. I also want to thank the minister for her comments during the discussion, even though one thing or another, I have to admit, I have surprised myself in that regard, including that a minister should feel the need to state that it will cost, if I have just noticed, 10 to 15 years in case professional analysis of the best available option for local selection. The key point is that people who must be taken seriously as professionals in the planning and medical matters have been identified, including ... underthesign of a better hospital in a better place. They have called attention to the fact that very important grounds laid down in the reports of all cited cannot be met. The danger we face is that we are being brought up in a situation where national interests are at stake at the national hospital. It is claimed that the hospital is a full-of-the-art, good, but no better mistake will be made, Mr. President, that it is a treasure.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u31	President. I have to say, I don't think that any building over the head plays an important role in Icelandic society would have to endure as thoroughly as a review of its location as that of the Landsit of the Circle, the New House, has endured the past few years and decades. It may be, then, that we could agree to stand in a good place. I don't mean to criticize that others believe that the construction of the Land Hospital would have been better than the Ring Road. I simply disagree. For decades, this could be fought over for decades, and we are more than good at it, as we have so many times. The question is, When is it enough, and for whom and where are the facilities being renewed? For some 20 years, it has been reexamined. Then it is simply a matter of serious concern that the person I take note of, the director of the Land Hospital, the surgeon, and others, is most dangerously delaying this project. We look at plans and predictions that predict the carrying out of the project in this way are we considering 30 decades in terms of population growth until we have to consider a new building. As we know, we underestimated most predictions, including population estimates and tourists, so let's talk about 20 years. Is it not wise for us to work together on professional assessments and assessments of the location of the nearest hospital, perhaps trying to do some other work? In case of time left over, let's talk about policies in the Icelandic medical system. Let's get it over here. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u32	V.E.G. President. First, I want to say thank you for a very nice, up - to - date discussion. I want to thank you very much for your answers. Secretary of health. First of all, I'm just glad to hear it out. In the hall, members of the council are on trial to find a new place for the hospital. They want to make a good statistical analysis, but they want to go to it after 20 years. Maybe that's what's left of me. I will not belittle cooperation with the educational community. I think it's very important, but I'd like to point out that there are often non-several partnerships. It's very special to hear what you're saying. Councilmen here speak of the end of this matter. It was one of their campaigns, not just last year, but before that, to find a new place for the hospital. I refuse that this discussion is tired. It is true that there have been reports. One of them said that if you can't find a new hospital, it's the best place, the best place on Ring Road. Regarding the proposal presented earlier, it certainly wasn't accepted, that suggestion, which was referred to as the approved son of Davíð Gunnlaugsson. A member of the Central Party. It was changed, and it was decided that the building of the existing home would not be necessary. I just want to make this right here and thank you very much for the discussion, thank you all.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u33	A respectable president. Thank you for your time. First of all, I'd like to say, because it says here that a council proposal has been changed in 2014, that it is true. It changed to the meetings, but the conclusion was that the government was instructed to complete as soon as possible the preparations for the renewal and construction of a land hospital at the Reykjavík Circle Course and to start some implementation when funding had been ensured. Hv. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson voted for this proposal, and Sigurður Páll Jónsson too, now member of the Central Party. This is a fact. People here speak of building as something else. I'd like to see if the staff of the Land Hospital agree to that, people who are living under a completely unbearable environment on chapters, people who say that perhaps the most important thing in all is to experience that governments are united in a vision of the future development of the Land Hospital on Ring Road in order to continue developing a strong health system on a global scale in Iceland. I ask, a respectable president: Is people serious about coming here and speaking for refusing to build up on the Ringtrack this summer? Do people really mean that they should disappear from starting the treatment core in the next few months? Are people serious about this kind of language and saying that it is about making a new decision that in view of the government's Commission and the Organization will delay the construction of the nuclear house of the Icelandic Health Organization for about 10 to 15 years? Is it serious to invite the medical professions in Iceland, health science, and the sick and injured people to that extent? [[The president calls.]] I'm asking, Mr. Honorable President. I say, it's not a defense. I agree it's a dangerous idea to stop at this point, the Icelandic health system can't wait. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u34	Mr. President. It can be reasoned with some evidence that there is a miracle that exists in Iceland but that there are free media. Private skills communicate as many of them are driven by great ambition. I claim that if any company is living under a more difficult situation than the Icelandic media, it's going to have to be in an incredibly unfair, unnatural competition, and depending on the rules we've made here. The game's unbalanced. It is as uneven as any competitive business can become. We view a wrong position in the Icelandic media market, which has caused the majority of the private media to fight in banks. Unlike the government radio, independence from the media has to account for what they do. Each day, the people render judgment as readers, viewers, or listeners. If they don't like their work, they just stop reading or buying the newspaper or magazine, post the subscription to the TV station, or stop listening to the radio station. If they do not agree with the way news or news explanations are prepared, they give up visiting the media on the Web. The reduced popularity of the media will suffer from advertising. In other words, the media is a private place where the public lives. Aggressive authority, however, that does not extend to the multicentered media in the same way that it does to the special people. The people of the country have to pay a radio fee. That is what the state funds collector sees. No one has the freedom to express his dissatisfaction by giving up the subscription, breaking the business relationship. I have held it both in speech and in writing that it is one of the roles of the statesman, the Lawgiver, to plow the ground for more variety of media. There is no better way to ensure the diversity of the media than to reveal the facts and to be heard from different viewpoints. Of the importance of independence, there is no need for powerful media. Free media are one of the most important cornerstones of democracy, the free community. The person being present has not been a great spokesman for making specific rules about an enterprise or for specific employment practices where there are special rules, e.g. ... accordingto taxrealsurrections. I'd like to keep the rules clear and simple, to be just, and to ensure an equality. However, the situation in the Icelandic media market calls for a slight deportation. I've suggested that we cancel a merit tax from the media subscriptions. I believe it is necessary for us to examine how we collect insurance when it comes to the private media. And I've thought that it would be necessary for the state radio to be drawn out by a commercial market. Except for the incontrovertible competition of the Icelandic private media with the State Radio, they are also fighting in the banks for competition with big corporations abroad, Google, Facebook, etc. ... tocutandnowcutoffthemarketofthe Advertising. So, in view of all of this, I want to ask the highest. Secretary of Education and Culture: Is it appropriate to consider that the taxable environment in Iceland's media will eliminate a value tax on subscriptions? Do other tax measures make sense, e.g. down insurance? It's the highest. Ministers agree to take the State Radio off a commercial market and so settle the game? [[The president calls.]] It's the highest. A minister of any other possibility to match the local media status to foreign corporations that are now entering the advertising market?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u35	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason for bringing up a discussion on the state of Special Media, and I want to thank the Committee for improving the environment of the environment in particular the media very much for their work. It is time and time for the General to discuss the media, with an important issue involving our culture and democracy. It is also in harmony with what we have seen in all other parts of the world that governments are becoming much more interested in and that they are much more closely observing the fast trend that has taken place in recent years in the media. There, the social media, Google, and topic groups such as Netflix and Spotify have changed the media's environment. Perhaps the biggest change is that users of the media are gradually becoming their own programme managers, and media media media media media media media media media media media media media communication is going to be through computers, phones, and other smart devices. The media is one of the most important instruments of democratic society, and changing the environment can have a direct bearing on how we manage to maintain the democratic system we choose. The efforts of governments around the world have largely been aimed at ensuring that people have access to the diverse media, which communicates social, news, and so forth, enabling them to become active participants in the democracies community. In addition, the desire or requirement for the media to contribute to the maintenance and promotion of culture and language, each one in his own area. Private media have experienced such rapid changes and are struggling to adapt their business to them. This adjustment takes place everywhere, but in different ways, there are different media, media, and expectations. It is, therefore, a real pleasure to discuss a recent report on the environment of the environment, along with proposals and reports. The report contains information on the state of the media, both in the country and abroad, as well as suggestions on how to improve the situation of the media. They even turn. to the state of the State Radio on Advertising, tax environment, texting and speaking, and reimbursed production costs on specific materials. It can be said that the report marks a turning point in the topic discussion of environmental issues and will be used as a practical tool to improve their environment. I feel that it is important to continue working with the suggestions presented in the report and to assess their influence, in order to raise costs that would fall on the state funds, the benefits of the media themselves, the effects on the language, and more. The report rhymes with the Treaty of the current government, but the government is going to improve the media environment. by improving the changes in their tax environment. I've been talking about getting close to work with a growing career environment of music, literature and the media, including the rest of the day. by placing Icelandic in the first place. We have a lack of a complete policy on the media. The report presented today is the first step in that work. Our policy must take place by means of a wide variety of stakeholders, political parties, and the common people, for we must try to find a way to negotiate the media and possible government support to their democratic and cultural roles. There are many ways to support the media. For that support, there may be good reasons. Therefore, I believe that we should begin by molding our policies on the media and taking their stand both to the points mentioned in the report and to others that may be on the table. Their goal is to improve the media environment. I think it's very wise to start with the merit tax and have started work in this regard. Another factor related to the points contained in this report needs to be considered further. They need to be assessed and assessed for the effects they have on the environment of the media. Finally, I'd like to say that it's been more than 30 years since the media became free in Iceland, but the biggest changes in their environment and conditions have occurred in a few years. We can't see their end. We must be alert and ready to take action to make sure that the people of the country have access to good and quality media, which is one of the reasons that this is an active democracy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u36	A respectable president. I thank the advocate of this need for discussion. In many areas and in a free population, we need to make sure that the public discussion and cultural setting is powerful and diverse. We want to express ourselves and see in the media that have the same language that we speak and cultural background as we do. We talk a lot about the need to expand our infrastructure at this time, and we must not forget that the same is true of our cultural infrastructure. There, the Kingdom Radio is important, the state radio, which is in no uncertain terms. a advocate of independence, a powerful media but also, so I add, independent of the power of wealth and influence. The state radio is also important in the production of game material that hopefully will someday reach us with great fables, I'm always waiting for the Great Valley Life by Guðrún frá Lundur, and in exchange for the material that exists within the walls. The way that has taken place here, unlike the countries around us, to have the Kingdom News financed much of its activity by advertising, has led to many negative consequences for both itself and the personal enterprise. However, there is no market for the State Radio without any secure income contrary to it. We do not need to strengthen our personal media by weakening the Kingdom Radio. The media today face many threats, as we have seen here. I'd like to finally mention two things: Researchers face the constant threat of subjugation here. And the other thing I'd like to mention is the operating conditions of my network, which play a very important role. In that case, I specifically mention the N4 station in Akureyri, which does not have public financial support and does not have a distribution system but has proved its value.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u37	A respectable president. Thank you for bringing up this important subject and also the highest. A minister for participating in the discussion on the same day as the Commission on a better business environment for the Nautilus media gave her her report. I'd like to begin by saying that the Icelandic media is being thrown out with great ambition. That's right. But free media are essential to democracy. They provide support with professional and informative coverage and news transfers. Therefore, it is important for governments to defend independence and evangelical freedom from the media and to exercise financial ability to act as democracies. It is desirable that the public will support their activities without allowing their independence to be restricted by financial restrictions, threats, or other forms of force. I'm here to welcome them with the Minister's plans to change the local tax environment. I think it's a step in the right direction, but that operation can improve their management candidates without direct access to the state. It is also important to give special support to research journalism, for it is essential that journalists have time and space to care for their important democratic and community roles. That's why I'm pointing to the highest. The Minister of Education and Culture to consider the possibility of a special fund for research journalism that could be run in a similar way to the artist's payroll.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u38	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, for starting this press case, and for those who have been conducting here. Then comes to mind, as many people have come on, State Radio. The state of the media is that I don't know very well in this country, mainly in view of the fact that their competitive attitude toward the State Radio is crooked, simply because RUS is in a commercial market and that undeniably competitiveness with the private media. Also difficult is the tax environment of the individual media. The payoffs of The Kingdom Radio went up to the last budget. When asked why, of course, the answer is: It takes to run a radio. It is also considered necessary that the nation has a multifocal national security device and that other security purposes are subject to sending national messages in case of trouble and that all the people of the country need a message of it at once. But now it's a fact that the broadcasts of RUSB are not being caught all over the country. That's when we talk about safety devices. Today, technology has become a different way, but the good old State Radio is just as good if not better when messages to the country need to be received. I've always been a member of State Radio. Its history is the interwoven of the national soul, both as cultural media in the deep sense of that word and as a security instrument. But times have changed, so we must act.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u39	A respectable president. The media's environment has changed very much over the years, especially in recent years. Around the world, the media are moving forward with a new business model because of the Internet. Yet, there is a real need because traditional models have stopped working. There is much complaint that people have simply stopped paying for news. They expect the news to be free. It's going to happen here, too. It takes something new, except the old model when you sold individual copies. It is the same scarf as in many other industry. The problem of Iceland and Iceland in participating in this trend is the small market of the Icelandic language. This presents a foolish challenge for us to take part in this trend, but we really need to create material in a language that is understood by more than the people of Iceland, such as English or some similar language spoken by numerous people. But I suppose we want an Icelandic tongue to survive. I'll bet you are. I certainly do think so myself. But if the Icelandic language is to survive the 21st century and the development it brings, we must strengthen the Icelandic language with the power of the state, with the money of the state, by means of taxation. There is no other way around me knowing. I would be opposed to such a approach if we lived in a tens of millions of human society. But we don't. With regard to the suggestions given in a recent report, I may not have time to review all of them here, but I will join them in the second round. But in terms of at least Proposition A, on reimbursement of the part of the cost of production of the news and news-related material, I think it is important, as I was saying earlier. We must support this media if we are going to keep in the English language. To me, that in itself is the main point of this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u40	Madam President. Thank you. I find every reason to be cautious when the government of the left green, independent party and forwarding group reviews the tax environmental environment of the media and other activities of the competitive environment. I'm gonna wind up asking the highest. Secretary of the media: Will the government of the left green, independent, and forwarding party ensure that our fine state medium's status at a commercial market will not choke others, especially the smaller media? Will the independent party government, forwards, and left greens ensure that they do not proclaim tax changes primarily concern the media, even those who are on the subscription market, the media with money-rich owners who may have grown tired of a penchantless loss despite unambiguous benefits for personal gain? Will the government prevent individual media from becoming involved in competitive business for years without paying taxes and fees, and then there can be a secret influence in these media through overtakes across the debt's objectives? Very much. Will the government make its way with the intention of securing it? Is the real aim of change being used to care for the interests of everyone in the media market, thus trying to ensure essential diversity and public interest? The destination will be followed very closely. We'll do it, including. we will face restoration, with all efforts, and ensure that these changes and roads will be taken into account in terms of public interest.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u41	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u42	A respectable president. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason for bringing up this important matter. Of course, all that was right in his case is true. Between the media, the game is inconsistencies, that is an understatement, in fact, against all competitive principles, and is really completely intolerable. It's certainly time to bring this up. I'd like to thank you, too, the highest. Minister for her contribution to the discussion. We have today an important report that I expect to be discussed at the General Assembly and that will provide the basis for more detailed policy development, and I will allow myself to agree with a minister, that there will be a media conference, and I thank her for that. It's not just that this issue is about the competitiveness of the media business. It's about the nation's high-value democratic interests under, the nation's highly important cultural interests. Here, too, is under the protection and access of the Icelandic language. It is as big as it really can be. I have the hope and wish that at the Council, there will be a mutual understanding of a wide range of policies on these issues that can bring us forward in all the areas involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u43	A respectable president. It can be strongly reasoned that all Icelandic media, i.e. Our main media, would be worse off now than when they were best off in financial matters. Then, too, we can conclude that all of them are a little worse than when they were the best. Because there is a boring correlation between financial strength and editorialism or planned power in this subject. This is especially true of the private media, since we have recently seen that they have begun to lose their numbers. One has entered another, the two largest lights have come from telecommunications companies, and it has become an extension of telephone companies, with the consequences of what it has in its editorial position. It has happened only in the last two to four years that the relative strength of the Kingdom News market has increased dramatically. It's been pretty good, and it's been pretty good now, for example. Regarding their subscription income with double bail. They are insured, followed by an increase in the number of revenues per year. The Icelandic commercial market contains some 9.5 billion dollars. The share of The Kingdom Radio is 25% of the total, almost half the ads in the V.G. market. It is inevitable to take that position now, since in the West no one is identified as the relative strength of the State in the media market anywhere near what he is in Iceland. The difference is growing; the private media is getting weaker, and the state is getting stronger. We must consider now, especially on the basis of the report being published today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u44	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason's discussion. It is truly needed. An apocalyptic comes into play on important issues. The media's cultural and democratic role is undisputed, whether it's a special or a diplomacy. Hv. A senator considers it a miracle to think that personal media work under the present competitive conditions. I'm going to refer to an article published on the Habitat site that supports the developments that have taken place, if we look at the competitive environment, which has certainly become more complex with rapid technological development, as we have seen in the discussion. The article shows, though, that we stand out as different from those in the North and West. Here's a lower amount of money to buy on advertising than in the North countries, whether in the population or as a proportion of GDP. It tells itself that the media do rely on these incomes. In this complex environment, there is an amassing. However, the development of advertising revenues is consistent with the development of elsewhere where income has also been added, i.e. correspondent in the North. Then, an object has spread to more people by means of the development and expansion of web sites. When we do not have a perfect competitive environment, and our cultural and democratic role is undisputed, we should consider it. I'm celebrating the declaration. Minister, including. Based on a report published this morning, on action and shape policies in this field. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u45	Madam President. When I prepared a discussion about this morning's unique media situation, I was so blue-eyed that I thought I was really going to discuss the idea of a verbal venerator, huh? A member of the Independence Party, Óli Kárason Káláksson, regarding the situation of the unique media and their mismanagement. So I had carefully examined those who came out this morning and considered the suggestions received and wondered about them and sought further information, despite the shortness of time. But as soon as the talk begins. The senator was quite aware that his purpose in this discussion was to cycle our public radio, the State Radio. He thus spoke of this cultural institution, our common cultural institution, this old institution, which has a unique place in the production of information and culture in this country, that you just gaped. I found it quite tragic, I must say, to listen to the senator's language, who obviously respects nothing of the enormous cultural work that the staff of the three stations run at the State Radio, VOLV TV, Channel 1 and Channel 2 are doing every day around the world. There is no multicenter pair with the three media when it comes to information and culture. I don't quite understand why we can't just build up the position of the individual media without having to weigh so much that our organization, this common property. I can't quite figure it out. There are many practical suggestions in this morning's report. I'd like to encourage the Minister of Education to go to the office where we're being set up quickly, but at the same time, I would like people to look out for some moderation in their words when it comes to the State Radio and the staff that work there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u46	A respectable president. I agree with the warm words of the last speaker to the State Radio, both at the same time in the cultural mountain and in the country's press report. The idea of reducing income is to be reduced by laying off a radio fee, or whatever it is mentioned, but it must be met with a loss of income. As the report shows, this is not always done. You need to be very alert that you do not become ill by changing the environment. As for the ideas of the reduction of cost taxes, I agree in a media report that the proposals are mainly to two things; on the one hand, the VOD-owned communications organisations; and on the other, for the subscribers, which are not particularly many here. I might get to hear what I'm talking about. The speaker to see if this is the specific method for reaching the video store and the other on the other hand to the morning paper. This has been a discussion of the media's environment. But there are more than financial concerns that make life on the media in this country, especially at the present time. In this regard, the public can look at themselves in a particular way when it comes to answering information requests. Then I'm not only talking about the Ministry that often draws my feet out of proportion with the subject of simple, simple media requests but also about us at the Council, who seems to have a very difficult time giving clear answers to the inquiries that we are directed on the operation of the council. Then I have to name what no one has mentioned, and it is a surprise, which is the law of the law in the hour. We are in the position of the representative of the European Commission for 100 days of a ban on the interests of the Supreme Ruler. [[The president calls.]] Madam President. I'm more concerned about 100 days of freedom of expression than I am about some valuable tax payoff.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u47	The president asks why. Councilmen showing respect for the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u48	Madam President. I often wondered what the Kingdom will do in this business, the media business, and I always come to that conclusion, as most others have. Councilmen have noted that it is the cultural gate. We are a very small society, and there will never be a market for all the small groups and interested groups in all the subjects we will have to deal with if we are to maintain a cultural society. That's why I think that RUS has continued a definite role, and there's no question about it. I'm sure this role will cost money, no matter how far he's got it, and I can give it up, like many more, that RUV is getting out of the market and it's more on the state side of the world. I think a reexamination of the view of VR or state radio and TV needs to be made. Today, the nation's high value in culture has become an organization. This should, in fact, make much more accessible. We have the net, and people are, as we've seen before. Councilmen, start choosing what they want. We all know young people today, who literally never open up for a predetermined program. This is just happening, so RUS should be the culture of the nation. Also, cultural products should continue to be developed and expressed, either by business or by shopping in other places. You also have to consider a democratic discussion, that's an assessment point. To say this, I think it's a big deal to make sure that all the people of the country have access to telecommunications, Internets, and so on. [[The president calls.]] That way we can guarantee it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u49	A respectable president. A two - minute talk can be said for one thing. I'm going to try to say six, but I'm not going to do it in a much linear order according to the suggestions in the report. I'm going to begin by saying about d's proposal that alcohol and tobacco ads will be allowed, that I don't trust myself to discuss it at this brief time, but I hope we can discuss it more later. As for the motion g, about the sale of the official ads, I would like to take out the words on advertisements and say only a zest of the government's purchases, and so finish the sentence. As for the proposal B, the state radio goes off the advertising market, I'm more and more in favor. Of course, I'm just as concerned as anyone, that it weakens the State Radio. I don't want that to happen, but we also have to keep in mind that the income that the Kingdom News magazine has of the advertising that the TV would no longer have made would be other income, so that it would not be cut off in the media in its whole, or in the news, but it would be a direct capital of another way. I reiterate that I would like to do it somehow so that it would not harm the management of Our Kingdom News and that it is totally open to the discussion of reevaluating the role of the Kingdom News in the light of new times and technological development. As for the proposal e, reimbursement of the part of the cost of texting and speech, I'm sure it is. I hope technology reduces the cost to little or nothing over time. But until then, it is absolutely necessary that we directly finance this from the state funds in some way, such as by reimbursement. As for the proposal of a f, access permissions from texting and speaking, I think it's likely, and I'm surprised that I'm not already there, if I'm to say it at the present time. It can be especially important for young people who have specialized materials, such as the Omega TV station, who may not be in fashion for all. But that is the main point, small institutions cannot translate all the material they want to produce. It is very important that they have some means of doing so. In fact, that facility can be trusted to do its utmost to get as much information as possible in English. Suggested c, that the cost of a subscription will be 11% - I'm simply in favor of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u50	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason for bringing up this important matter. Of course, free, independent, and powerful media are the basis for a democratic community, so it is of enormous importance that we do well to deal with the environment that has been prepared for them. But I worry about Katrín. Friðriksson In Hanna of the will of the groups that the present government is in order to promote a truly free competitive environment, on the other hand, their ability to build various competitive barriers over the years has been amazing. But perhaps we should look at a key point. The reason for an intense competition in the Icelandic media market is the intervention of the State of this market, the tremendous support to one particular media, the State Radio. Now, I'm not going to minimize the quality of what is produced or its importance in any context, I'm going to agree with what has been said about the quality of it. However, I wondered, " Is the arrival of the State in providing an Icelandic high - quality program that can be more a matter of competition than of running a media medium? ' It is much more healthy to support all the media in the country to produce Icelandic material, since we both want to secure Icelandic materials and protect our tongue, but then all the media should sit at the same level on the basis of access to funding for production of such materials, not just one in the power of government support. However, you can find some interesting suggestions in the media committees, e.g. to take away a commercial market if the current arrangement I support should be continued. It is of utmost importance that this is a healthy, generally competitive environment where everyone is sitting at the same table. The problem is not that there is a demand for the subject, the problem is that the State loses its competitiveness on this market, and this explains the problem of free media.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u51	Madam President. Thank you so much for the discussion. How happy I was to hear a talk from you! paritaprevir Þorsteinn, son of Víglundsson. He'll find out exactly what's going on. That's what this is about. The speech was another matter. Vala Helga Helgadóttir, which I understood neither up nor down into, either she didn't listen to what I was trying to say or then I've talked so that she didn't understand what I was trying to say, but it's very simple. We are to create an environment where free media, independent media, flourish, take root in order to fulfill their role. It is a fact that, in view of the arrangement we have had, the situation has been swindled in a way that does not result in pleasure. The room's called The State Radio. Of course, I have certain opinions about whether the State has the authority to run the media or not, but that is a completely different matter. That's not what I'm talking about. I'm talking about now that we've decided to run a Kingdom Hall, let's at least. Try to balance the situation in some way. I've come up with some ideas, and I'm sure there are other ideas. A competition fund gives me great comfort because it's been years since I suggested it. But I hope that a drop can put the stone in that subject. Thank you very much. Well, Minister of Education and Culture for taking part in the discussion. I think that motive is for us to re-enact when all of us are able to study the highest report. The minister was handed over this morning and there will be no special discussion for half an hour. [[The president calls.]] I think we're supposed to do a very long, detailed discussion in this hall on the role of the Kingdom Hall, on how we can improve the status of the individual media, and how we can strengthen democracy and freedom, open up a discussion in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u52	A respectable president. I thank the senators very much for a very helpful discussion that I think shows exactly how we all understand the importance of free and powerful media and the role they play in a democracies community. I must tell you in my own small way that now I want to begin the media policies and take the steps that we can take because many of the individual media have a very poor situation. First, I'd like to implement a proposal that is about to lower the value tax and that we already want to see what the cost is, etc. I'd like to state, because it's been observed by some members of the council, of course, there's going to be equal communication among the media in the country when we're going into these policies. Everything else is impossible, and I call for a very good team cooperation, that we're not putting things out so they're ready to create suspicion. All the work we will do will be made open and transparent. Clearly, for this to be settled, the guidelines need to be clear and general and equal to the approach of these media. With regard to RUSH status, it's clear that it's unique. Nowhere else, a government medium has such a strong position in an advertising market. But if a person is going to take the Kingdom News out of a commercial market, he needs to consider counter measures. Of course, we want to hold on to a very powerful government radio. Finally, I agree with the proposal that was made by the Aesthetist, who mentioned that we should have a special discussion on the report of the committee's status on the media, and I welcome it. I think it should be a long, extensive discussion, and I think we should have it as soon as possible. I'd like to state that this morning's report, and I wish you'd had more time to study it, but I thought it was very important to publish it immediately and give the members of the council a chance to study it shortly before the discussion, but I would present a second discussion in this regard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u53	A respectable president. I am now reporting a report by the National Council on Norwegian cooperation in 2017. The report is now available on the Generals web. The meetings and key projects and discussions that were in the past year are very detailed so that interested ones can find more information there. I would like to briefly review key projects and discussions within the Northern Council in 2017. It would be best to propose that Find and Iceland's proposal to turn Finnish and Icelandic into work languages in the Northern Community Council and that the application of movers to full involvement in the Council included those at the top of the Council of Northern America in 2017. Finnar took the lead in the council, and Senator Britt Lundberg, a member of the Central Class of the Isles (Aländsk Center), served the office of the president. During the spring council meeting in Stockholm, the Council of Northern Ireland After Donald Trump adopted the presidency, we discussed changes in the cooperation between the states of the north and the United States. Was there, including Discussing that it is even more important that the North countries focus on their common values in their dealings with the United States. At the Northern Parliament, held in Helsinki at the end of October and November, there was a discussion of international reconciliation. There, Martti Ahtisaari, former president of Finland, and director of the Nobel Peace Nóbel, gave a address. He even said. that when international conflicts arose, they could almost always be rooted in the fact that some groups experienced inequities. At the same time, Ahtisaari said that the African community based on justice and equality was the best available and could be a model to other nations. A joint proposal by the Icelanders and a finding out how to turn Finnish and Icelandic to the Council of Northernity as much as the Scandinavian language was repeated at the National Council, which was originally put forward in 2016. The Finnish and Icelandic council members said it was fair to equal the status of the languages, while the Scandinavian Parliaments were concerned about an increase in the costs of interpretation and translation and that there might be an increased demand for the language skills of the Council of Human Rights, which would make it more difficult to find qualified employees. They also expressed concern about the value of the change and the subsequent expectation, for example. Same standards are set by Sam and Greenlanders. The matter did not end during the year. It was decided to review more closely how the change would affect the work of the Council of Northern Nations and take it back into Council of 2018. On this occasion, I'd like to inform the Senate that last night the Council of Iceland was late for a meeting held in Stockholm. This issue was addressed in the Council of Northern America. After that discussion, it was decided to initiate a team of workers who would consider this matter further, i.e. setting up costs and other means of improving service to Iceland and finding, but doing so as effectively as possible. Among other things, there were ideas such as whether telepathy could be used. In this regard, too, a change in the organization of meetings was called for a more meaningful interpretation. So there is a question. Of course, at the National Council of England, we follow through and cooperate with Find. Another case that has been discussed since 2016 is the Accession Program on a full involvement in the Northern Council. At the spring convention of 2017, a memo discussed that the Danish Parliament had agreed on legal matters related to this matter. It identified a number of problems associated with regulations in the Denmark Constitution and particularly in the Helsinki Convention, which is a fundamental agreement for the Norwegian partnership. It has been noted that the Northern Ministers are not ready to change the covenant. In the spring and later, several Icelandic senators expressed support for the wishes of the Faeroes. For a while, it appeared that the application of the Offense would be dropped, but so on the emotional scale of the Northern Council, I allow myself to say, in Helsinki last fall, that it was agreed to postpone the case in order to allow the competent authorities to examine and give their opinion on state rights, national rights and political matters. It is fun to relate that at the same assembly in Helsinki Martti Ahtisaari was a special guest and had discussed the reconciliation and role of the Norwegian states. Later at that same day, the debate about the Faeroe Islands arose, and a certain group of members of the council did not intend to allow them to enjoy the doubt. However, in view of the fact that much of the day's reconciliation had been under discussion, it would have been hypocritical not to accept the Prefect's reasonable requirements to look into the matter further and allow them to provide further information to make that decision later in 2018. That's the situation. This is a comprehensive and excellent report. This is a detailed review of the main topics. This article discusses the academic salary of the Northern Council, the work on committees, what the committees have been doing, who are now serving in the Iceland Department and during the past year. Interested ones can study this fine report. Thank you for a good sound.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u54	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator on the tour. I have to admit that I haven't read the whole report, but I've looked into it for a bit. What I'm thinking about these days, as many others are the Presidentship of Donald Trumps, U.S.A., who, of course, makes a lot of problems in virtually every aspect of his domain, though many of them were sought. One thing we have learned in recent years is that the secret services of various countries, especially the United States, have the abilities and abilities and wills to use their methods against hostile countries, such as Germany. There's no reason to believe that Iceland is an exception. In fact, I have recently seen that there is a lack of involvement in information security and security in the North, not just because Donald Trump is president of the United States, but because the situation was already bad enough. Then I feel that we need to focus on our safety interests, especially our information security and internal security, just beyond that of NATO. Of course, the countries with which we have an unequivocal security share in the long term are the North countries. That's why I've believed that we should specifically increase our relationship to defense, information security work, to the North countries. We come to share information security interests with them for an extended period of time that we do not necessarily have with the United States, though they are our most important ally. I see a brief search in the report that it has been discussed how to deal with Donald Trumps's presidency, no matter how short it will hopefully be, and on the other hand, the matter of security will be expanded with the Committee. I'd like to have a reaction. While I know that there may be no clear answer to such questions, the senator may not be available right now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u55	A respectable president. Thank you. Senator Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for a very interesting and good answer. First, I'd like to say that in the government contract, the main focus is to promote oriento cooperation, that's the first sentence on foreign affairs, so the government stands there together. This information security project, I agree with the senator, is a very important matter. I see here in the gym are some representatives from the Northern Council of Iceland. We are very open to accept ideas that we can include in our names in the Northern Council. National Council actually works, and like the Generals. We have groups, we have names. With Icelanders, you can ask questions like this. We can contribute to Congress, and we can make great use of this Norwegian field. There may not be many people who realize how strong the territory of Northern Legislature is for us. The entire North countries place a great deal of emphasis on Norwegian cooperation and feel that it is important not only to continue but to be strong. It's a very interesting case, if you don't mind me puking, the highest. President, information security, and the emphasis on it will increase for the next few years in foreign fields. I agree with that. A senator says that this is something we need to consider. I don't know exactly how far this discussion has taken place in the Northern Council, but we senators can see if it has been taken and if there are any processes or projects in the Northern Council. Thank you. A senator very much for a good point.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u56	A respectable president. Thank you for your positive reaction to my inquiry. I'm not surprised if the discussion has gone a little further on that level, as it was in most parts of the world. It is simple: Technology is developing much, much faster than politics in general, let alone the individual committees, be sure to respond to something new. The new thing that has come up and come up over and over is how unorthodox information has become in the world today. As I recently studied in a talk, at the beginning of the year, it was becoming clear that there are penalties that are in more or less all computers in the world. That means we'll have more pressure. There are now more secret services that have better and greater weapons. There are other crime organizations that have more and better weapons. There are other people in town who enjoy doing things that have more and more weapons. There is no evidence that this will improve in the near future, on the contrary, this will result in worsening. That is why it is so important that we reexamine our information security issues based on our own interests. They are not necessarily in harmony with our primary interests or our defense interests, which we certainly have in principle with the United States. In this regard, we are not in the same boat when it comes to this. We don't have the birth, Iceland, to protect ourselves from information security, anywhere near it, and we're not going to get that chance unless we have the same security information that we have, of course, the North countries. Thank you. A senator for pointing at these devices as a dog. A senator went over and offers assistance to me or to other members of Porta's council to use them to promote this matter within the committee's domain.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u57	V.E.G. President. That's right, the Norse Cooperation Zone is very important. We've got a common interest here, and that's where we've got power. We're always stronger together. It is true that Iceland is extremely small in the big context, so this is something we really need to look to and make the most of it, i.e. No. No. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I'd like to inform the House of Congress and the senator that last morning a seminar was held in Stockholm on the part of the Northern Council on Technology. There were many of them, both opportunities and threats, and how we can use evolution and at the same time use it as a driving force. One senator said that technology is extremely fast. Politicians are natural people from all walks of life, without science. As a result, it is very important that we politicians have at least Therefore, they know how to get help from those who have the best knowledge at any given time and the ability to inform us and lead important tasks. Improved information safety is clearly one of them. I thank the senator again for a very good tip. We in Iceland will take her up on it and find out how we can use it for some kind of project, get it into a course, and take a closer look. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u58	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the President and what. paritaprevir The Northwestern Guðjón, Brjánsson, for helping with the program. The ASE Parliament's report for 2017 is quite detailed. I would like to encourage the senators to go through it. I'm going to go for a big one in this report. Don't go over it for a word. At the scene of the European Parliament of Security and Cooperation, the ASE Parliament, the world's highest cause for refugees, terrorism, and conflicts in Ukraine was held in 2017. Network security, human rights, and the conflict in Nagorno-Karabakh were also discussed. The matter of refugees was at the top, as I said before, and for good reason, since most nations who attend this assembly have one or another experience in the great conflict and war at the Mediterranean, especially in Syria. The terrorist threat was also much discussed, since several large states in the SE work have been beaten, if that is how it can be said, on terrorism and have stressed that this is discussed and tried to prevent further stress or development in that direction. In an additional line on increasing the role of ÖSE in fighting terrorism, Member States of the United States were also encouraged to block the movement of suspected terrorists between countries and to limit the flow of arms and funds across borders. It is very important for us Icelanders to look to it and learn from the best way to prevent money laundering and the like, i.e. Icelandic financial systems are used to transport money that comes from criminals or terrorist groups, etc. At the annual meeting, the SE Council urged that military action in Ukraine be stopped and the Russian government reassigned the development of the Monsters. At that time, there was much discussion about the affairs of Ukraine and Russia, and it was also concluded about the freedom of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of ASE. Similarly, the battle in Nagorno-Krabakah was prominent in general discussions, and at the conclusion of a annual meeting, the members of the council are encouraged to initiate peace talks without delay. A big deal was about Internet security and, of course, how Internet services are used to spread unhindered or false news or what we call it. The last annual meeting was held in Minsk, Belarus, France, in 2017, and the location of the meeting was catalysed to increase the discussion of human rights matters in the United States where capital punishment is still legal. The president of the country, Lukashenko, has been called up the only dictator in Europe of Western media. It was quite clear that although Whiteus were very hospitable and all worked very well, she had a considerable impact on the discussion that there was, of course, of the good. Other teams of this report are generally discussed with the SE Council. This is the European Security and Cooperation Agency, which operates on the basis of the Helsinki Convention, beginning in 1975. The Helsinki Treaty committed Member States to improve cooperation, respect national boundaries, and ensure human rights of their citizens. Legally speaking, however, the Helsinki Convention is not a standard covenant, since it is not established by the legislatures in the lands of the heads of state who sign it. The role of the SE is then reviewed, which is also the case. impacting policy and focus on the work of SE. There are several topic committees at the scene of the ESE Parliament. The topic committees are referred to as terms of politics and security, terms on the economic, scientific, technology, and environment and on the terms of a democratic and human rights case called the 3rd Committee. Chapter 4 of this report reviews meetings with the SE Council. The Senate gathers for regular meetings three times a year. Usually, a summer meeting is held in February, a summer meeting, but this meeting was not held in the Iceland Department for elections that were imminent, as it is well known. These meetings are so damp. It discusses the meeting in Vienna, 23,◯24. February 2017. It was still talking about the fight against terrorism, human rights. There we also discussed climate change, how to cope with them and refugees, of course. There was a special discussion about protecting human rights in times of stress, as it was said. On page 18. 5 is then discussed more about the annual meeting in Minsk and through the discussion there. At that meeting, even Pawel Bartoszek, then a member of the council, to speak up, as well. paritaprevir Mogensen Morensen. On page 18. 7 I would like to draw attention to conclusions about the greater role of ÖSE in the fight against terrorism, where Member States were encouraged to sue those involved in financing, preparation, and terrorist attacks. The importance of terrorism was emphasized by hindering the movement of suspected national suspects as well as the transport of arms and funds. In general regarding these meetings and the SE council, the discussion will be highlighted and all the work is considerable by conflict or by conflict, including the rest of the countries. A conflict between countries within the SE. Thus, the discussion is often somewhat local or small groups within the council, yet there is good debate. In the day, there are many opinions on these matters. Although, if we take random examples, Russians, and Ukraine deal with one another in these meetings, others will get involved in the discussion, for of course they want to try to solve these problems. A respectable president. I'm not going to do this any further on this fine report, but I'm going to encourage members of the council to study it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u59	Madam President. Thank you for your fine passage. A senator of this fine report. The report discusses the management of Danish centres on the Internet security, and advice from the same network security advisors, on a network security scale. Danes set a four-point score based on the risk assessment of the effects of an Internet attack. And then you said why. A senator of so - called false stories and reactions to them, especially in the light of false news and propaganda of various kinds has been exposed to information warfare, especially in Ukraine and Russia's disputes recently. I wanted to ask you what. A senator could tell us more accurately what these four points are. Watch your step. A senator considered what was discussed at the meeting? I think it matters a lot - and more and more - for what's going on. I have a different request, but I'm gonna let her wait a better time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u60	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I think it's clear to me. A senator knows a lot more about the role than I'll ever know. I'm sorry, but I can't answer that much better, for the meeting where this case was discussed attended at that time. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek, but not the one here. I simply couldn't get to the meeting, so Pawel went to him for me. But in general there has been an Internet security debate on the way Danir has spoken about, i.e. With regard to scales, which I can't regret to explain further because I wasn't at the meeting. It was considered that people would need to establish a standard set of standards, or complaint, that they would consider and respond. Icelanders are not to be divorced there, I say, because we are as vulnerable to these attacks as others.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u61	Madam President. I appreciate that. True, something could have been said about the false news, which is always interesting to discuss. But all right, I get it. I hate to follow a meeting that you weren't at. One thing I missed in this report is very limited about the dispute in Ukraine. I've only studied the activities of SM, which is a special procedure to monitor warfare in the controversial areas of the East Ukraine. I'd like to know if anything had happened in the SE Conference on the COPE project, how well it works. I know that the number of bullet attacks and explosions in the area, especially in November and December of last year, has increased considerably, considering what it was like earlier this year. That's one of the big cases that SE is facing right now. In that light, the review of this subject and the Ukraine conflict are few in the report, and it may in fact be much more discussed there. It would be good to hear something about them, and especially about whether the committee was discussed why no one from Iceland is participating in this project, SM. There are now all other OSE countries, except Iceland with some agent or some other agent in the Ukraine project. That's embarrassing for us.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u62	A respectable president. It is difficult to answer the question, Why are Icelanders not there now? I think it was 2013 rather than 2014 that an Icelander named Stefán Haukur Jóhannesson, now an ambassador in London, served in Ukraine. He was located in Kiev, where an officer in charge linked this assignment. However, the debate at the council was more important about the safety of these members, how to ensure their safety. There's nothing so long since a patrolman was killed in these parts. The discussion was very focused on this. There are no solutions in itself to the best way to ensure safety of the Rapporteur. Of course, people take up discussions with both parties and request that the safety of these parties be ensured by escort forces and such. But the discussion was more and more on these lines, so if you don't mind me taking care of it in that way. But you're right next to what you're talking about. A senator said that he could better understand the report. The situation in Ukraine, the conflict between them, is large in the discussion, but it is not necessarily that everyone is involved in the discussion. There are certain groups to discuss this, but I think if we could be reasonable, that would be the main thing in this case. But I'm sure it'll always be better.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u63	President. I want to thank you. A senator for history. It just so happens that we were out together in the United States last summer at SE meetings. It was new to me, new experience for me to go to a meeting like this. I noticed pretty soon, when I started asking our colleagues out there from other northern countries, from our neighboring countries, how they kept their security up there that things were different from ours. I had thought about it before I left to see if it would be safe to use computers and telephones, the safety of e - mail communications, and other media. There was very little knowledge here at the council in this regard and little about answers. When I spoke to our colleagues from Denmark, Norway, and Sweden, it was found that there are very strict safety rules there. Senators have a so-called ◯burner-phone, a phone they get and throw away when they come back to their homes, and they have computers that are ironed when they come back home. They are told that in these and these phones and computers they must not enter their e - mails, or our Danish colleagues were forbidden to use their e - mail or online Facebook or other media only to use the phone for their smogs and phone calls. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, who served as a minister of foreign affairs several years ago, whether this is a case that has been in the past discussion here at the council, i.e. Regarding the meeting that the Icelandic Parliament attends abroad?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u64	A respectable president. I'll agree with that. Senator, this security issue is a concern. Now I'm going to let myself say that Iceland and I are a bit careless when it comes to these matters. I know those examples as well as I do. A senator mentioned, e.g. About Dana, how they do things their way. Now I've been on the other side of the table, too, with the executive, being a minister in various places, and I'd say that our extramaritals are rather careless. Of course, we try to be careful, men looking out as far as it goes. There are, however, differences in the state of the situation. When you're in a meeting with NATO, in that area, inside the NATO building, you're pretty safe with phones and computers, but you can't use them everywhere, there's rules about that. But in meetings like the people we were in White Russia, we are very vulnerable; for example, we have no direction from the council when we go to these places, much less that we get tools and tools that make us more confident or the information we have. Maybe it's a carelessness, maybe people appreciate it, so we have nothing to hide, that we're not managing any government secrets. I don't know, but it's not really nice. Therefore, we must take this seriously, listen to those who have experience and learn from it, and improve this aspect of security. People can get through our devices like everyone else. I welcome the debate as a matter of course. A senator has here, such as the first time Piratar's ever talking about security in Internet worlds or the tools we're using, but this is something we have to take seriously.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u65	President. I wondered, " Is it possible to have a lack of knowledge? ' Now our neighbors have a secret agency to look for information about such processes. We don't have anything like that, so maybe we don't have the knowledge. I'm asking why. A senator will agree that the time has come for us to seek this knowledge, however we do it, whether it would be in cooperation with neighboring nations or whether this expertise would be at home. We need to seek that knowledge and start setting up procedures. The world is changing. We see all the data spills that have been in the last few years and how people around us act on privacy and violation of it. Don't we need to take a closer look? I don't know how it would be best to get involved in these matters, whether this could become a Senate case or a report. Maybe what. A senator who has more experience in this than I do can suggest some way that could ensure that this case would be adjusted.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u66	A respectable president. In terms of the General Assembly, I think it is best to request that the Presidency Committee arrange the review and review the procedure, i.e. what has to do with members of Parliament and the Council. If I think the matter over again, I remember that the Marshal was tireless to remind me of the importance of security, a reminder that it would require extra security for stewards, whether it was phones or computers, he had specific instructions on it. This may even involve us, setting priorities, and saying that this is a big, important, serious matter. But it's always the same old story, so we have to put money on it. Of course, it takes keeping the equipment in order, using new technology, and so on. I think these may be the two biggest problems, i.e. recognize and recognize the danger and respond to it by spending money. I think there's a situation that needs to be taken care of, and it's been pointed out a lot of times.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u67	President. I thank you for this excellent review of a report by the Committee on Safety and Cooperation for the European Parliament. I would like to take advantage of this opportunity and point to the strong statements made by a representative of the European Security and Cooperation Agency Harlem Désir following the sanctuary's ban on the moment of ownership of a holding society that held over Glitnis's remaining holding property, which should be known to us where the ban was placed on the media right before the General election. No information has yet been published on how to secure the rights of the media in Iceland, but it is clear that the case is very serious. By permission of the President, I quote what Désir said about the prohibition: A aim to protect personal information is legitimate, but it needs to be interpreted narrowly and in accordance with freedom of expression. To set such a broad ban on this subject undermines the freedom of the media and the right of the public for information. We need to take these notes seriously, since the last few years have passed judgment on the European Court of Human Rights, where the United States has been considered to violate the freedom of expression by the Icelandic press. So I would like to use this opportunity under this part of the program to show how serious the situation of the freeness of speech is here in Iceland. If we feel that we are living in a democratic society, we need to see our dignity in taking such comments enormously seriously. The media are fourth power and are to sustain politicians. If we do not create a good environment for the media, we will not fulfill our obligation to democracy. In addition, I would like to remind the World Congress of the report that came from the European Security and Cooperation Agency following the 2013 General election making comments on the implementation of the election. Such comments have not been sufficiently adhered to. These include: Note that in October 2017, elections were insufficiently sealed. I hope that these matters will also be improved. I reiterate that if we think we're part of a democracy, we'll take these notes seriously and make sure that this is a legitimate security facility. Clearly, this is in the interests of the public, so it must become a force for building public trust in politics.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u68	Madam President. I would like to use this opportunity in this discussion about the SE report in order to take a closer look at what I came across. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson earlier on the so-called COPE project. It is now that the participation of Iceland in the special surveillance operations of the OSE, the so-called OSE-MM project, has not been in the past year, as shown in the case of the year. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi, Sveinsson's son. Stefán Haukur Jóhannesson was with us in Kiev on the project for a while, but there has been no one there on the part of Iceland since he left Kiev. I had a chance to travel to Kiev last autumn to get to know only the work of this country and several of its employees, so I may know a little more of my own experience about how their work works and the importance of it. This SM was set up on March 21, 2014, following the Ukraine Government's request to SE for assistance on the behalf of its transformation and was initiated with the approval of all 57 member countries of the SE, including Iceland. The team is an unarmed civilian unit, i.e. This is not a regiment. She operates in the war zones 24 hours a day, and indeed in all Ukraine and her major assignments are to observe and report neutral conflicts, thus ensuring that human rights are kept to the best of their ability and to form a record of possible offenses against the Geneva Convention and other similar factors. It also helps to transport goods, mines, and other tasks, so this is of utmost importance. As noted earlier, Iceland is a part of the existence of the band in word and not on the table, that our presence was in the form of one man, though more than I can tell others, but it's not there anymore. Since then, it has been taken from others in COPD that Iceland is one SE country that has not been present in Ukraine recently. So I call it a fix. Today, during the fourth year of the conflict in Ukraine and the forces of the Crombians and Seastropolol are only hard to deal with. So it must be vital that we adjust our approach in this matter and put forth more effort than we have. As everyone knows, it is unwise to do the same thing without saying, hoping that you will have some different result.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u69	Madam President. I now present a report by the Western Council in 2017. In the beginning, I would like to give a few general comments about the activities of the Western Council. The Council of the Faeroe Islands, the National Assembly of Greenland and the World Council established the Western Council of Parliaments in Nuuk, on Greenland, on September 24, 1985, as a cooperating site for the three Parliaments. It was thus a formalized partnership with the countries, often known as the West Witches (or Westnorden). The foundation of the Council was primarily based on national background in various areas, both in the context of historical and cultural heritage, and in the context of common environmental, transport and economic interests. At the Council's main meeting in 1997, its name was changed to the Western Council when a new stock agreement was adopted. At the same meeting, the aims of the network were sharpened, new work rules accepted, and decided to set up the Council's office and the Commission's staff located in Iceland. The Council of the Telepaths, the General Assembly of the Icelanders and the Greenlandan National Assembly each selects six representatives for a session in the Western Council, i.e. 18 agents of everything. At a meeting on January 26, 2017, the Vistoric Council of Iceland was found at a meeting of the 26th, U.S.A. The principal members were elected by Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, chairman of the Council of Independence, Lilja Magnúsdóttir Magnystótttir, vice president, Council of the Left Fights of Green Propulsion, Brynjólfsson Brynfjölsson, Pálíl Trausti Friðbertsson, Council of Independence, Harðardóttir Hardydótir, General Assembly of the Agency, and Pawel Bartoszek, a council of Environment. The objective of the Western National Council is to work in the best interests of the West-Northern, to protect resources and cultural heritage of the North Atlantic, to promote cooperation between the government and the national administrations of the West-Northern countries on important issues, and to be a contingency between Western partners. The Western Council has concluded on a number of issues, including environment, resource and transport, rescue and security, Northern health, culture, sports and youth issues, to name just a few. The Western Council meets twice a year, for a theme conference in January and for a annual meeting in August or September. A annual meeting has the highest decision force in the council. The Western Council Presidency Committee organises the annual meeting projects and activities of the Council. The prime committee consists of one representative from every country, the president, the first vice president, and the other vice president. Prescientity is divided each year between the three countries. The Council can also appoint specific work committees for specific matters. A annual meeting agrees with conclusions on a number of issues that are then proposed to the National Assembly as a conquistador proposal. In agreement with the council, the conclusions are directed to the appropriate advisers who are responsible for implementing conclusions. Each annual meeting will decide what theme theme will be considered the following year. She's up ahead now. In 2002, a signed agreement was signed on the cooperation of the Western Council and the governments of the West Nile. The contract required that the three countries make a report of the implementation of the current conclusions to the annual meeting of the Council. In addition, a prime committee would have the opportunity to meet with the legislatures of the countries in connection with the Northern Council each year. As far as possible, ministers of the country also took part in the discovery of the Western Council. The Western Council also operates on the progress of its targets through active participation in the Norwegian and European cooperation and Arctic cohesion. In 2006, a contract signed by the Western Council and the Northern Council was signed. The contract gives the Westnoric Council and the Northern Council mutual involvement rights to each other's meetings and to form a partnership further. The contract does so even. it is possible that the conclusions of the Western Council should be taken into consideration in the Northern Council. In 2011 the Western and Northern Council held their first joint conference on safety at sea in the North Atlantic. Another conference was held in 2013, discussing the use of marine resources and the third in 2016 on sustainable regional development in the north. In 2008, an agreement between the Western Council and the European Parliament had to hold a regular meeting of information and consultation. In addition, the Westnoric council has an audience at the Arctic Council and a council conference on Arctic languages. Finally, in 2016 a cooperative agreement with the Ringboard of the North reached the North. Northern Sea plains were at the scene of the Western Council in 2017. At the annual meeting of the Governing Body and at international cooperation, the challenges we face have been discussed, including in the form of climate change, acidification and pollution, but also opportunities for e.g. travel services and increased transport International interest in northern regions has increased dramatically as a result of the impact of climate change on the appearance and availability of the region. The Western Council has emphasized that the debate is centered on the people living in the north, and how to ensure safety and prosperity for the inhabitants of the region. In May, the Western Council's application to an audition for the Arctic Council was formally agreed, followed by work in the council's office to shape a policy on the observed events. During the October Circle Table of Northern URLs, the Western Institute for a seminar on the role of an observer in the Council of Arctic, where lectures with extensive experience in the work of the Council discussed how best to use an audience to influence. Immediately during the application procedure, it was decided that the Western European Commission will participate in the work force on sustainable development within the Arctic Council. In turn, the Western Institute's project proposal for the work group stresses the prevention of alcohol and drug abuse by young people in the north. It is also planned that the chairman of the Council will participate in the meeting of the Head of the Arctic Council as well as with the Commission. At the Western - American Council in the Faeroe Islands in February, sexual challenges were discussed with the emphasis on men's affairs. Among the topic was the father's birthplace and the means to increase their holiday life expectancy, health and survival of men, the right of fathers to their children after divorce, male committees in Iceland, and male groups in Greenland. A annual meeting of the Western Council was held at the General Assembly on August 31, and September 1, which was the first time a annual meeting was held in the National Assembly Hall. At a annual meeting, three conclusions were adopted that will be presented in the three Parliaments of the countries for a discussion and adopted in 2018. The first deals with the composition and version of the Western songbook with popular songs in all three languages of the country. The second conclusion encourages the three governments to look for ways to improve the cooperation of marine education, especially in fish technology and quality control. Third calls for the government to investigate the content of microplastics in marine products in the North Atlantic and the amount of plastic pollution in the ocean. Because of the short - term work of the Council in the autumn of 2016, two conclusions of the 2016 annual meeting were not reached and therefore were to be submitted to an ongoing assembly for future discussions during the assembly season. The Foreign Ministers of the West Nile addressed the Western Council's annual meeting, followed by the Ministers for a collaborative agreement based on the Western Council's conclusions. The agreement states that the Ministers will meet each year to discuss common emphasis and that a special team of workers will be formed to work on a greater cooperation and a vacation market between countries. At the Northern Parliament in Helsinki, civil Ministers also signed a collaboration agreement. That contract is a course for writers from three countries and is also based on the Western Council's conclusions. As has been observed in the presidents of the Western Council, Iceland's Branch, Greenland, and the Faeroe Islands. She had her annual meeting with the European Parliament's embassy in Brussels in June. The European Union's ban on the import of seals products and northern issues was mainly considered. Then, in October, a prime committee was involved in the 69th Council of the Northern Country of Helsinki, where she met with the councils of the West Nile and the prime committee of the Northern Council. Discussing the meetings included The audience at the North Pole, the affairs of the north, and the seabed. Madam President. Iceland branch held seven meetings in the year in which meetings in the council were prepared and the work of the Council was discussed. At one meeting, Iceland's department invited representatives from the National Council of Northern Iceland and Iceland for a convention on the Northern Seas. At the meeting, there was a discussion on northern and northern issues. Last December 14, after the election by the end of October 2017, the New Iceland Department held her first meeting between Christmas and New Year's. The chief members of the Iceland Department are the Directors of S. Brjánsson, chairman of the United States Congress, Egilsdóttir Ericlddótttir, vice president, Special Assembly of the House, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Congress of the Independence Company, Haraldsdóttir, Sæland Goland, National Congress, and Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir Magnústir, United States Group of the Left Voluntary. At the 2017 Western Council annual meeting, it was agreed that the next press conference of the Council would be in Ilulissat, Greenland, in January 2018, and that the theme materials would be a challenge and opportunity to travel in the Western nationalities. The conference will be held for the weekend to come and will be attended by the members of the Iceland Department. A respectable president. I have now killed the major elements of Iceland's Western Council in 2017 but have called attention to a more detailed written report available on the web and on paper. I've finished my review now.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u70	Madam President. I'd like to enter this discussion as a representative of the Western Council for several years. This cooperation is very rewarding and interesting, and much is related to the countries in the north, Iceland, the Faeroe Islands, and Greenland. As shown in a report of recent years, we are faced with challenges that affect people in the north. The president of Iceland, what. paritaprevir Brjánsson; challenges in climate and acidification are very busy at this time, and we in the north need to worry about this. Nowhere is the temperature in the atmosphere as high as in the north, and it affects the sea and life on which these nations feed. We need to be concerned about pollution, especially plastic pollution and microplastics here in the North Atlantic. It is not surprising, then, that there was a suggestion in the field of the annual meeting here in Reykjavík, here at the National Assembly, for the first time, as shown in the Sermon on the Mount. President of Iceland. The detection motion for the microplastic and plastics in the ocean was to be checked for the content of microplastics in marine products in the North Atlantic and for the amount of plastic pollution at sea. It is a suggestion that will be brought up at these three Parliaments, and hopefully it will turn out to be a success and a follow-up, for this is a very serious and serious matter. Not only are sea fish eating plastic but consumers in the country may also be eating fish products that contain plastic. It has a profound effect on people's health and health, and it is vital to take this matter seriously. But this north country is certainly an opportunity for tourism. There are some things we need to stick to together. That's why it's very good that we've got an audience in the North Pole and we're participants in the Ringboard of the North. There we had a seminar on sustainable development last year and a team was set up for sustainable development. Among other things, prevention of alcohol and drug abuse in the North was emphasised, which is, of course, one problem facing these nations. There we can impart knowledge and experience, as well as the lessons we learned from our neighbors. I believe that this annual meeting has been successfully handled here in Iceland on August 31 to September 1. A fine participation was on behalf of Iceland's representatives at the meeting, and he was successful in all aspects. Some may feel that it is minor to suggest that a Norwegian songbook be produced in three languages. They are not much of a language area, but they must be held up at the same time by a song tradition. That's one of the things that's connected these nations together in cooperation, singing. It's just as important that people connect with one another, you enjoy each other. I think the song connects everyone, whether in this partnership or in the other. I think it is relatively rare that as much singing is being done in the cooperation of foreign countries in which we are involved and in cooperation with the Western Council. How good it is that we share joy and share in those nations at the same time! As a result, we draw closer to each other and carry out our assignment as cousins. I also want to guess what's interesting to me, and there was a theme conference last fall in the Faeroe Islands. The Western Youth Council approached that theme conference. It is designed to form newly formed and appoint representatives of the juvenile political parties in the Western Netherlands. It held its first meeting in October 2016 in Iceland and adopted the five conclusions presented to the Westnoric Council. I found these conclusions to be very appealing, and I was delighted to hear the voices of the young people merged with these nations. They agreed on what it was urgent to do. It may be noted that much community discussion was made, free access to psychiatric services for young people, increased education in Western countries, and increased housing for young people. It burns on our neighbors too. A new generation uses the same language in these matters. It will be interesting to see the suggestions of young ones that we can move on to our conventions. Hopefully, they will be brought into action. I'm not gonna keep this case much further. I'd like to mention, since there has been a debate about oil processing in the community and our participation in a study in the Dragon Zones of oil and gas, that I believe Iceland is very important that fossil fuels will not be won in the north. I think there's a great deal of interest in these nations that we're not about to open one of those Pandora boxes. We are members of the UN Climate Convention, the agreement made in Paris, and should do our part. The inhabitants of the north and these countries depend largely on our waters not to be contaminated. We should not take any chances in these matters. It is very important for us in the North to work on greenhouse climate changes that have been occurring and are always increasing and acidification in the future. I think this is one of the issues that will be at the top of the discussion, whether in the Arctic Council, in the Western partnership or in the area where the issues of the north will be discussed. I look forward to sharing in the future theme conference on Ilulissat next week. These include the challenges and future of traveling services in these countries. I know it'll be a good and productive job. A good meeting lies ahead of us in the Western Council's Iceland department with these neighbors.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u71	A respectable president. I can't help coming up here discussing the Western Council's issues on the report, but I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The Gulde of Brjánsson for a good review of the report. I sit in the Western Council's Iceland Department, leading the last term and, in fact, also taking the lead on a prime committee that then became part of Iceland. I'd like to heighten the enormous importance of the northern affairs of the Westnoric Council and how big a step it was this year when the Westnorological Council received an audience of the Northern Council. It may be not because of the status of the local Iceland department but because of those who were ahead of us and applied for our audiences and who worked hard to get it approved. I'd like to first mention Unnur Brá Konráðsdóttir, former president of the Generals and former president of the Iceland Institute of the Western Council, who worked hard on this. At the same time, you have a seat in the Republic of the Western Council, Lilja Rafiy Magnney, the daughter of Oddný new Harðardóttir Hardydour, Páll Valur Björnsson, Páll Jóhann Pálsson, and the Þorsteinn son of Sæmundsson. To forget the advanced executive director of the Western Council, Inga Dóra Markussen, who has worked hard to get our audience approved and to determine how we should cooperate with it. To help her, Guðjónsdóttir Ása was also the daughter of Gjonna. So it's a huge deal to get approved on this public property. You feel it when you go out on the scene and discuss this point that the European Union has been seeking an audience for years and is not comfortable with not yet getting it approved. As already noted, the Western Council's objective is to work in the interests of Western Vietnam and protect our resources and our cultural heritage and contribute to the cooperation of the government. We generally meet in the Western Council twice a year, in a theme conference in January, and in a annual meeting in August or early September. As noted in their case, why? The senators who spoke before me were held a theme conference in the Faeroe Islands about a year ago. It was very interesting to talk there about equality, but especially from men and their position in the modern world. It was really interesting to listen to a specialist from the Segressor Lab, Hallgrímsson, cross the post here at home. We may have been with the first few countries to focus especially on men when it comes to the equality talk. It's obvious, and we all know it in this room, how long Iceland is being discussed on equality and how successful we have achieved, although we do not feel the results are satisfactory, far from now on. But there, we obviously have something to offer, both in Western cooperation and in international cooperation over our heads. I would also like to mention the Young People Ask Council, which was very interesting to meet with. It was nice to hear their views and opinions and to see how close they were to one another, whether from Greenland, Faeroe Islands, or Iceland. Like what? paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir came in earlier, and we found this interesting thought to be an interesting experience. Sadly, though, we have not been able to find a way for young people to enter the future. It may be devoted primarily to money and that we have decided to devote ourselves now to our being as an observer of the Arctic matter. But I insist that I think it's important to keep young people involved in the future and try to find ways to do so. I'd also like to mention a meeting that I took to represent the Western Presidency Committee in Brussels last June, where we discussed good people like seal hunts and seals and slang fishing that we have very often discussed in the European Union. We discussed research and development, and I brought it up, stressing the need to ensure, in increasing numbers, that Western universities and research institutions would be allowed access to research projects in the north. Of course, the European Union is running a huge research and development program with enormous financial resources. Me and the Icelanders have had access to that project. In fact, they tend to become huge and sometimes difficult for smaller parties, institutions, and universities. I think it is important to look for some kind of knowledge group on these matters, and I asked the European Union to keep that in mind. In fact, I think we Iceland's members should keep in mind when talking to the European Union about the strategy of cutting back on our arrival, opportunities and opportunities, as well as opportunities for the Greenlands and the Faeroes when it comes to affairs related to the sea and the north. I'd also like to mention in particular our annual meeting which was particularly pleasant and which was as mentioned, here in this hall, for the first time about the August/September month convention. I think the annual meeting went very well. The first part of that annual meeting was when the three foreign ministers met in a conversation about Western cooperation, Arctic, environmental, and marine affairs. It was easy to hear that they were very interested in developing this cooperation and that they thought it was important. For this reason, the Ministers signed a collaborative agreement based, in effect, on the Western Council's conclusions. The contract shows that the Ministers will meet each year to discuss common emphasis, and a special team will be formed to work on a greater team of cooperation and a vacation store between countries. It was surprising, then, when Danir decided that it had Greenland and the movers, in effect, gone beyond their foreign authority, and it actually judges this deal. I think this is a lot of thought for us. It was really doing nothing but that, perhaps, the things we've been working on in a Western partnership. I know that in the Faeroe Islands, this operation of the Danish government was very angry. I haven't heard so much of our discussion in Greenland, but I'm assuming that we in Iceland hear more of it now at our next meeting with the Western Council. I think there's a reason for us to keep this in mind. Me and the Icelanders will not use us any further, because we also have a good partnership with Dani. But we have often been on the scene of both the Northern and the Western Council trying to support ourselves and strengthen our fine comrades in the Faeroe Islands and Greenland. Finally, I'd like to introduce a proposal that will be discussed with us at an additional meeting of the Iceland Institute of the Western Council now in Greenland next week as a subject of approach to our role as an observer in the Council of the Arctic. There's a suggestion for a study of the use of alcohol and drugs by young people in the North. In effect, this refers to what many know as the Icelandic model. We've been studying drug and alcohol abuse in young people for quite a while, and here are some very good data to investigators. I know that Icelandic societies have used them very extensively in their preemptive work. It compares much with the knowledge of the successes and lives of young people; however, it can be compared with the preemptive actions of the local community or community. I really hope that this will be accepted as our focus, and we can take it into the working group we are in as an observer to the Council of the North, and it will be approved there. Then Iceland would lead it to that fine team of working men. I also think there's a chance for Icelanders. It is often said internationally: It does not matter how large we are, what we have to offer. There we have very interesting experience and the knowledge of Icelandic scholars on how to succeed in this vital matter. I sincerely hope that we will make use of it, and our associates in Greenland and the Faeroe Islands agree to support this project. Then I think I'll close my case, end my time, and tell you that it's been a great pleasure working in the Western Council and, in fact, more exciting than I may have anticipated at the beginning, and I expect a good cooperation with the New Iceland Department of the Westnorological Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u72	Madam President. Thank you. Council members for the discussion of the year report of the Western Council for 2017 For innovation in the Western Council of Iceland, it looks to me as a very exciting scene. Obviously, there are many challenges. The interests are clearly common for these three Western countries. A person quickly senses how close we are, even though we do not travel much to Greenland or the Faeroe Islands. We should do much more. It involves work, whether it applies to the air, the ocean, or the language and culture. That's where we're on a boat together, even though the Icelanders are on their big brother in this cooperation. We feel that responsibility. We may be on the front side of our peers and contribute more to the work of the Council than the rest of the countries. As I mentioned in my report, the Council's Commissioner has settled in Iceland. The Western Council is benefiting from the presence of the General Assembly and the goodwill and the facilities and other factors. It takes many hands for the function to flourish and be made ambitiously. Although the last term had been historicly short, the retired president worked a great and good job and was a powerful spokesman. Our manager has retired, but a new manager has been hired. Inga Dóra Markussen has been executive director for the past few years but has now gone to other jobs, Greenland. There is reason to thank her especially for all the fine work she did. She was a great, good spokesman for our whole area. Of course, we expect much of a new executive named Sigurður Ólafsson. Then I'm looking forward to working with my friends in the Iceland Department. They are outstanding individuals who have some experience in the work within the body. Others are so newborns like me. I hereby complete the coverage of the Western Council report.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u73	Madam President. I present the report of the European Parliamentary Commission EFTA and EEA by 2017. It's a good thing to start by explaining that the U.S. Senate Department of EFTA and EES, who have five members of the Committee, constitutes a delegation of the World Congress Committee of EFTA and EES, which is in fact the same committee. Even though Iceland's Department is the same with the same people, it, along with four members of the Foreign Affairs Committee, constitutes the Allegorium of the European Parliament and the European Union. European Free Trade Association, i.e. EFTA and the European Economic Area play an important role as the foundation of the Icelandic foreign trade. With its involvement in the EEA, Iceland is largely the same business group as 30 other European countries, with some 500 million markets. In addition to the implementation of the EEA Convention, EFTA has built a powerful network of free trade agreements with non-EU countries or so-called third countries. At the review of the European Parliamentary Committee and the EEA on the EEA Convention and its activities it was customary to review the number of EU types on the internal market that await recording in the EEA Convention, on the other hand, the EEA/EFTA Member States, which measures the rapid implementation of the types already adopted in the EEA Convention. It is important to record a record of the contract and induction of the EEA/EFTA countries in a smooth manner. This guarantees legal harmony in the inner markets, one of its key elements. The EFTA Free Trade Convention with non - EU countries, a so - called third state, was very high on the agenda of the Council Committee. EFTA has been in the world's contribution to free trade agreements. There are 27 relevant treaties now and 38 countries. EFTA is now engaged in an active vacation business with nine countries, including Argentina, Brazil, India, and Indonesia. The EFTA Senate Committee in recent years has loyally supported free trade agreements, using emissaries and senators visits to promote and support such agreements. The head of Parliamentary Committee of the EFTA (EFT) visited Canada and Mexico this year and had discussions with the former government, members of Congress, institutions, and stakeholders on the free business and increased economic cooperation with EFTA. The 2009 Free Trade Convention EFTA and Mexico Convention and EFTA and Canada only trades. The objective of this visit was to seek support to update and expand the contracts, such as service transactions, investments, and mental rights. The expected exits of Britain from the EU, Bfenit, as it has been called, were repeated this year's coverage. The future trade of Britain is a major interest in EFTA, the largest commercial partner in Iceland and Norway in the EEA. Four potential outcomes were mentioned more frequently than others. First, that the EFTA countries became additional partners of the EU and Britain's agreement for a future relationship, but it still remains unclear whether such an agreement will develop or what it might look like and whether it would be available to the EFTA countries. Second, the possibility was that the four EFTA countries made a contract with Britain. Third, it would be considered that the three EFTA/EES countries without Switzerland had agreed on this agreement. Fourth, it could be that each EFTA State made a two-way contract with Britain. Other issues that were at the top of the Parliament's Committees of EFTA and EEA during the year include the development of international trading, the forced action against Russia, the affairs of the north, equality, and the free trade and information freedoms associated with free trades. The Iceland Department, as usual, was very active in the activities of the EFTA and EES committees during the year, and was highly active in all major matters. Especially is this true in 2017. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson initiatived to report equality issues in free trade. It pointed out that from 2010, EFTA has adopted a special chapter on sustainable development and work protection in free trade agreements as well as that, in the preamortion of contracts, democracy, human rights, and the legal state. She said that it was time to take up a set of sex equivalents, but international developments in that direction had occurred in the last phase. In the spring of 2017, Canada's Free Trade and Chile, have often been mentioned with a very detailed section on equality. A discussion of the need for sex equality in business has also taken place in the European Union, the United Nations, OECD, and the International Business Agency. The European Commission on Business Affairs, Cecilia Malmström, who came to us on the Commission for the last time, had declared that it was to consider improving the criteria of gender equality into the European Union's holiday agreements. The purpose of such a decision would be to ensure that the economic gain of the business would benefit all as well as to show that increasing the participation of women in business would have a positive impact on the economic development of countries. Hanna Katrín mentioned that she had handled the matter at a meeting of the Council Committee and the minister of EFTA in June 2017 at Svalbard and that three of the four advisers had responded. In that case, the model plan for Liechtenstein's EFTA for the latter part of 2017 will take a closer look. While a decision was made on the matter of the Parliamentary Committee, there was a very different opinion on the proposal. The Norwegian embassy supported the case, but Switzerland's embassy and Liechtenstein were opposed. The decision was to postpone the decision, but Katrín was to reexamine the matter at a meeting of the Council of Parliaments and the Council of Ministers of EFTA. Then I myself took the initiative to report the freedom of information and a vacation store, which included. it was observed that as the information community and the shared economy grow, it is increasingly important to ensure the freedom of information in international commerce. Freeness of information would be important for all market members in order to evaluate the availability and demand for goods and services. Opacity markets could only result in systematic inefficiency. In Western lands, the situation is generally good, and in many places it is guaranteed by law that the Internet is an open and neutral site for free flow of information. In many other countries, political developments in an effort to prevent information flows are almost gendars that are incompatible with an idea of noncommunication. I proposed to the EFTA Council Committee that freedom of information was adopted in free trade agreements, including It would require lack of network, access to market information, and the prohibition of any type of censorship. I was assigned to win it further and reexamine it to the next meeting of the Committee. I'm not going to trace all of the committee meetings, which can be considered in the report but only if I can do a little about the main thing that happened. One problem was that at the meeting of the EFTA Committee in Brussels on March 22, 2017, the Hosuk Lee-Makiyama, who was one of the delegates. He was reviewing his prospects for international business. That's where we even came from. to the point that there was a void in the leadership of international commerce. The United States would have set aside Trumpur's new government, which drew the United States out of a group of Pacific freewills, called Trans Pacific Partnership, by permission of a president. It is important to note that in these last days, the TPPs, outside the United States, the deal, and those under Japan's leadership, were finished. Those who know that the contract has actually improved considerably after the loss of the United States, as the importance of the United States and the other member states differs. It was also noted that the European Union may not have the credibility to take on the role of the United States in international commerce and that it is quite vague of the future of free business discussions across the Atlantic Ocean between the United States and the EU. The TTIP deal would be in a state of shock. Cecilia Malmström, the director of the EU business I mentioned earlier, came to the Commission and discussed the situation of business relations between the European Union and the United States. Some very misleading statements have been made by the new U.S. government on business and, including, the United States. There is talk of protective policy and a marked rise in customs that would, of course, violate the rules of the International Business Agency. However, Cecilia Malmström case stated that the European Union would not take sides with this until the official recommendations of the United States are submitted. There were also cases of judicial actions in disputes between countries and investors, called ISDS regulations presented in many new vacation agreements. The ISDS are very controversial, both in public and in various European countries, e.g. Germany and Austria In fact, I've criticized these regulations here. This appears to be the development of many countries in regard to these issues. A significant discussion on the development of economic developments was created at a meeting of the European Parliament and the European Parliament at Brussels on March 23, which covered the future challenges of the internal market, the planned discharge of Britain from the EU, which was approximately the main line in all of the discussions of the Committee last year. No matter where we went, Bbifit was our main subject. In fact, while there is no real understanding of what is really happening, it looks like something that will continue to be very prominent in the years ahead. At the moment, it is based primarily on speculation. At the end of this year, however, we may begin to see the land, wherever it goes. The European Union's forced action against Russia, foreign affairs in the North Atlantic and foreign affairs against third countries was also discussed. The next time, a high priority will be to increase the number of free trade agreements with the third countries, as mentioned earlier. This can be considered in the report that has taken place in the past year. Finally, much comes into the table of the European Parliament Committees of the EU and EFTA. Free business discussions with other countries will continue to be emphasized. There will be a special errand to speak with the Mercosur State now after the Passover, as well as many topics that will be presented at EEA meetings with the Committee, the European Union, and so on. I guess it's gonna be a pretty good year for us, because there's a lot to talk about. But I end this with the hope of continuing good cooperation with the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u74	Madam President. I want to thank the senator for the report. Of course, it covers a wide range of subjects and topics that are discussed in the United States and that are important to Iceland. I would only like to address the work of the Committee and the discussions relating to Baltrexit, since this is now a very high priority. I'd like to ask the senator if he can dig a little deeper, we should say, the report, or his experience with how the Bgret speech deals with the work of the joint committee and what it feels like, as he gets the best report from conversations and conferences with the Committee from other countries, that they will be heading or policying. As well as whether there has been a discussion in the field that has been in harmony with what the Icelandic government would like to say, that in Bgret is an opportunity, and what other countries, to see the EEA agreement, are the main ones and whether they are somehow similar to the one the Icelandic government seems to hide in Bgreit.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u75	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for this excellent inquiry. As I mentioned, the discussion with this committee has been entirely fueled by discussions about Baltrexit. It may take many days to review all that has been said on that subject. We have even. has discussions with European Parliamentes, such as Philippe Lamberts, Elmar Brok, and Danuta Hübner. We've had a lot of good times, including... Catherine Stihler of Scotland, who strongly believes that Britain should remain in the European Union. We have also met European Parliamentes, the British, who are very involved in going out. Of course, the situation is that the discussion is somehow an accident because there is no bottom line. During more discussions with Iceland's senators, Switzerland, Norway, and Liechtenstein, there have been rather speculations as to whether there are any opportunities or if this is just an emergency. The general elephant, as I have experienced, has not been to the point where people are especially enjoying it, since it upsets many business ventures, especially with Britain, and also keeps people from doing other things. It's been discussed even. to suggest Britain's informal development in Britain for Britain to appear in EFTA. Even at the highest. Iceland's minister of foreign affairs has been a great history of that, not too excited, but of not wanting to rule out anything either. So it's a very deep discussion, and it's hard to explain in two minutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u76	Madam President. I can see that it's hard to do an intimate and profound explanation for this conversation, but thank you very much. A senator for his efforts. Of course, I'd like to reiterate, since the Senator used an emergency, that men hadn't declared a state of emergency in him, I don't think that this is anything like this for Iceland. Of course, it is the obligation of the Icelandic government to monitor this very carefully, making no effort to ensure that communication between Iceland and Britain will be as extensive and as close as possible to the Bgrets. What I'd like to pray for. A senator thinking only with me is whether it might be that way by the way Iceland interacts with other countries, i.e. With the European Union, their concern for the EEA Convention or their emphasis may not be sufficient, so I put it that way, on the EEA integration and the development in Europe. That the work involved in protecting Iceland's interests in Britain and Begreit is a priority that we have despite all and are much more involved with the European Union and maintaining a good relationship with all the other countries that are going to remain in great and close contact with us and with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u77	Madam President. Yes, I used the word "an emergency," for that is the way it is at the other end of the row. Of course, no one has declared an emergency and no reason. But this is a major concern in many ways and in much of the minds of the British people who are deeply concerned about the use of air traffic agreements, their membership in Europe's Nuclear Coalition, and so forth, not to mention this wide variety of vacations. There is reason to wonder. A senator mentions. It's a question of where we put the emphasis. Now the committee visited Iceland's embassy in Brussels and spoke to the wonderful staff there. Most remarkable, though, was their receiving. The Norwegian embassy is now comparable in Brussels with 70 employees. With us, it's only 14 that I look like Brussels. Of course, that might have changed a little bit, and it was even to reduce one by one to further strengthen the London embassy. I don't know how it's gone. But it's a little carefree from this most important vacation contract in Iceland, i.e. The EEA deal. In spite of its introduction in various directives. One example in this context is the mail directive that Iceland has drawn out for a very long time, and now the rest of the EEA countries are getting a little tired of waiting for us. I think there's every reason to stress the EEA deal considerably more. Of course, we have to protect Iceland's interests against Britain and what's happening there, but it's a natural and complex matter. [[The president calls.]] I hope we can discuss this more in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u78	Madam President. There is a report in 2017 from the Northern Parliament Committee, or a Senate conference on Arctic languages, as this really is. Every two years, or every two years, the role of the Senate is about a conference. There are eight northern states and a representative of the European Council. The year in which a conference is not held is met by the presidents of committees. The committee usually appoints three senators. Meetings attended by the committee typically include three or four to four each year. The role of that panel, the International Parliament Committee, is to offer suggestions on emphasis on the Arctic Council. As obvious as it may be, the lawgiver, or assembly, of the nations are calling to action, for as is known, the Council of North Pole itself is appointed to representatives of the governments. Our heart's affairs from Iceland have been as urgent as they are, sustainable travel services, Icelandic experience in these chemicals, the right to sea use has been mainly about mammals, i.e. A seal, a whale, a polar bear, and a shung, and then equal to the sexes we believe is a very important matter in the north, a key to many solutions to problems there. Now for a while, a conference will be held in the fall of Inari. Then new emphasis comes into play. We've been discussing the importance of innovation. We've talked about the resistance to drug and alcohol consumption of youths or the young generation, using the so - called Icelandic model that sometimes came under the name 'Planett yth◯ in English, where we're looking at Westnorden or the Western or Western Council, which has taken it up on its arms and wants to support it in being extended to all the northerns. We have talked about native schools or seminars, but as the term suggests, it is not an indigenous school as many people might think but, vice versa, that native scholars believe in their vision of nature and climate change and how to live under changed circumstances. This could be a school or a course. We've discussed improved social services. We've discussed energy production in a novel way and increasing communication technology in the north or in a better relationship, phones, computers, and other factors, which are very important in these areas. This is what we're going to make better shape to attend the Inari conference in the fall. When she is finished, these suggestions, usually consisting of 30 to 1940, can be called conclusions, short conclusions, march into the Arctic Council, and get treated there, hopefully leading to some effect. Iceland is the head of the Arctic Council of 2019. It is important that the Council connects to the preparation and work that has already begun to involve the two-year procedure and the importance of Iceland's work. It is very important to try to ensure that the content of the council's work is just as important as the Arctic Council's work and policy. So this is the important work of a small committee. She works very well. There is special reason to be able to help the secretary of the Committee, Arna Bang, which is, in effect, a major factor that drives this machine, this little committee. Last year, on Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson and Óli Björn Kárason, I met with me. Now a new committee has come to the fore. She's been chosen here at the council. Besides me, she will be seated on Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson and Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir. I won't take this much longer. The report is open, both online and otherwise. Let it be done here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u79	A respectable president. I present a report by the International Parliament, IPU, by 2017. Of the many and varied issues discussed in the EU during 2017, there may be several things that the Iceland Department claims to stand up for as far as the policy of the relationship is concerned, but they are working toward peace and cooperation among nations, and they trust democracy and government representatives. First, there may be a discussion on how cultural polygamy and peace can be developed through religious and social differences. The Union's discovery of the importance of preventing intolerance, distrust, and violence was emphasized. In addition, an increased international cooperation on the UN's new goal of sustainable development was concluded with emphasis on women as the driving force for evolution. At that time, the position of women in the world's Common Assembly and how to increase their access to political involvement was discussed as to how to combat discrimination in the world and the world's Common Assembly encouraged to focus more fully on equality issues that are normally common among the world councils. An external talk on international action in the battle against famine was also held at the spring convention of the Union in several countries of Africa and Yemen. In addition, this year's discussions on the role of regional conventions were focused on respecting the principle that will not be involved in the domestic affairs of sovereign countries. The 20th anniversary of the international declaration of democracy was also reasoned on the diversity of human life, and a high priority was given to the equality of the sexes, free elections, independence, and the freedom of the media, and the protection of the rights of minorities in society. Other major issues that we can mention from the International Parliament's report that were discussed last year were terrorist activity and the fight against it, the war of Syria, the serious state of humanitarian affairs, the affairs of immigrants and refugees, democracy and young people, and we also discussed the Internet development of Congress and community media. There is also the important work of the International Parliament to promote democracy, but many of the EU Member States are still not democratically elected, and some do not carry out their own legal work. As an example of such activity in 2017, there are local language clinics on the part of the Union regarding the involvement of young people in politics in Africa. Furthermore, the International Parliamentary Union publishes handbooks and reports for members of Congress to help them influence different localities. Last year, there was a difference between the two of us. published a report on key case policies and legislation in relation to climate change. Otherwise, the report on the meetings held in 2017 will be discussed in more detail. in New York, Bangladesh, we also had a meeting in Cheflavík and Reykjavík. Then there was a meeting in Russia, St. In addition to me, the International Parliamentary Department of Congress last Ármannsson was Chairman Birgitta and Vice - President Jónsdóttir Jóttir. I am chairman of the New International Department of Iceland, and Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, and Ágústsson Ólafur Águst. The report is provided for further introductions. But I would also like to thank our committee secretary especially, Arna Bang, who has done a priceless job with us senators last year.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u80	Madam President. Here I present a report by the NATO Council of Iceland before 2017. NATO is a member of Congress, and since 1954, there has been the scene of the Council members of NATO for security and protection. Until 1999, the Council carried the name of the Northern Atlantic Council, then called the NATO Council. In recent years, the number of Member States and the addition of the NATO Council has increased rapidly and has been expanded in accordance with the changes in countries that have previously belonged to the Soviet Union and the countries of central and Eastern Europe. Nine democratic states from the former Communist states have now increased to the council, as well as to the neutral European states; Austria, Switzerland, Sweden, and Finland, which means that these countries can participate in activities and discussions at the council. The Council's work is increasingly focused on the overall security of Europe, economic and political problems in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and on the global security system. The Rose-Roth program also supports the development of a conniving democracy in Europe and nearby states. On January 26, 2017, the U.S. Department of Iceland was a Concierge meeting. The principal members were elected Director Alaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigurbjörn's daughter, the Council of Independence, the Vice - President Alfreðsdóttir Alfreddddds' daughter, the House of Congress, and Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, a assembly of reverends. The secretary of Iceland was Arna Gerður Bang an international secretary. The division of Iceland's Department on Committees in 2017 was as follows: Board of directors: Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigbjörndóttir Political Commission: Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigbjörndóttir Security and Security Committee: Valdimarsson Steindór Valmardsson. Civil Security Committee: Jón Steindór Valdimarsson Economic Commission: Lilja Alfreðsdóttir Scientific and technical committee: Lilja Alfreðsdóttir Workgroup in the Mediterranean area: Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigbjörndótttir On December 14, last year, the New Iceland Department was a kosin, and this election of the League for the entire ultimatum period by Congress. However, the Senate can choose again at any time if more than the members of the council are requested. The nobles are Deputy Director Njljläri Friðbertsson of the Council of Independence, Vice President K. Gunnarsdóttir, General Recon, and General Willum Þór Þórsson. This year Alfreðsdóttir Alfreddótir was reporting on economic cooperation across the Atlantic. At the Council of NATO in 2017, the battle against terrorism and terrorist organizations was the highest, like the Islamic state. In May, Barcelona in August and New York in October 2017, terrorist attacks continued to increase the concern of the member states and led to the loss of Member States. to increase the emphasis on the common struggle between the United States and Europe against terrorism. Then there was the instability in the waters of the Mediterranean and North Africa in focus, especially with regard to the conflicts in Syria, Iraq, and Libya, which have greatly increased the flow of refugees to neighboring areas and Europe, resulting in widespread safety threat in the Middle East. In the Middle East, a terrorist organization in Syria, Iraq, and Libya has produced increased insecurity that requires political reactions to achieve stability. At the same time, the situation in Ukraine after Russia's military campaigns in the country was stressed by cold communication between NATO and Russia. In 2014, the NATO council's reaction to the incorporation of Russia at the Crimea was decisive and offered a unanimous vote by the Russians losing their position as an additional member state of the NATO Council. Emphasis was placed on solidarity with the people of Ukraine and on NATO to support the Ukrainian government. NATO's association with Russia has not been as bad since the Cold War as has been, and has intensified as a result of the growing Russian military intervention in Syria. However, the committee discussed the importance of conversation between the Russians and the NATO council. Furthermore, the importance of reducing the cut-off of budgets for defense and security was discussed with the commitment of Member States and sharing responsibilities within the Community. It would be necessary to increase the budget for defense, especially in order to respond to the safety threat near Europe and strengthen the position of NATO against Russia. The importance of closer cooperation between NATO and the European Union was also discussed and concluded on the basis of it. Then continued protection and safety support was discussed in Afghanistan, especially in view of the elimination of the NATO force from the country at the end of 2014. Nevertheless, after the departure of the multinational army, it would have to be very loyal to the government in Afghanistan to secure it. Then there was a discussion of equality within the NATO Council. Special attention was given to gender balance within the council, i.e. how there were gender proportions in the Senate and building up and how equalities would be protected from policy development. There were also discussions of the development of the NATO and the Community on the resolution of the United Nations Security Council of Nations No. 1325 about women, peace, and security. Other major issues under consideration in 2017 include safety issues in the North, Community implementation programmes, the validation of the Montenegro's Member States, and cooperation, and the policy of opening up new Member States. At the same time, the NATO Council has followed up the issues that have been high in international security debates outside and within the Community and that have affected, including energy security, network security, missile control and the importance of theisation of the NATO Parliament at the time of change in international politics.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u81	A respectable president. I recommend a synopsis proposal for death support. Besides me, it's up to the council agreement to see what it's all about. paritaprevir Friðriksson; Katrín, Jón of Fridri; Jódrímsson; Kolbeinn, Steindór of Proppé; Silja, Gunnarsdóttir, the daughter of Gunnarsson; Bjölijah the Björn of Leví; Günán the son of Brjánsson; and Bergþór the son of Ólason. The rationalization motion is to assign a health minister to collect information on death support and the development of a line around death aid where it is permitted as well as frequency, cause and condition of death relief and what experience have been experienced in those countries. We will also find special attention to the discussion, if it is any, in lands that do not allow death support and that we will set out especially in the northern, Germany, and Canada. We also wish to have a survey of health - care professionals on their death - care attitude, whether death aid is justified in certain cases or not, if they were prepared to accept such a wish for fulfilled conditions and provided that it conforms to Icelandic law. We request a report by the end of August 2018. I'm going to make it clear to you first that the reason why I propose the synonym, and this good group of officials, is not that the members of Congress require their stand on the tremendous and important moral questions that death aid may be, or if there is anyone willing to make a change in the law here on the land. The primary purpose of this delicate matter is to trust the basis for needed discussion. You see, I have full faith that the talk about death relief is not running away from us. It's all around us, and it's been in Icelandic society. Then I also intend to assume that the word "death " is translated from the Greek word" e·euthanatisia, " meaning good death, or death with dignity. This has also been used for euthanasia or suicide aid. I find the word euphoric aid far more vivid to describe what we are discussing. It is reason to assume that in 2015 the Civilians surveyed their principles of life and the beliefs of the Icelanders. One of the questions raised in that survey was whether the individual was in favor or opposed because a person could be helped to end his life if he has an incurable disease. 74.9% of respondents were highly or more in favor, 18% were neither nor, while 7.1% were very or rather opposed. There have also been studies performed by a healthcare professional. For example, an article in the 1997 medical journal found that only 5% of the doctors and 9% of nurses thought that euthanasia was justified, but only 2% of respondents were able to accept such a wish. In 2010 a comparable survey was conducted. At that time, the proportion of physicians who considered it to be justified was 18% and 20% of nurses. But only 3% wanted to achieve such a wish. I know that a recent investigation was made, and it was written in the media. I'm sorry, but I didn't have a name for the investigator, who I know was following his study from high school not long ago. I think it specifically spoke of sociologists, if I recall correctly, who had answered that investigation. Of course, because we transporters suggest that this is not just a summary, as is known in the countries around us and how it has been accomplished, but rather that there is a survey by health care professionals, it is unlikely that even if there is wide agreement in the community to make changes in the law code, it would have some effect or would actually matter if health professionals would not want to take it on their own. That, of course, is a big question if we are going to make some adjustment in the Law code. I restate on the fact that we are primarily asking for information on how this has been going in other countries. We are not putting it on the senators at this point to take some stand, not at all. But I believe that it will soon come to that, whether this synoptic proposal is adopted and then a legal bill will follow or some other person will come up with this case, that we need to start making it up to us whether we feel normal to be looking for a change in law. For such discussions to be meaningful and objective, I think it is important that good information be the basis for such discussions. It's a big moral matter, and, of course, much of it is driven by a feeling that's just normal, that's the case. But then I think it's good to examine the experience as well. There is reason to believe that I and other transporters have met with the leading members of the organization life respect, a new organization that was formed months ago or several months ago. It's a death aid organization. They met several members of Congress here and informed us about the situation in the Netherlands. Along with them was Dutch doctors who had participated in this process in the Netherlands and who have followed closely the experience there. It is their assessment that these organizations stand that, if I allow myself to use the Dutch language, it is reasonable and they gave us some information about the situation in the Netherlands. The Swiss also have a legal frame around these matters. He's different from the Dutch guy. Maybe he'll keep an eye on anything less. Some states in the United States have been aiding suicide, and different laws are in different states. Thus, there are many and varied ways in which governments have taken their stand. Therefore, I think it's fine that we get a summary of what the party's assessment of how it's done and what the law is because it's certainly very different. I don't think I've got this for a while. I see people are interested in speaking up about this fine subject, and they look forward to the perturbing and excellent discussion of this other delicate matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u82	A respectable president. First of all, thank you very much for this tour and history. I find the approach to the council arrangement very interesting, especially to see how the situation is in other countries, as well as that it recommends a survey of health care professionals. I wanted to ask the senator how that poll was thought. Are we talking about health professionals who work with older ones or patients who suffer from advanced illness? Has a senator thought about e.g. employees who cooperate with spiritually sick people? Has the idea come to consult also staff at the Land Hospital or other health care professionals who work with individuals who suffer from spiritual illness?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u83	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. She asks who the workers were looking for. I believe it is important that a general survey be conducted among doctors and nurses. This may be because we have such tests taken from the point of view of the magnitude of the selection in those surveys. I think it would be important to watch that all doctors and nurses, and there are no doubt more classes in the medical sector, would answer such questions. But it may also be normal to classify them according to trade. When we had a fine meeting with this Dutch doctor, I recall that he said that there was a little difference between doctors'position in the sector. I'm sure it's normal. If we continued to look at the Dutch route, there are family doctors who accept such requests. The contact physician must accept the request and also receive confirmation from another physician to allow it to occur. In other words, there is a family doctor involved in the death aid, and it is always so that the patient needs to be prepared for the procedure and other things; however, it must be at the point where the patient can clearly tell his or her will, that this is definitely his or her attitude and will.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u84	Thank you. The senator's answer. When it comes to suicide and the aid of suicide, when it comes to spiritually sick individuals, it is almost indistinguishable among ethics. It is also extremely difficult when it comes to accepting the patient's symptoms or genuine consent. The Dutch route is now spoken of, but it is basically the only case of euthanasia involving individuals with spiritual illness. It is extremely difficult to tell whether or not the illness would lead to death. It's a tough scene. I would suggest that as the matter goes further, the Senate would request information from those who work with spiritually sick people, that they are taken into consideration, and that we take it slowly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u85	A respectable president. Again, thank you. paritaprevir Una's Hildardóttir takes care of her worries and tips. I couldn't agree with her. That was one of the things I specifically asked about the Dutch way, if this was also true when people were dealing with mental health problems. Yeah, that's the Dutch way, if I get it right. I can totally say that there's a certain kind of fear. If we take this matter further, we need to look to it. Yet, the experience in the Netherlands is that these are in the vast majority of cancer patients who are greatly depressed and afflicted with pain and pain and realize that their disease is incurable. It's the biggest group that's come to the deathbed and asked for it and had it approved. But when it comes to spiritually sick people, I agree that they can't be relieved of their suffering or anything else, that they are, of course, a very delicate area and would have to be considered particularly if they were to come along.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u86	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The spirit of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, the advisor in this matter, for bringing this matter here for discussion. It is very important that we discuss this and that information be obtained. Although I feel that way, I'm not saying that I necessarily agree with the thought or idea that is behind me, i.e. to authorize death support in a manner that has been frequently referred to here in Iceland. I think that in an analysis such as the senator is talking about a big deal, and I would like to ask her if such a study was done, whether there is a difference between health system structure and health costs, whether there is a difference between people's interest in death relief after that; whether there is more interest in the users, you don't have to tell it in this respect, in health systems where patients' income companies are high, or if there is no social security system like to form in the United States. This discussion has been very loud and these rights. I have worked in its own system, and I know a number of examples that have discussed whether a patient or his caregivers were under pressure in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u87	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. I don't have any information as to whether the discussion varies from country to country based on the way the health system is built up. I think it's a very good suggestion and an encouraging welfare committee, who will likely review the matter, asking if there's something we would like to get together with this information. I think that would be a pretty good idea. Hv. A senator only comes on a subject of concern, of course, when it comes to such matters, whether a person is in some way pressured. I'm told that according to the Dutch system, two doctors have to write that a person is far led by his disease that he will lead to death and that a person is plagued and afflicted, and doctors have tried everything in their power to relieve them of suffering; that it should be the only case that would open up for this possibility. Of course, this is something that needs to be kept in mind and considered if we were to make a change here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u88	Mr. President. Back to the same or comparable. Now, in Iceland, the cost share of patients in health care is, compared with what happens in many other countries, is relatively low, i.e. We have a social security system that pays most of the service. In the countries around us, however, there is a wide system where, for example, people have to pay for nursing services, where they even pay for it fully. Is the senator concerned that in such systems there would be more pressure, to make up for people or people in the environment, to take advantage of such measures? I'd also like to ask the senator if it's not right to include in such a study or study of patient organizations to form a patient organization such as Alzheimer's, who has probably just changed their name, are now being hotly hot, other than a combination of brain failures, such as the Cancer Society, the association of lung patients, etc. patients with chronic severe symptoms. The symptoms, in our healthy state, may severely impair the quality of life, but the individual has survived with hard work - this is my quality of life and I want to keep them. There is a danger that someone else's values may be reflected in a person's choice.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u89	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. As for the cost of participation, I still agree that I think it's interesting to look at it in this context. It might even be a good basis for further discussion of our quality health systems and the cost of health care when considering ourselves with other countries. I can make it clear to you in my own way that although I'm proficient in this way, many questions do not go away. I can clearly explain to myself that I would never want the cost to affect such a decision in some way. That's why I think it's very important to look for the person to go through a clear process, which is marked by intense suffering and pain. Then it is mainly the patient's own experience, but it's not in a town, such as to form, if I understand it correctly, that there is a Dutch system. This controversy proposal is designed primarily for this information, how it is in other places, what the experience there is. But I know that the discussion, especially in the Netherlands, was the same way that the same viewpoint came up that was being raised here. That's totally normal. As far as the patient organisation is concerned, I think it's right to get their stand. I suppose it might appear in a review of the Congress resolution and encourage the committee to keep that in mind. Perhaps it is just as much as getting this conversation generally into the community that we transporters offer this proposal here. Of course, it takes a wide range of participation in that conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u90	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir for her chivalry on the Senate resolution of death aid. I think it's a little complicated, I'm just gonna say it right now, because it was immediately obvious to the speech, which was on a very loose side, that there are a lot of sides in this case. This is a delicate matter and thinking of many things. That's why I'd like to start by saying, at least that's a way to start the discussion by collecting information. Although I think about it well, I don't know what I'll feel later when all this information is combined. I can see why a lot of people can see the positive about getting help with death. But I also see quite a number of dangers. They come first to the position of disabled people and those with chronic illnesses who will not necessarily lead to death in the near future in conjunction with the society in which we live when there is death support. There are studies and online references to death aid that have led to the use of disabled persons in this way, for example. in various states of the United States. This is not necessarily because the people are so tormented or suffering so much. Rather, they relate to society and the standard of living and access to services offered to people. There may be a very dangerous mix there, i.e. If we do not have enough safety net for those who are disabled and chronically ill, this may be the way for them to get out of it. That's why I want to agree with it. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson said if treatment is not intended to be combined and whether there is a difference between the use of death aid by the health system. But I don't think it's enough to just do it by health systems, we have to do it more often. We must do so from social systems, living standards, and access to services, as this is also not a matter of measures taken by poor persons rather than by the earnings. I think we all agree on that, really. But this is just one of the things that need to be totally secure and on top of tables. That's why I'd like to suggest what. The welfare committee, which I expect to get the case on its own, that if the committee decides to proceed with the case, it will be extended as a health minister so that a portion of the information taken together is also the experience of disabled people and long - suffering. The experience can then be considered, e.g. In the Netherlands and other countries, especially in this respect, as well as in various countries of the United States. And I'd also like to say that it is important to have a vision and a view of those with chronic diseases. Although a person may be diagnosed with a chronic disease, not all have the same outlook or view, so it's a bit complicated. The variety of individuals is as varied as there are many of them. But I think it's important to try to get close to these groups somehow, because I think there's a lot to do with sickness how people get to know each other in the community. These are the points I wanted to attend in a talk because I think it is important that if you open the door to these issues, you bring us quite carefully to the point of calling out information. I want to reiterate that I'm concerned about this matter just because of the peripheral position of disabled people and long - suffering society as it is right here and now. In addition, she can be even worse. That is why this matter needs special attention.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u91	Mr. President. The person standing here is one of the couriers of this council arrangement. First, I'd like to thank a traveler and those who have spoken for their input into this matter that's not as simple as that. It needs to be examined from very many sides to identify the wisdom of doing or not doing things in such a way. The purpose of transporters is primarily to open the matter, i.e. To discuss this matter as most of its sides. Of course, the Parliamentary proposal is not perfect, and there are very many things that need to be expected. But I don't think that the payment of a council decree of this kind has become a basis for adjustment or the like, but that is what people want to start somewhere. This will take a long time. This will not be confirmed by the law of this council, and it probably will not be the next. The experience of other nations who have followed these paths is that it takes more time, and it needs to be discussed in societies about all of this. But I also think it's extremely important when we talk about such issues that we all make sure we're talking about the same thing, i.e. that this is about death aid. There have been some kingdoms that have gone that way. I feel that this is about the person and what advice he has over his own life and after an incident, in this case of death. This is based on the individual's making the decision, but at the same time it is set in great limits, i.e. This is where they're asking for help with dying, that's a major factor. Sadly, we know that individuals will then choose other ways that they may resort to despair or because of circumstances and may not be able to help them. That's a man's choice. There's been quite a mention of Holland here. It has also been mentioned, and I understand it very well and am concerned by myself, that opening up this sort of thing brings home a risk of some sort of abuse, and that people in some way are forced into following this path, which is the least said very dramatic and will not be taken again if it is gone. So this needs a lot of trouble. I'm not a medical expert in other countries, and I'm hardly in our own health system if it is, but death aid has been legalized in the Netherlands, Belgium, and Luxembourg, who are countries that I think have a good health system even though I'm not going to have any big words about it. I would like to quote a summary that was proposed as a youth organization in the Revolution, a remarkable name of rebellion, agreed to a seminar a few days ago. The point is, death is being done by a doctor, because he was talking about health care professionals, there is always a doctor who will help in case of that. The requirements in the Netherlands include, if I may read from the conclusion, that the physician: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. is convinced that the patient's request is voluntary and well - thought-on, 2 is convinced that the patient's suffering is ongoing (unhandable) and unbearable, and that there is a very significant need, ◯3. has informed the patient of his condition and of his prospects, 4 that the patient is convinced that there are no other reasonable options available. Then two doctors and all. We are not talking about a long - suffering person, a disabled person who in itself is not plagued by unbearable suffering, but the reality may not be fun or something like that, it is not enough to cause him to suffer grievous suffering where there is no healing or relief of suffering in sight. Only then can death aid be considered. This also mentioned brain - related individuals, e.g. alzheimer patients. The Dutch rules make it very clear that such a recommendation cannot be made, e.g. This type of death aid is determined by an alzheim patient so that he cannot make a deliberate decision on these matters. Hence, it is emphasized in the Dutch system that people, adults who are in the early stages of the alzheimer disease, talk to their family doctor about coming to this position within some year or when they may be, if the patient's wish is that something should be done. It's very important to keep it all in mind. It is also appropriate to remember that in the Netherlands, we are told that we have made the most informed of it, so the patient cannot ask a physician to help us in this way. A doctor can always refuse and dismiss the patient to another doctor. I just wanted to tie those things up. But with all the people here, I agree that it is essential that we open the discussion and take it in a balanced way and consult and seek information that is widely available so that we can prepare a careful discussion. It's not only a matter of meeting, of course, she also has to go out in the community. If such a route is to be followed, it must be handled in a reasonable way in society, that it is normal and reasonable, and that it does not work out right or wrong. But this is the self - determination of the person who is living under these circumstances that the reality has become unbearable because of the disease, through pain and no treatment or treatment. Then there is another complication, a palliative treatment. I also don't think that it's possible to ignore it, although I'm not going to be living with any claim in this context, studies suggest that people may be helped to die even if rules in the strict sense do not permit them to do so. There is also something we must acknowledge. To that end, it may be more prudent to keep such clear rules, strict rules, so that both the patients and the health professionals are self - concerned about what takes place when people are in this position. Thanks again for the discussion, and I hope we have a good conversation on this subject. It is, and it is not political. This is more of a matter of moral opinion and outlook on life or of life and death. So we need to be careful and try to make peace with ourselves about what will be done or not done in these areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u92	Mr. President. At the beginning of my talk, I want to thank you for this discussion. I think it's important. I think it's important and good for us and society to come up with a discussion like this. To help all of us make a personal decision, we hope that it will help some in the community and the people around us to deepen their understanding of what it really is and how it really is. I think we need to consider using the term. We have heard in the community that the concept of using it is highly ambiguous, and humans use a variety of terms for the phenomenon called Latin ◯euthanasias, or death with corpses or such. I don't know if dying aid is necessarily the best word. As a result of less - than - a - half - year - old work, I have found myself at a bedbed, where people have been seriously ill and terminally ill. In that sense, you have helped people through the years in such a process. Does that mean it's a death aid? I always looked at people as if I were like them. I've always thought of it as the role I would have in that situation. Let's think about it a little bit. I reiterate what I said before in answer to what I said. paritaprevir The comicry of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, comparing health systems with other systems. Of course, I haven't, and yet I've observed the scholarly debate a bit in this conversation, had any major professional investigation of this. It could simply be a very worthy assignment for government officials to learn exactly whether such comparisons were made and what he was then in. Because this is something that really matters. The attitude of health - care providers, such as speakers, is also of great importance, not just the doctors. Because even if there is one or two health care professionals who make a decision for some treatment for a while, let's call it a treatment, however, so that more people come to the self - determination, to do it themselves. It's not clear that there are other health care professionals, nurses, hospital staff, and others that are coming in, and then, in a sense, participants in something that they may not be necessarily in, and I need to be on board a little bit: Wait, is this health care, I'm not sure if I want to call it a medical service, which I need to take part in because I'm hired here? This is what all of us need to answer. This is important, and I want to commend the transporter for it, that it is important to answer these questions or to try to answer such questions before making any decisions. It's very important. Because once we have taken this step, it is highly unlikely, i.e. when and if we take steps to allow some kind of death aid, we'll walk back. It has not been true that men have gone that way. That is why it is also very important to consider conditions in other parts of the world. There has only been a period of suffering. I can tell a qualified health professional that my values do not apply to the suffering of others. It's just that way. That's why it can be very difficult for me if someone comes to me and says, "I have so much pain, and I have so much more to live on, won't you help me last mile? It's very hard for me to say yes. That's what the Stitican says at this time and then it happens. But I don't know. I'm always stuck with this question. I think all health care professionals will always be stuck with that doubt. So it is very important to consider these factors. What do we have, e.g. to do in such cases because I hear that transporters assume that this would not be necessary as a health care professional, since we have a person who believes he or she has the right to seek help with death and not a healthcare professional? How will we handle it, or will we deal with it? That's different. In the same way because they talked about it, or I mentioned it myself first, brain failures. That's one of the things we walk out in the treatment limit when we discuss them, because they are often discussed in hospitals, that there is no decision at all. What about the brain failure who talks to his former medical doctor in the early stages of illness and says that if this is the case, like this, I want it to be done? Can relatives change the decision later, or can they not? Or do we assume that in this case or in this type of disease, the decision is merely a stone? These are complicated questions. In this regard, I live in the privilege of thinking about them for decades and perhaps using many rings and many hook - ups in the pump. Once again, I thank the painters for their highly moderate efforts in these matters. I look forward to dealing with the matter on a welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u93	A respectable president. I'm involved in this a little because of our lack of information in the Pirates, but it's only possible to gather information on the whole other aspect of this matter that is extremely sensitive, i.e. euphoric aid. It has been very much considered that what we need to consider in the following article. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson. paritaprevir - now I have to look here, so I now remember the whole name, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, one of the Gunnsons here, who are a lot of people, and many - came in exactly on very interesting points and certain viewpoints that slightly contradict, possibly. On the one hand, that is what happened. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson said that it was a charity, and from another standpoint it could also be death aid. It's very complicated. For example, suppose a patient who refuses treatment is the line between these two points of view, whether to provide assistance or assistance, very thin, the angle of view is virtually the same. Just from that, and the experiences you've heard about, it's not unusual for you to have some clear rules in this regard. A summary of the information, comparing all these angles, is something very important to do, I think. This is an extremely delicate matter. What words may not be all about this, kindness, or death aid, but they do it because words have an effect. If one uses the word "death aid " in this process, the effect may be the result, while others, on the same page, is in use of charity. It is very difficult to tell who is really right. Instead of talking about it, it is better to talk about it and make it clear when we face the situation. From there, I'm coming as a co-mate to this council-student proposal. I look forward to having this discussion in the years ahead, indeed, because it's a delicate matter. So I'm sure it would be good to start with the safest areas, where, for example, you know... They were talking about cancer treatments, etc., where there's hardly any doubt. If the information we receive suggests that this is a good idea, we need to move forward with regard to these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-25-17.u94	A respectable president. Thank you. The members of the council are eager for the participation and discussion on this delicate subject. This discussion has raised speculations and speculations. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson covered that exact food, if e.g. A alzheimese patient would be able to say his will and all of this. Of course, these questions have arisen in all the countries that have gone through this discussion. That's exactly why I think it's important to go this way. Let's call for information. I want to thank you too. paritaprevir Steindór Valdímdar's Valdimarsson, who did well over the Dutch route, if I let myself call it that. But we have not only been given a presentation but also studied that subject. I'd like to mention, however, because this is, of course, such a big deal, that we have our sources who have come to us with the intention of changing legislation. I have studied them and read them, but I have also read articles by doctors in the medical journal and elsewhere, articles by ethicists and other things. At times, I feel that information and evidence are even questioned. That's why I think it's so important that we hide this from the Minister so that we have public evidence that came from the government in these countries. I don't know what that information will look like or what we'll read out of it. I can say it for my part that I've been pretty much in favor of taking a look at a change in law, but I also say that I'm going to have the right to change my mind when this information comes out. This is such a matter that I think we need to consider it very carefully. The little I've seen in this, I've liked the Dutch way quite well and felt as if they had taken up a discussion on key factors and had framed them in a rather specific way. They told us, for example. the discussion of whether to allow paediatric support for death should now be given. It just happened to my heart. I said, "Oh, my God, where have we gone? Of course, such questions arise. Moral questions always guide us to something else. I want to thank you very much for this discussion. I'd like to thank you for the tips that came through here, too. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir and Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son on the subject and what it is exactly as the welfare committee should review. We know this in certain evidence that we have received, for example. There are different rules in the United States. You've seen it in movies, and you know it's true that, in some cases, you get a bag of some kind of pills that people can take when they want it to happen. It's, for example. A way that scares me a lot. How do we know if the person is under some pressure or if he is the exact one who eventually receives these tablets? I think it's such a matter that it needs to be carefully checked and viewed from all sides. I thank you for this balanced and well discussed. I'd also like to thank my clients very much for this proposal. I think it's very important that we come from most of the council groups. Just as we have discussed, this is not a political matter, much less a group of political issues. These are just strong, moral questions that we face. And maybe before we start answering these questions, we'll find these evidence. I wish. The well - being committee of these jobs, hoping that we will succeed in obtaining information sooner than later, which may result in a meaningful and good conversation. But I also agree that this is not a matter that will pass through in a short period of time. This will take time. I wish that the debate at the council Hall will be eased as it has been here today, and I also hope that there will be a discussion in the community again, but it will also be on those preconceived lines. Let's see what I think is clearly involved, but obviously there are also many negative and complicated factors. Then I thank you for this discussion.
