ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u1	The president would like to inform us that at the meeting of the prime committee yesterday, on Monday, June 4, it was adopted to replace the General Work Programme from today on, and it will be clear in the days ahead how many days we will have to add to the council before the council can complete the work. The president also wants to inform you that this meeting will be interrupted at the hour. 11,15, or when unsubstantiated inquiries have been received for a time for conversation and meeting between the leaders and members of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u2	Furthermore, the president makes it clear that the non-prepared question period can last longer than a political body assumes that up to six queries will be discovered.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u3	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Health, Transport, Industrial and Development Ministers and Transport and Regional Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u4	Mr. President. The newly diagnosed assessment of the business of the University of Switzerland with competitiveness shows that Iceland is down by four, and we are now in number 24. Denmark, Norway and Sweden are way above us, i.e. of 6,◯9. Sit down. A competitiveness describes an environment that the state allows for an enterprise to create valuables in a sustainable way. There is a strong connection between competitiveness and biography. In an economic performance, Iceland falls to an entire 18 seats. We're at 57th. This is the largest reduction in economic performance in Western Europe. Part of this fall is for the blessed crown. Her real life has never been so strong. Official efficiency also declines between the years and falls Iceland from 8 to 16. Business efficiency, on the other hand, only slightly recovers, while infrastructure replaces Iceland in 17th. Iceland has been in 49, 1956. of 63 countries where transport from the country is a threat to the economy. Interestingly, the part the Icelandic executives consider to be the least desirable in Iceland is the factor called government ability. It scores at the bottom. So I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister what action it will take so that this development can be reversed. How will it strengthen the infrastructure, efficiency, and production here and respond to one of the largest drafts of Icelandic society?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u5	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for calling attention to this investigation or a test, which we can so call. I think there's a lot we can learn from. First, I think - and that's the government to do - that we need a community to focus on innovation, research, and evolution. Part of it is my decision to appoint a committee that is to give a summary of how we will react to the fourth industrial revolution, in order to form in terms of how it will affect productions in different articles - it is quite clear that they will be different - how it will affect the labour market and the rights of the employee, how it will affect the legislation and the rules we need to revise. I think it's extremely important that governments make significant decisions about this. And a part of it is also going to shape innovation policy for Iceland, which has been decided to do under the leadership of tourism, industrial and innovation ministers, including all classes. Part of it is to promote university degrees. Part of it is to look for ways to eliminate roofs on reimbursement for research and development. I believe all of that will result in increased competitiveness. Hv. A senator refers to the currency. You can be sure that Iceland's economy is characterized by a lot of fluctuations. For one thing, the last administration ordered a review of a financial policy system. This committee will produce its current suggestions on how to strengthen the framework of money policy. When we look at how we can run the community, of course, we are looking to the entrances and the tax returns as fast as possible. A senator mentioned. We are looking for ways to make peace in a job market, as well as how we can create a stronger arrangement for money policy. In short, I think there's a lot we can do better in Iceland when it comes to, for example. The structure of a job life to be more varied. We are already strengthening wood, and this can be seen in a financial program in which we are just watching the strength of wood. We need to look to the future and do so in different ways. There we need to take the lead in dealing with the technological changes that will obviously take place. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u6	Mr. President. Exactly about the financial program, because the infrastructure is one of the factors that draws us down, we see that the National Hospital has believed that it lacks another 87 billion. Industrial organizations point out that even the money in a financial program is not enough to reach the ten - year average we have set for the seminary. College, first the highest. He is named by the prime minister, only half of what is promised in the government covenant. And here I have repeatedly reminded you that Iceland's Institute of Generosity calls this blessed plan a prescription for poverty and misery. And knowing that, more than a portion of the legal committee is now putting aside this financial program, up to 5,000 billion - there is no change. The role of the General Assembly as the Watch Tower Society of these Ministers has never been so clear. They don't even move $1 billion. It's a complete spectacle, all this work of the budget board. They've met a number of visitors and received 71 references, no change. How is it that no one seems to see this injection in the wood except the Ministers? [[The president calls.]] And there's a dollar. The crown has been the largest of Icelandic society's drafts, has never been as strong as it is today, and it has always fallen. In such a situation, it is unlikely to expect an unfathomable ordeal, which is the prerequisite for this strategy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u7	Mr. President. If only I'd stick to my previous question. I disagree with what he says in a subsequent inquiry that the financial program does not reflect an introduction. It is best to see how strongly the situation with regard to whether the application is too great or too low. Of course, the building up of wood is being done, and school is especially seen; after years of cuts and static, the program is finally being made up and moved forward in that field. It's being moved in the face of transportation, and changes in the innovation system that I think are important to us. I said before, and I want to reiterate: If we're discussing the competitiveness of our country, I think it's the most important thing that jobs are built up by a greater variety of support than the history shows. The same can be said if we want to learn from history, when it comes to money policy, not merely pointing to the currency, but to look to it in practical terms whether we as society and governments at any given time have followed the rules we have set when it comes to managing money policy. [[The president calls.]] I think history shows that it hasn't always been.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u8	A respectable president. On the Horni, a little six - year - old boy named Ægir has been living. He has chronic muscle degeneration. There are drugs, he is one of few, and the only one in this country that needs this medicine that answers his disease and helps him to live longer in a normal way like a little boy. However, because of the high cost of the drug, the medical committee of the Land Hospital denies the drug to the family, the little boy refuses the drug for the second time. I'm going to show you a picture of this little boy. [[Senator shows the photograph.]] He's six years old, he's still running around, this drug is causing him to run around. No one's thinking that if he doesn't have the medicine, he'll be in a wheelchair very soon, because at the age of 7, a mutation is thought to occur, as he really penetrates in full force. This little boy goes to a wheelchair, he puts on a respirator and all that goes with it. It likely takes six or eight people on the government side to think about him 24 hours a day. The cost is not predicted. So I'd like to ask the highest. Healthcare Minister: You're ready for that, chief. Health Minister, fighting for the interests of this little boy, and using you to get the medication he needs so that he can live longer and better as a little boy?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u9	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator of this inquiry. There's been an incident that took place at the time. Of course, the case of a senator is that it affects everyone. However, at this point the Committee of the Land Hospital is the one who decides medicine. It is the role and task of the expert on the case, in cooperation with the National Hospital Drug Committee, to determine that treatment. Under no circumstances can a minister make any decision at any given time to take a decision on medication. I think everybody's clear. The decision is complex, but it is in the hands of experts and best - known people and the most clear basis for making a decision in this matter. It is so in this case as in other comparable cases that it is up to medical specialists and pharmaceutical specialists to reach a decision on the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u10	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of health. I was not asking her if she was going to introduce herself to a drug committee. I was asking if she was ready to apply herself to the case as a health minister. The fact is, it's perfectly clear, I thought it had been clear enough earlier, that he'd respond to the medication, it's found that this little boy is responding to the drug. But the fact is, it takes 50 million to give him this medicine. It's too much. But it wasn't too much to lower the income tax by 1% for 14 billion, not too much to lower the bank tax for 7 billion, and now it is not too much to call for a reduction in hunting costs of less than 3 billion. But it is too much to help this little boy because it costs too much money. V.E.G. Secretary of health. Are you willing to use your position as a health minister to help this little boy? That's the question.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u11	A respectable president. My answer's already done. There are professional grounds that are fundamental, both for the specialist in this particular case, to do and for others similar, and then for the National Hospital Committee's Committee on the basis available; to determine the treatment of medicinal products in each case. It is not a minister, not under any circumstances, to intervene in such decisions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u12	Mr. President. I want to direct a question to the highest. Prime Minister in connection with the bill that is now before the council for a reduction in hunting costs. That in itself would be of no consideration if we were to be dealing with a real reduction in fishing costs to small or lesser ones that really need it, but it is not. As we can see on the front page of the newscast today, half of the reduction goes to ten of the largest projects in the country. You can add that if we go up to 20 of the largest construction companies in the country, they get over 80% of the reduction. At the end of the council, it's hard to get a bill like this running right through the council, they're gonna run it down our throats, and we're gonna have to swallow it up whether we like it or not. That's why I'd like to direct two questions to the highest level. Minister, at least to start with: A minister who plays the lead in Icelandic and Icelandic politics is promoting changes in the bill that can lead to more reconciliation in the last days, in the fact that we're extending the authority to take hunting fees and, on the other hand, trying to focus directly on the small companies through the character discount? Can we find ways to settle this matter so that we can talk about a new arrangement in the fall? By doing this, I felt that she would be willing to do something better and that I trusted her to have the way here at the council. Second, I'd like to ask the highest. A minister, especially in the light of the fact that the sea route is an enormously important industry for us, great production, and value development: Will it use its power to reimburse an anti - political agreement commission so that we try to achieve real reconciliation through the water? Last year such a committee was active, there was a disagreement within the Committee, but there was a guide in my opinion that can continue and try to achieve the peace and compromise that we need to achieve over the seabed for a short time. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u13	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this. Now it has been said in my opinion that I fully understand the criticism of the government body at the Hall of Congress to receive a bill that includes some fundamental changes in the calculation of hunting fees with such stigma notice. I appreciate the criticism that it is important that we discuss this matter with other matters at the council, and therefore I have called with the officers now so that we can discuss the Senate ahead, including this matter. Hadn't I'd like to say, though, that I was expecting a flat surface to achieve more solidarity over the goals shown in the bill, i.e. The goal of moving the calculations of fishing costs reaches real times. I know why. A senator, who served as a sea emissary and agricultural minister, spoke that it would not be good for us to consider fishing fees at the age of three. That's the system we've had, including. Because new numbers have not been available. Of course, if we appreciate that we have a new foundation, we need to take a political discussion as to whether it is not reasonable to focus the cost on new delivery numbers, i.e. if we agree that hunting costs are meant to be left-over. For me, this is the first thing about these two things, i.e. that the fishing charges should be off-limits, and I say yes to that question, and that it is normal to calculate the calculation of the most recent calculations we have. So we know. A senator himself arranged for work to be done on the occasion, showing that it has made a significant improvement in its development, and we have the prospect of seeing until the difficult time there. On the other hand, in view of the way the matter is presented, I am prepared to review it at the hands of the prefects and also at the job committee, whether it is possible to make more peace with the court treatment because I am completely aware that such changes require discussion. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u14	Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. There is a difference between us. I agree that the fishing rate needs to be partially extended, but not entirely. I don't look at it as a tax. I watch it as a means of access to the resource. The project should be paid for the raw materials shared with the nation's resource, dot. It's not tax, it's a means of getting caught from the nation's common resource. It cannot be unplugged solely. Second, this report was written on less ahead. You see, that chorus was so full that it was so hard for a year. That happened in the sailors'strike. The government was to bring over half a billion to settle the pay. Then it was to extend the debt of an enterprise because it was so difficult for them to pay off. Therefore, the Deloitte report was launched. And what will we see? Yes, the recovery has only gotten worse. The EBITDA has gone from 22% to 16%. But is it bad? Not at all. If we compare the fishing process with every other industry - and I look at a traveling minister who should be deeply concerned about the situation in tourism - we see that the sea route is in the ground well fired, well - offed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There is no reason to go into this fall in hunting fees, which are most concerned with lowering their fishing costs, the largest of the country's fishing projects. [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm worried about.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u15	President wants to ask why. Senators, watch out for deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u16	Mr. President. I'd like to say, too, because of what. A senator specifically mentioned my position of development, that it is, of course, that I and my band have long been concerned that the seawater euphemism is not good for the article, i.e. that overcomplication in fishing roads is not good for this article or for the settlements of this country. Therefore, the magnitude of the discount for the small and medium-sized enterprise was increased in the bill. Hv. A senator mentioned in his previous inquiry a potential for some sort of reconciliation committee. Well, I'm sure we've been arguing over the water for as long as we did. A senator has been here for years, which has been together for years. But we're at work, and I hope that every category at the General Assembly is completely interested in that work - and it was mentioned here yesterday in kitchen days - on whether or not we could work together on a constitution of resources, if we can get together on that. People can believe that we're trying to make a breakthrough in the Constitution, but I'm made of it that I'd rather have some success in my work than everything or nothing, as I'm afraid there's too much political tendency today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u17	V.E.G. President. I would like to direct my words to the transport and local minister of transportation in the southern part of the West. In 2006, people were ready to take up transport operations in the Gufudal Army through the Forest of Chets, but then they are 12 years away. In fact, the story is a sad story about how that matter has developed and where it is true today. It's too long to go through it all, and you have really found no way of supporting the situation. I have a question for the Minister if the Minister had thought of some action to help with this matter. Then I'm thinking about the Breafafafjörður Beft, two trips per day in the summer during the week, and one trip in the winter, whether the Minister thought he'd come up to talk to parties and give support to increase the number of trips. Now it is clear that transport to the Western island is actually in a better condition than transportation in the southern part of the West. It has been given well in connection with ferrying there. Will the minister do something about this matter? Does the minister intend to contribute to the growth of travel through the British Biodiversity Transporter Björg?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u18	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir In the south of the West, Páll Jónsson won the transport inquiry. I don't know if I agree with that, or the people of the Western Islands, that transportation there is better than in any other place in the country. Of course, Western ears depend entirely on ferrying or flying, they cannot drive one road, not even a bad road, as is the case in the southern part of the West. But I can agree with that with what. A senator with a history of administration and preparation for necessary roads, to improve both the public and the companies in the region, is a sad story and has taken far too long. Now it is in a particular process, such as cot. A senator came in just a bit. But his question was, How can we come to terms with this situation more clearly? I know that the road's done it this winter. Under such circumstances, men have tried to step up with increased activity on the road. In fact, it was when Baldur was taken in a scrap and was late all too long because of the surprise cars. The idea of sailing more often to ensure transportation has come to the fore and will be considered. I don't think it's a bad idea. Transport is in a way that requires demand and availability of goods, people for service. There is something that we need to examine at any given time. I'll take this inquiry why. A senator for me to think more of.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u19	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for this answer. I hope he's taking a look. I was not necessarily going to compare transportation to the Western Islands and south of the West. Rather, I concluded that transport safety has often been very low during the winter of southern Western Europe. I've heard that people have been talking about how people with heavy transport, fish transport, salmon fires, those in the West can meet the flea boat's plans over the Bayground so they can take advantage of their trips. Since this has not been the case, I raise this question to the minister as well as to whether the matter should not be expected to meet that fact. Heavy transport is one of the worst in the forest of Chets and the Gufudal Orchestra. It's crystal clear, like natural every other way. [[The president calls.]] Only this point would help.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u20	A respectable president. It is true that heavy transport is less efficient than most others, both freight transport and transport. This is exactly what we have been seeing over the years, and especially after this difficult winter; unsurpassed damage to the roads that were not anticipated in the Vega assessment, both last year and winter. It amazed me in my conversations here yesterday. Councilmen, including prominent members, were instigating the government's intention to cope with their unforeseen situation and to place extra money on the roads to improve. It is our purpose to respond as members of the administration board. This tip why. The senator, who may have to do so in another way in southern Western Europe because of increased transport, is likely to be considering how we might react to the unpredictable problems that have come up in the past by setting up extra funding for the rest of the roads around the country. She surprised me to learn the subject that came from what included. Group members last night.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u21	A respectable president. In the past year, I've asked both the highest ones. Prime Minister and secretary of finance to the Ministers' Code and whether it was not a violation of the protocol to hide a report on the U.S. taxes before the 2016 election. The first inquiry at the 146th Council was directed to the then prime minister, Bjarni son of Benediktsson, and was not answered, despite the fact that a minister had been given many months to do so and the questions were not complicated. It was not until the present prime minister had the opportunity to say that answers finally began to come. In that answer came even. it is up to each minister to interpret and apply ethical principles. A recent comment by the secretary of finance revealed an interesting interpretation that I would like to ask the highest. Prime Minister in. The question was, Was the tax report subject to public interest or failure? When did the evaluation take place? The answer, by permission of the president, was: A report on the property of the Icelanders in a foreign land was carried out by the initiative of Bjarni son of Benediktsson, finance and economic ministers. Thus, its release was entirely without any external notes or assessments of whether they were relevant according to ethical standards. Honorable President and Supreme Court. Prime Minister. That answer did stop me for a long time. Is it really so that if a ministerial servant's initiative is involved, there is no need to comply with a moral code? I kindly ask for a clear answer to this question, an answer that starts with either a yes or a no before an explanation begins: Yes, a minister does not have to follow the principles of initiatives, or: No, a minister must follow the principles of initiative.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u22	Mr. President. First, I'd like to state that I haven't read that answer as well as anything. A senator reports from the highest level. Financial and economic ministers. So I can't make a special assessment of that answer as a why. A senator points in. [[Up front.]] Since there's such a lot of queries in here, there's quite a lot of answers, like a cool. A senator is aware of, and it is difficult to throw off all of them. With regard to the code of ethics, you are absolutely right. A member of the Parliament, in accordance with local ethical guidelines, assumes that each minister should consider how to apply himself when it comes to matters of ethics. Then, as shown in my conversation with the reason. The senator and my answer to his inquiry are invited and counseled by the Ministry of Prime Ministers for all the ministers who wish to seek it. In fact, these cases have been published publicly in this winter, so that there is trouble. Congressmen and the general public have a good idea about this. So I'm taking a small exit here: under proposals, we can say, foreign parties I don't necessarily think it's good to publish such cases, because it can make the minister less advise about when to use ethics; if they expect to ask and answer them all to be published. That is one of the reasons we need to take sides in reviewing moral principles. But don't ethics always apply? asks why. Senator. Of course, the code of ethics applies to all jobs at the highest level. Minister as well as any. Parliamentaries, whatever they are supposed to be. But it is so, and it is absolutely right, as the dog. A senator left his answer at the highest. Secretary of finance, the report being carried out on the initiative of the Minister, and it is likely to refer to it in the answer I have not read. But the code of ethics applies to all the duties of the Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u23	A respectable president. This is the answer I expected, fortunately. Of course, a minister's moral code is particularly effective in matters where a minister uses the authority of his own initiative. There especially needs to be a problem. Ministers' ethics are very clear on this and in the 7th. par., of responsibility, says, by permission of the President: The secretary shall cooperate if his work is considered on the terms of the General or its surveillance agencies and when members of the Parliament request information on the basis of a Senate law. V.E.G. Prime Minister. What kind of cooperation is it to avoid answering questions for a long time, and when answers finally come, they are simply false? What responsibility will be the highest. Prime Minister accepts such answers from a minister in her government? What kind of responsibility will the minister of finance shoulder? Or is this just another example of Icelandic political responsibility? A minister lies and gets away with it?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u24	Mr. President. I'd like to make it clear that I don't agree to the highest level. Secretary of finance told me a lie, so I'm not going to agree. However, ministers are responsible for their answers here at Congress. That's our board of command. We are not multiorganized government, and prime minister does not observe the answers of individual ministers. They've been a lot, as I said in my first answer, with a lot of queries. I'll make sure of what. A senator to the highest. Ministers are all as one attempt to comply with their responsibilities, i.e. to provide the Council with the best information available at any given time. However, I think that in view of the great pressures that have been presented here, there is a special subject for us not to give it the extra power to work on the inquiry of members of the council. Of course, this may mean an increase in the number of people. There's a chance that I owe, that I think, well. A senator answers a question about the work of members of the Parliament on various committees. It has indeed been a challenge, so I say it here in the hall, digging it up ten years in the past. [[The president calls.]] It's been taking a lot of time. I hope so. A senator is understanding as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u25	A respectable president. Then I'll hammer the iron while it's hot. I'm going back west to the Gufu Valley. Pat position is in the construction of the Vestísavík around the Gufudal Squadron. We are talking about a 20 - year - old history of troublemaking in a case that has not returned to normal because of the failure of the administrations, which is particularly careful to step to the ground in the matter, so gently floating around in an empty void. This has simply been done against normal transport repairs in the south of the West. Twenty years contains five ideal period of rural society, and this period approaches the growth of moss on stone. There is no need to reenact the urgent need to engage in road repairs in the affected area. There has already been an unacceptable delay in the case that has gone around for so long. Meanwhile, the inhabitants of southern Western Europe try to maintain modern living habits and ways. As in other parts of the country, transport is the key to it. If transport cannot be fixed in the Gufudal Army, the normal progress of the local job life is being slowed down. People and businesses in the region have taken the initiative to build up jobs that further lay the groundwork for society's sustainability and then the system seizes its throat. That's why I want to ask the highest. Transport and Regional Minister: Especially the highest. A minister imagines a solution to this seeming knot? If so, hopefully, when can we expect the roads to begin in this area?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u26	A respectable president. Thank you for the inquiry. It is true that the process of this road around the South, especially through the Forest, has been a tragic history of the administration for far too long, and with the wind. Foreman. So in this case it is that in April, if I recall correctly, the Rukhobapps department was adopted to suggest a major planning for research at the Organization. I know that the Organization has overstepped that proposal and assumed that a local government will soon advertise it, probably at its first meetings now after the end of the rural election, which may also have been involved. As noted, a meeting was conducted with Norwegian advisers, Multiconsult, who are going to provide an independent assessment of options for the company's request. It should work together with a comment deadline because of advertisements on the main structure. As a result, it is estimated that counseling will be due this summer. Based on this, the confirmation of the Agency's main organizational change after the advertisement and the deadline for a fall, November, could be provided that it will be published in June, later if it is delayed. So a first application could be applied in November 2018. If we assume, for the sake of history, that this will be charged, we can assume that the decision of the decision by the Commission could be taken into account in July 2019, taking into account a judicial hearing and a legal deadline, which actually means that we could start in the summer of 2019. The duration of action is estimated to be three years, all studies have been completed, there are some measurements left in Chets Forest. The design of a bridge in The Crimson is far away, other bridges are not in the design. [[The president calls.]] This may result in an end to work in the fall of 2022 according to this plan for all normal deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u27	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers, hoping that the words he says here will last. I have full faith that he is still working on this matter. But there is a general agreement on this road, and it doesn't need any Norwegian party to do so; it's okay, though. A recent survey of Gallup among the Westerners was conducted. We've got less than 90% on this route. The uncertainty of the matter has to be eliminated. Ideas of this road have long since grown up, and the Westerners have grown old waiting for it. But I hope this thing gets better and the Westerners sees it's about to happen. That's what matters. I know it'll take some time. But I thank you very much. Minister for the answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u28	A respectable president. Thank you. A captain for bringing this up at the council. It's important to keep this running, keep pressure on the case. I agree with what. A senator that if transport cannot be managed, it has been this way - the natural development of employment and the ability of inhabitants to move to and between places. The answer I gave here is according to the best knowledge about the deadline, so this could happen exactly as I described it. I really hope that this can be so that these normal deadlines, the current process, go through the management system in a natural way, and then we can go on in the process sooner than later. Then, within three years of its beginning, we imagine an end to this work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u29	The president would like to inform us about the conference that at the end of the votes of 2 to 7th and then the 11th session will be considered, the increase in Kingdom funds will be increased, and will be the highest. The minister will recommend this, but after that, there will be a meeting period for meetings.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u30	A respectable president. I support this adjustment proposal, but the committee has received an indication to review expressions so that I wish the case to be discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u31	A respectable president. I recommend here for bill to correct the changing of state funds laws, No. 88/1991, with subsequent changes. The bill is a green card for treaties with foreign countries. As shown by a bill report on the bill, it is relevant to negotiate with foreign countries when it is negotiated with mutual residence permits and the right to temporary jobs in the country and how it is done in terms of payment on land. In short, the Icelandic government has discussed mutual agreements with Japan in this area. This is a contract that's tried to pay in this country. Comments have been made by our interviewers that it would be unacceptable for payment to be granted on the basis of the agreement. This is a view that we have a clear understanding of, and the agreements on this point are fully mutual. Hence, the bill is here for the 32nd number 1. 14th par. The law will add new proverbs, as follows: However, at the discretion of the Member State, it should not be paid. 66. g. Is God a God of Peace? No. 80/2016, as per this article's agreement, is valid, and this is a requirement for annuity of payment. It's a relatively simple case, a respectable president. I don't think there's any reason to track all the material in this report. I believe that there is a detailed explanation for this matter. This has to do with mutual rights and responsibilities that we seek to negotiate with Japan. I'd like to thank you for getting it on schedule, hoping they'll get a quick payment, a simple one, at this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u32	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a review of criminal treatment laws, with subsequent changes, of appeal to the National Court after the hearings have been repeated. This is a modification proposal from a universal and educational committee, instead of the word 'Rest Court' at 2 mgr. 189th par. and 3 mg. 191st par. The law comes, the court of the land. The following article will explain why this is being recommended. It's a slight correction, sort of a miscalculation that happened there, i.e. It simply replaces the Supreme Court in this specific article.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u33	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize the waning of the Council of Mention, No. 130/2016, with subsequent changes. Transporters are more of a share of the Economic and Business Committee. According to one report, last January the government decided to agree with the labour market staff to appoint a team on the affairs of the Council of Elders. The prime minister appointed the work force on 23 January 2018 and was to compare the arrangements made by elected representatives, judges and officials in neighboring countries, and suggest that the changing of the labour decision would be considered more likely to be an arrangement for society's future reconciliation on the decision of those in position for which their status is not granted. At that time, the task force was to consider the decision of a panel, assess the salary and the remuneration of the classes for which freedom of the contract is enjoyed, and the pay policy agreed on with the majority of employees, and, after the events, offer suggestions for improvement. The staff returned a report in February. The report quotes the report and key results of the work group as well as the suggestions given by the staff to be accepted, i.e. Substitution arrangements. The Ministry of Economics is now working on a bill that stipulates the decision of those who are now under the decision of the CREEP Council to be conducted in the light of the proposals made by the staff on the matters of the Council. This bill aims to change the arrangement of the remuneration of those who are now under the decision of the Council of Elders, as it were. track No. 130/2016. It is assumed that the bill will be submitted to the Council in the autumn after consultation with those whose prime concern is the bill. The appointment period for the current voter's steward expires on June 30. In view of this, a bill is being prepared to change the financial scale as previously stated. With 1st. provision for temporary use in this existing bill is suggested in spite of regulations 1k. for the breakdown of a law of advice, all who fall under the jurisdiction of the Cathedral, when this law comes to a valid value, according to the law of No. 47/2006 and laws 130/2016 until the individual has made a new salary and remuneration decision. As a result, this year's pay for those who are subject to the decision of a court council will not be reviewed. As shown on page 19. 11 In a report by Prime Minister Prime Minister, there is a remuneration in the group that is now under the decision holder's authority very different. For example, local courts have received a 35% rise, but ministers 64% from the time the labour market Framework Convention was made in late 2015. In the event of prolonged exposure, e.g. However, there is quite a different picture in the 2006 Board's work period, during which time the pay of these parties has developed in a similar way. In addition, no further revision will be given in 2018, i.e. The pay will remain unchanged from the last decision of the Council to the end of 2018, the pay development of the pitty group will be on average at the threshold set up by the labour market body from 27 October 2015. The framework period has not yet been established. Therefore, it is not possible to tell exactly how much change will be made during the period, but the above report shows that although the pay sheet is now increasing by 36% between November 2013 and January 2018. Between 2013 and 2016, the average annual pay of state workers increased, i.e. regular pay, about 31% and in 2017 the staff estimated that the remuneration rate of state workers would have increased by 7%. However, if new laws have not come true for May 1, 2019, it is suggested that pay be increased from that date on to that day, based on the relative increase in regular staff members of the next calendar year. According to the Board of Elders, dozens of cases from the heads of the public institutions that hear under law of 39 C.E. will be held. a Code on the rights and duties of the government, No. 70/1996, checkout for the board. In particular, there are issues below 5 mg. Its law, No. 130/2016, which says that cases taken in the treatment of the validation of the law should be completed in accordance with the earlier laws. In view of the time of the trial by the Council of Elders, it may be expected that the Council will not be completed unless only a few of the cases sent to the council for current legislation on July 1 as the time of the council expires. With 2 mg. provision, therefore, is proposed to address the relevant issues of Article 39. a Act on the rights and duties of the servants of the State, but have a case for the treatment of the Council of Elders, it will be completed on the basis of that law. As a consequence, a decision will not be made to the person's salary as expected in 5 mg. provision for temporary action in law No. 130/2016. A respectable president. I present this bill for discussion, and I request that this discussion be completed then referred to a second issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u34	A respectable president. Two things, to be absolutely certain, that it is not the pay number and the pay number of public employees involved in managing the increase, and to be absolutely sure that it is not the understanding that this is the point, but some average increase, etc. ... butnotthewrongcount. On the other hand, I just want to discuss this change, what it means. Of course, I have been concerned about decisions and recommendations in the recent years, and I wholeheartedly agree that some adjustments are needed there. They have not been in their decisions to follow general pay development and, as mentioned earlier, to the likes of the above talks. But now, by this change, the Council is actually making a decision again to the members of Congress, for we have this decision to determine how Congress's salary will change if nothing else has been done on May 1, 2019. Then the Senate pay will change as we say here. I don't know if it's a comeback or not. This is a matter of responsibility, definitely. But this is also a problem of temptation that has led the Council to certain bad streets before, e.g. ... toputiton their very own pensions. So I would like to discuss this problem. We have these steps again, at least in the other direction, that the Council makes decisions on his own salary.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u35	Mr. President. I'm not sure I can agree with what. paritaprevir As for Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, he says that with this we, sitting in a chamber, parted back in our wages. It is now that the law of dressers is taken out of force, and this is made in the confidence that we will be treated with a bill that holds out the salary of their professions, as it were, to be called, judges and elected representatives, to be determined in the future, and it will be done in a clear way as you can imagine, based on the joint proposals made by a body of the workforce. The rule is relatively simple. As says: "A relative change in the average average of regular remuneration of citizens in Iceland's Habitat Office for the next calendar year should be based on a relative change in the average of regular pay. This should be done every 1st of April, and it will be fixed by law that the salary, pay, will be changed every 1st of May. So there is always a question of how the pay of these persons will change.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u36	A respectable president. First of all, we haven't had the bill and we've done it, that's never there, not necessarily. The other thing is, like, what's wrong. A senator says it's going to be in the law. Then we'll be stuck in the law of a cent. The crown has to become a law of law every year by Generalis decision, which is recommended to be in accordance with some economics from Iceland's Habitat, some averages, etc. It can certainly be blessed, but protected, for general pay development, in terms of advice on dress and grooming, not exactly the same? When we come to decide and change the law of the council, councilmen, Minister, President of Iceland, Judge, etc., we're here to accept a bill that changes that dollar number. As soon as we move into plus or minus from the numbers given to the Haf living room, we're making decisions about our own salary. This may be a technical thing, but after all, we have to vote for a change in the dollar number within the house for our own salary. I don't see the difference, as is the case with this relative change, which is supposed to occur in terms of the average pay of public employees and such, and the general pay development that was at the board. There, it was not possible to maintain the criteria for overall pay development. I allow myself to be skeptical about the fact that this arrangement really applies forever to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u37	Mr. President. I agree with what. A senator about one thing. It has nothing to do with it forever. This is so until the Council decides otherwise, because the Law is completely clear. I'm sure we're not thinking about the same procedure, I realize that, but I think there's some misunderstanding in my head. Senator. Every year nothing will come together every year and vote for a change in pay. The pay of senators and Ministers, judges, etc. will be firmly determined by the law. should be in accordance with the calculation of the Haustabours in an average pay sheet as it is in public staff. The only way I can see, for us here in this council hall, to have a direct and decisive effect on our own salary is, of course, we're making some crazy decision, mad decision, to raise the pay of state workers by 30, 40, 50, 60, 70%. Of course, we would benefit, not for long, because everything would go all over here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u38	Mr. President. In many ways, it is good, and especially, that we are finally making decisions about the salary of members of Congress into average increases in public employees. It is not some phenomenon, then, that can make illegal decisions, based on its own indicator, or even reasoning on it, as if it were to be done according to law. That's good. I'm glad you're setting up a bargain. It is good to move this into general pay development and look to the last year, which means that those in charge, such as the advice on dressers, would not go up in pay unless the people of the country did so. That's good. What I'm going to want to look at, and I want to pray. A senator and a traveling overseer, president of the Economic and Business Committee, to shed light on us, is why this average regular salary of a state worker is chosen. The old advice on dressers only speaks of general pay development; everyone is under it. If the senator can inform us about this, why is it determined to choose government employees? At the same time, I ask, "What exactly does this mean? " Is Minister Making Decisions? On July 1st, what happens next? Could a minister be raising a lot of groups until January 1, 2019? What's this Minister's warrant, so we'll figure it out, to raise our salary as a adviceer otherwise would've done?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u39	Mr. President. When I quote that the average index for regular remuneration is used, it is done on the basis of existing proposals and general agreements have been established. Of course, the other standard may be all right. The main thing, and there I think I am and what. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson agrees, that we must not create that system here at the pay date of the highest official and elected representative who will be responsible for the complete recovery of these groups from the standard of what happens. I think we're supposed to follow along, but we're not supposed to go first. I think it's extremely important, too, because otherwise, as we've experienced over the last few years, there's such a danger of suspicion toward elected agents. I don't think we should be promoting it. It also matters that we make sure that judges maintain their financial independence and are completely independent of the whims of their own time, e.g. Here at the Senate Hall. For example, at the Council of Churches, it may have been evidence that I'm not entirely convinced of it - in order to represent a body of cowards by the legal process and even to reduce the pay of others other than those who sit in the chamber. That's not a good thing to do. I think that the main thing about this is that we secure and combine it here in the Hall of Congress that we make a decision for the staff who hear under the advice that there is an agreement and that there is a transparency, and people know what they're doing. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u40	Mr. President. Then it is about the authority of a minister to increase the pay of various groups of men who hear the advice of men who will be canceled by these laws, so that advice of men is removed, will lead to a decision to pay for certain groups that are still under the adviser's advisers to serve as ministers. In what way, what are these groups? How much can he do to increase? What will be his authority and authority to increase his wages? It's great that you're being knocked away by men's advice. It's great that the employees'wages are being attached to the average promotion and that those in charge will always be followed. If there is a particular source of valuables and remuneration in society, you will not receive it until the public has received it. That is a very good principle. If the chairman of the Committee wants to explain to us what authority is being given to the minister to make decisions temporarily, but still decisions for raises - any other person under the advice of a man. It would be very good to have it clearly here in the public address.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u41	Mr. President. I'm sorry that I got carried away earlier, so maybe I could have been a little shorter in my previous answer. It's clear that there's some unfinished business. We need to make sure that the directors of the institutions who may not have received their release will obtain them. However, there is a possibility that the advice of a fool will not do so. On the other hand, the provisional arrangement suggests that the members of the party who die under the age of 39. the law on the rights and duties of the servants of the state, but having a case for the treatment of the Council of Elders, will be completed on the basis of that law. Clearly, ministers, these are very few cases, these legal matters and the rights and duties of the employee according to the law. I hope this answers the question of the senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u42	President. Just to review the situation. We're in a good place with this bill in the sense of removing this hospice council that's been making illegal decisions I'd like to say and have charged with VR the decisions made by the Board of Elders. on Day 2016, when it increased the salary of senators, Ministers, and others far, far beyond the general salary development. This board will no longer exist, even though the law says to follow certain criteria for general pay development, that is why I and the union of VR were charged with this. Those interested can come and enter the court, I think. 1330 now on Thursday. After two days the case will be settled, where the state, or state attorney, prays that the case be dismissed. They do not want the matter to be handled, interestingly, when citizens are seeking their rights when an administrative agency seems to make a decision, and a number point it up, have been violated. The labour market members clearly say, both ASI and SA at the time, that the decision created a significant impact on the labour market, which the law clearly says is not to be done. The labour agreements must not be put at risk by the majority of the employees; they must not even be put at risk. Not that it happened since, but it must not be put at risk. That is the law when the decision was made. As the situation is now, advice will be dropped. It cannot continue to make such illegal decisions, and it will only be attached to pay development - of course, I want to look at it a little further in this case of government employees, what it will be about to translate - but it's good that it is being attached to general pay development so that those in charge will not increase in pay unless the population has paid up. It is the principle, and it is a very good principle. Otherwise, you're just starting to get suspicious. People look up to it as they have been doing for the last year and a half of the year when officials are raising their wages and the people are left behind. Councilmen raise dozens of percent of people against which ASI and others warned. VR and other unions warned: work markets will not be satisfied with this. That's what we're facing right now. We're facing a very big disagreement in the workforce. A workforce has to be balanced at all times. People experience what they have been experiencing, that executives go far beyond general pay development. And then there will be conflict. The bill, however, is doing one thing. At the same time you're about to break down the advice: You're not supposed to make these decisions, so the decision is being made to a minister. I asked the 1st mission official, the Chairman of the Committee, why. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kámsson, about earlier. He meant that there were a few cases, but we have to follow up on that committee, too, and see what these matters are, what real sources are being given to ministers to make decisions and benefits before this fixation, that the salary will increase just if the employees' employees'pay, which are officially revealed as I mentioned, have gone up there before. So I run the story a little bit, and my feel about it. As early as September 2016, Congress pay was raised by 43%. Earlier this year, they had been elevated by 13%. It's all natural. Teachers gave away their names. We then know the history, both ASI and VR, clearly declared that this was causing trouble in the labour market. I criticized that decision immediately and had an article a week later, since I had taken the position on who could stop it. The president could have stopped it, but understandably he didn't. It would have been unconventional in many respects. A board of directors could have admitted a mistake: Listen, we just made the wrong decision and acknowledged that the decision was not based on general employment development, which everyone saw was not taking place in this case, and the advice that this need to be corrected. A minister might also have said: " Hey, you need to correct this. That is what Davíð the son of Oddsson and Geir H. Haarde did back then. No, it wasn't Geir H. Haarde, Ásgrímsson Asgrimson did it at the time, they sent a letter. When that letter was not answered by the Board of Elders, they passed the law. During their first year of work, each of them each year had such dramatic increases in the salary of the senators and ministers, who were severely critical of the labor movement, and they caused serious problems in the labour market. What happened next? As a result, there were laws, laws on these decisions, and new decisions had to be made, we're not talking about 43% increase, there were much lower percentages under, well below 10%, so the council could set them up as law. If these things weren't, if there wasn't any person who could do something about it; the president, counsel, minister, council, I'd sue. I made it clear at the council that this was done. I mentioned this on the Presidency Committee when the elected members of Congress were only reduced to meet something else. I mentioned it, but it wasn't enough. The labor movement has said that there is not enough work to be done. Pirats and I gave a bill to correct the pay. This raise would be canceled, and another officer's council, corresponding to what the law said, should be followed by general pay development. It was put on a committee. Nothing further took place during the council. About the spring, I spoke better to the lawyer and said, "Hey, we've come to this place. We went through the situation, worked on the case, and concluded that in this country, he said that in order to have the best chance of being considered a member of the case -- to be a part of it - to be involved, to be a paying person in this country looking up at this and looking up at the trouble of a job market, to see how the economy is in danger - man, woman, on the street in Britain who was not fond of Bgreit could sue that decision. It's not possible in Iceland because the courts in Iceland have defined it as so narrow a matter. Here you can say, "I'm a part of the story. It affects me. I want to do something about it. I want to sue this government decision and find a conclusion on that matter. The fact that I was a senator, we tried to find ways to find out, it wasn't entirely certain, but to have a labor union that is clearly in the role of standing up to governments and others for their agents, for members of their union, working for their interests, if a union cannot be involved in such judicial matters, there is no one who can be involved in such a judicial case. After the election was 2017 just before the New Year's Eve, in December, U.S.R. agreed to sue me as we did in December. Taking the case into consideration has been a significant delay. But now it happens in two days. Then we will see if the State meets its requirements for dismissing the matter. If not, and the courts will find that the decision was illegal, it will only be canceled, and a second decision must be made that is in agreement with the failure of those in charge to address the general pay development, that they will have to follow up on the basis of a decline in the government's wages. Then I'm also interested in seeing how this law would affect it, because what this bill does is merely a decision made at the time by a dresser, a decision made by an entire labour market or a professional team agreed that it wasn't a law and was causing us, and wasn't allowed. This is the situation. This is our tour. It'll be exciting to see what happens in two days. It's in the hall, I think, 302 p.m., in the province of Reykjavík, at 1:30 p.m. Then we'll see how the situation develops.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u43	V.E.G. President. I personally feel very discouraged when men arrive here in the council hearing and say that others have violated the law, that others have not done law, that something is illegal. Hv. A senator must realize that the Council of U.S. Council is commissioned to decide on these matters, under the laws that apply to them. We may feel that they are being misconstrued, or we may feel that they are wrong, but they are commissioned to handle this. This involved not only the average pay of public employees but the public market - yes, general pay and reference classes in that sector. [[Up front.]] The point is, because this is the case, that it must be understood that the year 2013 or 2015 cannot be determined. The classes under the council experienced a decrease in pay from 10 to 15%, then they were frozen for a longer period of time. So when the raise comes to work it up, you come and say, "Here's a lot more than everybody else is getting." It is an unfair norm. It cannot be claimed that the decision is illegal because it caused trouble. I can only remember decisions, whether it was old-fashioned or sludge, that caused trouble when it came to these classes. It's always been. The problem is that these groups were never regularly accepted but had a long period of time passed, and then they were going to make it up. Of course, loss of income was lost because it was only that late. [[The president calls.]] That was an unnatural project.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u44	Mr. President. Exactly. A firm decision was to be made in accordance with the law. What did the law say? The law said that internal harmony and external harmony were to exist, and everything was to be generalized. The first line of agreement is to aim for those to whom the advice of a man needs to be made up of others who might be comparable in society, but who are not under the advice of a coward. That's one decision. The internal harmony is that if a person under a dresser gets a raise in the salary, he must be careful to deal with others, i.e. Others need to increase accordingly. So clear is it that those who have read the law, read the articles, read how this changed from a collective committee to a Kjara Court, and then in a dresser's office - it was particularly repeated: we are going to tighten it, and we are going to make a very good decision, on the inside and on the outside, not beyond the general pay development. That's what the law says. Now everyone I've talked to, whether it's a prime committee or in any other location, is in agreement with the fact that the salary of the Parliament went beyond the general pay program. It was used in some way, which was then pointed out that it was not enough to lower the approval of members of Congress something on the presiding committee. Note that the presiding committee still has that authority. Looking at the fact that we're not still affecting our salary, and it's not going to be right with this bill. But this is at least a step in the right direction. But it's clear. Everyone who participated in this conversation in the community, that is, all people in the labour market, agreed that this went beyond what the law allowed them to do. They made the decision to raise the salary of members of Congress rather than the general pay. That's what the law said you can't do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u45	V.E.G. President. At what time? For example, when a senator speaks of this going beyond the general pay grade, did he aim for it? That's what I'm talking about. A senator talking about time since 2006 when the Board of Slurpee arose? No. Hv. A senator must realize that this was not just about general pay development. It was also about certain high - ranking groups. The law was like that. We can have a problem with the law. [[Foreground on: No.]] Yes, but this is not to say that it was more than some form of pay development. No, since there will be so much gap, these classes at a time where there will be no increase. If people are going to be reasonable about this, however, this is a very similar process of paying, but it will only happen in a short period of time. Everyone who wants to know knows knows. But humans can always be in their political propaganda and their populism forever in this, and it will always be. I know that, so there's nothing to do with it. Of course, this is just normal pay development from that time, but the problem was that these groups were sitting for years behind. For years. Then there's this big rise, and it's going to be all wrong, and it's also happened every time it was done, and it's also 2006 in the Old Kjara Court. Everything went crazy. It was also a challenge during the council, even though Davíð the son of Oddsson and Ásgrímsson the son of Azgrim largely advised that they should take over the affairs of new laws. That is not to be imitated. I hope they never go that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u46	Mr. President. The Senator said that if we were from 2006, we would not have gone beyond the general pay grade. That's not true. I only have the numbers directly from the Presidency Committee that calculated it. I have the numbers directly from the Ministry of finance that calculated it. Those who observed these matters back then agreed on this. These are the numbers from Bjarni Benediktsson from the Ministry of finance. These are the figures delivered to us on the Presidency Committee. Yes, it does. After the Commission decided to lower the terms of the council by 100,000 or 150,000, there were differences between what was said and how it was viewed, a decision called by the directors of all classes at the council, the figure is greatly reduced to the date of 2006. [[Up front.]] Then we'll come to the other place. Hv. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson's son must look at those numbers. They're both from Bjarni son of Benediktsson of the Ministry of finance, they're on the Committee to Presidency, and they've been counted for us. That's for sure. [[Up front.]] Then we're considering 2006, the year Bjarni Benediktsson and the government wanted to do in their own time. Absolutely clear. On the other hand, if we are in 2013, we are naturally far beyond it, and this reduction in the terms given by the prime committee is not enough. Why should we aim for 2013? 2013 is the standard for which 70% of pay contracts, majority of pay contracts, had to be considered in the general labour market. It was the conversation that happened. Therefore, it matters because when the law is read, they were instructed not to go beyond general pay development. They were specifically designed to make sure that the pay could not be increased beyond what the general employee could receive. That's why it was set. In fact, it was said that the decision of a board was not to compromise the collective agreements of the majority of employees, which in this case are the employees who had to accept at 2013. [[The president calls.]] That's why it's fair.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u47	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to legalize a change in public penalties, No. 19/190, with subsequent changes, on a bribe break. A General and Education Committee has discussed the case and has been Bryndís by the Directorate of the Justice of Helgadóttir, as well as a statement from the district attorney. The bill suggests changes to 109 gr. and 264rd par. a general penal law, no. 19/1940. First of all, a maximum penalty for violations against 109 is proposed. ..... carrying a bribe to a domestic or foreign employee will weigh from four years in prison to five years. Second, a change to 264th par. a general penalties involved in a bribe violation to the manager or employee of a business in which to reach not only local companies but also foreign companies. Third, it is suggested that the 264 stragggle be punished. a In terms of both the commission of bribes and the demand or the receiving of them, the same will be the official employee according to the 109th Council. and 128th pars. The law of the law, i.e. that there will be five years for a bribe and six years for a bribe. The bill ensures that Icelandic penal law is in accordance with the agreement against payoffs to foreign public employees in international trade and the UN contract on anti-corruption measures from 31 October 2003. The committee found that with the bill it is intended to respond to international recommendations for improvement in this field from the work force of the OECD, OECD, and from the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, but their tips are largely overlaped. The committee agrees with the importance of responding to these recommendations and ensuring that laws are in accordance with international commitments. The committee proposes that the bill be accepted as unchanged.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u48	President. I recommend a board of committees with a new proposal for a change in cultural value law to other countries, No. 57/2011, but the legislation is on the terms of cultural barriers which have been illegally introduced from the territory of the EEA Member State. The bill is aimed at implementing all new rules derived from Directive 2014/60/EU that issue the Directive 93/7/EEC of 15 March 1993 to submit the strains which have been illegally transferred from the Member State's territory. By Directive 2014/60/EU, the range of values is set out to cover any kind of culture classed by member states or defined by national law or administration as national value with artistic historical or ancient value in the sense of 36. g. The European Union's Convention on the Ways. Furthermore, cultural status, classified or classified as national value, no longer need to belong to the category or meet criteria for age and/or financial value in order to meet the requirements for them to be submitted on the basis of the directive. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Ragnheiður Ragnhelli Helga, the daughter of Þórarinsdóttir, by the Ministry of Education and Culture, and Kristín Huld Sigurðardóttir and Þór Hjaltalín, of the Minjas Institute of Iceland. At the Committee's meetings, a view was made that it would be necessary to maintain agreement between laws on cultural values in other countries and culture laws, No. 80/2012, on the other hand, in terms of national value definitions and timeliness to require the submission of cultural items which have been illegally exported from Iceland to another member of the EEA Member State, as per Article 50. Their law. A review of the cultural laws was reported to direct the Commission to the Ministry of Education and Culture to consider whether the definition of cultural prices must be harmonized to other countries and culture laws. However, the committee suggests a change to the 50th grade. the law of culture to be careful to conform to the law for a time zone. In handling the case of the committee, it came to the opinion that it would be necessary to secure Iceland's Minja Institute for Resources in order to fulfill its role in terms of cultural value laws given to other countries. The Commission considers the importance of having agencies stay within budgets, but it points out that the Agency will be sufficiently funded to carry out a legal function. So, in the opinion of the Commission, it is directed to the Ministry of Education and Culture to review in consultation with Iceland's Minja Institute for ensuring that the Agency can handle the work and education under the law. The committee also proposes that a so-called input device is added to the bill to make a change to Article 15. the legislation on terms of cultural status in other countries and should be referred to the new directive that replaces the older ones. Under this opinion, write along with the one listed here. Councilmen Páll Magnússon, Chairman of Andri Thorsson, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Anna Kolbrún of the Árnadóttir, Birgir son of Ármannsson, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, Willum Þór Þórsson, and Þóra Thurna, the daughter of the Árnadóttir. A respectable president. I have seen that the main thing in this matter is to thank and thank those who listened to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u49	Mr. President. I present the Committee on General and Education Commission's committee's committee of proposals for interpretation of access to digital carpenters. I'm very happy that this case has come from the committee and here to this hall. There has been a great deal of agreement, an important matter. I may allow myself to kill a little bit in the Committee's opinion from the Committee to discuss the subject of the proposal. The proposal suggests that the Minister of Education and Cultures is to work out a strategy in cooperation with the specific bodies of digital carpenters with the objective that all high school students have access to such buildings. In general, visitors to the committee and clients have responded positively to the proposal. To promote education, knowledge, and the community as a whole, the harmony was about the positive effect of digital carpenters. Already, several digital structures have been produced throughout the country. Today, those active in Isafa, the Sea of the Year, the Akureyri, and the Hornfjord, and in Reykjavík, the Far East, and the West. Several of these carpenters have been funded in part by the New Creation Center of Iceland. As noted in the Center's review, her financial ability to carry out her operations in several of the places where digital carpenters are found is small. The committee emphasizes the importance of accepting this proposal in the schedule how support will be provided for the builders who are already active or in the farm. The committee aims to help ensure the construction ground of these builders and gives particular attention to this in cooperation with the locals. So the committee suggests a change in the wording of the proposal so that the development of the strategy will be both for building up and for management of the carpenters. Digital carpenters in the present form have been mainly a part of high school activities. The committee points out that the ideologies of digital development are based on their open and accessible to all who wish to do so and that they are a platform for sharing ideas and studies. The Commission, therefore, aims to work a program that aims for everyone to be able to access digital structures. Similarly, the committee emphasizes the importance of being allowed access to the produce in the same way as students in high school and that regardless of their location, student equality will be guaranteed. The Commission also says that if public access becomes available to the developers, they suggest changes in this proposal so that its aims will be primarily to ensure the availability of high school students, but also the availability of primary students and the public to digital carpenters. In handling the case of the committee, it was considered whether any students in high school would have to secure access to digital development by making a decision on the maximum distance from high schools to their crafts. The committee does not consider it necessary to measure the maximum distance. However, the Committee insists that all high school students always have access to digital carpenters and that they do not want too far to go. The Committee encourages the Minister to consider these factors in the development of a plan based on this proposal. There is a possibility that digital carpenters are not run by the Ministry of Education and Culture. Then it came to the committee's discussion that these carpenters have not so far been on the budget, but Iceland's New World Center, under the Department of Employment and Development, has established their budgets in the carpenters but has no longer been able to support any more carpenters. The Commission believes that the funding of such a carpenter must be based on some kind of government donations while at the same time linking the funding to local communities. In view of this, the Commission suggests that there will be a general budget for financing that may be in cooperation with parties in the community. The Committee suggested that digital architecture is largely based on the cooperation of many different parties, such as high school, rural society, settlements, job drivers in the home and country. The committee considers it important to ensure that, on the basis of this proposal, a plan will be implemented in cooperation with individuals and members of the local community, particularly in view of the ongoing community on a community project where participants will be met locally to ensure that the builders remain permanent. Such participants could be individuals, associates, and other partner groups, such as the local job drivers. The Commission then feels better that there will be a general partnership with the university's educational field rather than that cooperation will be limited to certain universities. The committee suggests a change in them. The Committee discussed the main studies of high school and elementary schools in which the government's policy on educational and academic requirements was published. It was noted that both primary textbooks discuss key skills, including creative thinking and the application of knowledge. It is then in the hands of the school to determine which means they will go to take control of government policy. There was a suggestion to suggest that the co- plan would be developed a primary and high-school teaching policy, including the results of a study plan. would be considered for all the basics of study, learning criteria, and the possibility of reviewing primary secondary studies. In the context of this issue's application of government policy in these matters, the main textbooks have already been published, so it may be unwise to shape other teaching policies along with the other. So the committee suggests that at the planned level, the main studies will be conducted in the context of elementary and high school. The commission stated that Iceland's New Creation Center was responsible for such projects. Therefore, the Commission suggests that travel, employment, and innovation ministers will be assigned to lead the project in cooperation with the minister of education and culture in view of a strategy for innovation, as well as the guidelines for primary studies of elementary and high school. Considering the above, the Commission suggests that the proposal will be agreed with the following modification: The suggestions are so expressed: The General concluded to hide travel, employment, and innovation ministers in cooperation with education and cultural secretary of culture working out a program for development and management of digital carpenters with the aim of high school students to have access to such carpenters but that the carpenters will also be open to both primary students and the public. The plan will be carried out in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Culture, with the Ministry of Professional Residents and Development at Iceland's Institute of Creation, the Union of Icelandic rural society, the university educational fields, individuals and members of the community and other partner organisations. At the projection, the main study files for elementary and high school will be taken into consideration. The plan will be clear on the progress of projects, workouts, and funding that may be involved in cooperation with parties in the community. Under this view, President Páll Magnússon, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Árnadóttir Kolbröndóttir, Birgir Ármannsson's son, Steindór And Valdimarsson, Jóndídursson, Árnadóttir Tínar Árannadjörnótir, and Willum Þórsson In fact, Steinunn's Þóra, whose Árnadóttir was absent from the case, signed in accordance with 4 mgr. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Now I have made an account of the committee party of this wonderful matter, which makes me happy that I have come all the way here. I wish. A senator and a member of my team, Björn Gunnar's Gunnarsson, deeply congratulated that the case got out of the committee and all the way up here in a pit, because access to digital carpenters is certainly a factor in preparing our young people and the general public for the technological advances ahead, promoting and promoting innovation and all kinds of developments in many interesting fields, and hopefully raising among us some more pioneers and inventors in the coming future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u50	President. Other listeners. I couldn't help coming up here to celebrate the fact that the committee has made this suggestion and also agree to celebrate the adjustment of the proposal. In some ways, the committee goes beyond our expectations, but I wrote the suggestion. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví the son of Gunnarsson. I think we're going to stand here, hopefully, after a year and say, "Yes, it was a landmark proposal, a landmark decision to destroy digital carpenters all over the country. ' I'm not sure that people fully realize how much they change, not only in teaching, but also in access to pioneers, to create cheap, and not necessarily cheap, practical, and relatively simple prole. Those employed by digital carpenters often say that anything you can do in the carpenter and all that limits people's imagination. There are always ways. To have access to building, to a place near where people live, and access to tools and tools where these things can be done is important. We can see it in places where such builders are already, for example. in the West, in Isafa, in Akureyri, and in Reykjavík. I forgot a few places because I was stupid to go count them up right, please. [[Up front.]] This has made a big difference, especially in making students interested in using computer technology, learning to use computers and tools to create something. I went to one of the digital carpenters -- you actually call them fab Lab Lab, which is the natural English vow and shortening of ◯frabrication carried out by eight-year-olds to print out their Minecrat-calls. I also spoke with a young man who was learning to build and draw, and he had a little problem visualizing the item on the computer. After drawing up the piece, however, he could print it out and take it into his hands and see much more clearly how the form worked. The digital carpenters allow people to work in their trade in an amazing variety and interesting way, to create, and especially to discover that they may be interested in industrial education, which is one of the key elements of access to the digital industry, triggering the interest of young people to develop into an unattainable industry. I want to tell you that a few years ago, I went to Portugal, to Lisbon, where I spent more than a week visiting the digital carpenters in the city. There were two at that time, at least near the center of the city. One carpenter was fired by a local electrical company and was in their territory. It was worked with designers and the public, for such carpenters need and should be open to the public, and the company's employees trained in using computer - controlled devices, designs, and crafts. The company showed community responsibility by offering access to such a carpenter as well as by taking advantage of the opportunity to train and improve their skills. The second carpenter was driven by the city itself and was in one of the poorest parts of Lisbon. There the designers and architects, both of them, came to work with the neighborhood people and also to work on their own projects because they needed access to such devices, as well as to keep courses etc. It was amazing to come in there and feel creative powers and the joy of doing and creating everything that people can think of. It was incredibly fun, and I learned, for example. ... touseArduino so I can come on my personal side of the trip. It was also fun to use their strengths and, for example, was the way the builders used their strengths. Working very hard with kork because it is a substance produced in Portugal. I could mention many more examples from the trip that once again demonstrate the importance of all of this. I don't think there's any reason to extend my case any further. I want to come back to how important the suggestion is and how much opportunity there is. I would also like to emphasize this to those who accept the assignment, i.e. To work and to gather, to approach it with an open mind. If you are ever to be a bit bold and look to the future, it is when it comes to digital carpenters. They are an enormous part of our ability to activate the land into the fourth industrial revolution and are simply not drawn back from other countries. Although the assignment that the group receives may not be much, it is enormously important. I have faith in and confidence that they will win it well and return it to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u51	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Elíasdóttir Friðbjörg Elisdóttir for our cooperation with this synopsis that we worked together, both the proposal and the report, and threw it between us. This is certainly a case where the form gets a little mixed up for us. We should definitely be both 1st squaresmen. The only reason I'm a 1st transporter is because I brought the idea. Hey, you want to do this together? But that may not matter. As suggested, the project would end with the fact that all high school students would have access to digital carpenters. Indeed, the ideologies of digital carpenters are available to all. But if they are located in such a way that high school students have access and the right level for education to begin with at least, in order to introduce this technology to others, then it is so easy to take the next step. I thought that the suggestion would so easily grow out of the field. But because the new proposal is the way it is here, I just want to thank the General and Education Committee and just the council to follow, hopefully, a great deal for taking a bigger step. It's just that by making this adjustment, it has become a conquistador of the council. It's as simple as that. Only for digital factories in general and for the technology that is being developed there, I believe this technology produced in the digital industry is as much a step for human society as the invention of the alphabet, the printing machine, the pen, or, in fact, just the Internet. It is the future pen of how we make things. It is of utmost importance to take these steps to help educate and teach these devices as soon as possible because the results that will result are so great. The sooner we start this thing, the more we get back. I'd like to take this assignment to another project that may not be entirely related, but it begins earlier in the education system. A project was recently initiated with Micro:bit two years ago under the leadership of Illugi Gunnarsson's son, the minister of education. Then I was working at the National Science Institute, and we were assigned to put Micro:bit, a small computer, in all elementary schools, sixth and seventh grades. That assignment in the Institute of Education was extremely successful. Every school but one, I think, which was just not with the sixth and seventh grade, I think I was, but all schools with sixth and seventh grade accepted computers. That project is, for example. in cooperation with KrakkaruV and other members. I hope, actually, I haven't been able to keep a close eye on the project since then but I've had a little look at it and I was told that these computers were still being distributed. This project has so much to do with the digital creation project. Because the Micro:bit computer can be used as a control device for so many things to build in digital structures. Although originally suggested that after school, it is so fitting in basic schools too. Really, really, really, really, really, And I called for it, or hoped we'd end up where the motion has changed. So I really can't say anything but, thank you very much. Good luck.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u52	Mr. President. I would like to thank you for the fine work that has taken place on the committee and for this matter in general. I heard that it was in progress and asked to be involved because the matter has something to do with me personally. So the project arrived in Iceland after I had found out about it on the Internet, and it suggested to my partner, Frosti Gíslason, in the Western Islands, who is now working in the construction business there. We decided to make a move and to reach out for funding to get this project started. It was being done well at the National Institute of Creation and funded for counter measures as a result of cutbacks on codfish that were going through a bad year's trip there. We started our project in 2007, with fine results. The idea was that technology was coming into existence, i.e. digital control, digital manufacturing technique, and control of devices, which could actually produce anything. The original package referred to leiserskers, freighters of different sizes and shapes, wine tailors, and circuits, so that any circuits could be built. It was extremely important for me to open up such technology to more individuals. I had learned programming in my own time just because the equipment was available. The idea of learning to create any tangible object was very desirable for the same reason. Then there was the other side of the coin. This seemed to be the first step toward a new industrial revolution. Today, the fourth industrial revolution is spoken of and can be criticized in various ways. But if we assume that this is some kind of industrial revolution, we need to examine the consequences of industrial revolution. One result is that there has been an increase in the number of people who have strayed. Those who have the technology, especially those who are early over it, have more opportunities to grow and improve their economy than those who receive it late or never. Then there was a question about how we could secure all the access to the technology as early as possible in the process, before the 3D printing would be daily, and we would be at the point where instead of injecting a small amount of plastic into a place, building up a three - dimensional model, as it is done today, you could inject atoms together and make exactly what it was, e.g. you can go online and get a chicken sandwich and print it out and eat it. Of course it's just science fiction today, but there's no reason why it always has to be. The question is, If you can make anything that has so much extra costs, who will control your technology, and who will remain? And if people have a chance to separate someone from the technology, how can that be decent? As a result, I made many trips with regard to that work, and I even took it. share in building a digital factory in Jalabad, Afghanistan, Pune, India, and elsewhere. It was always the same, leaving the guess at every place to learn about technology as much as it evolved and participate in evolution as it did. It means basically that kids, often young children, often with their hands and through such basic work learn from engineering, physics, chemistry, etc. This is in a way prepared for further study. At the same time, because it's an open public, it leads to the founding that pioneers and businesses working in each community have the potential to apply in such technology to develop new ideas, to solve problems they face, or to test new products, and to go into product development. That is a revolution in itself. To find a similar revolution, you need to look back in history and into places like that. Charleston, South Carolina, where the town was built in its time, centuries ago, originally, around a common carpenter with access to all the people. It's a natural tradition, but it's a very rich tradition in many societies - although I have not found an parallel in Iceland in history - for common shapes carpenters, equipment and things that people can access and that make it easier for everyone in society to go further. And we've got some stories. Now digital carpenters are literally everywhere. I think it's hundreds over a dozen. There have been various forms of cooperation. At some point in Amsterdam, there was an easier way to create artificial limbs, hands, feet, and similar ones, for people and especially for places like Cambodia, where there is a lot of land mines, there's no solution. The idea was that if you could take measurements and build appropriate solutions for the local people at low cost, it would totally change their lives. Then there's India, as I've mentioned. It is worth mentioning Anil Gupta, Honey Bee Network, I think that the name that links poor people who live in very bad situations like this and gives them the opportunity to solve their own problems, regardless of what they may be. Barcelona has been very effective in cooperation with the civil sector for the continuation of the city's development and building projects there. There, a strong link between architects and the digital carpenters has led to a much faster trend. So there are extraordinary things to do with the interiors as soon as they are there. I'm not going to extend my case with any more stories, although I could continue all day. To me, the project has developed from a small experiment in the Western Islands, which is rooted in a small experiment project in southern Boston, on being one vote from becoming a public policy in Iceland, to go that way. There's something that I think showing where we are going as a council should be talking about the fourth industrial revolution or the coming technology and progress. We have a chance to take good examples from here to here, make them better, if we can, but always aim to take the best ideas, from where they come from, and use them to raise Iceland as high as possible, so when the next industrial revolution comes, we're not at all going to get the technology in our hands.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u53	A respectable president. I'm gonna keep this brief, but I have to come up here and thank the senators for their vision, for their prowess, for their prowess, and for their success in carrying out this assignment, and for their committee. I happen to be deeply involved in this matter. It's probably been 2010 or 2011 that I was in one of the most prestigious art schools in the world of Edinburgh to complete my studies and crush three-dimensionally on the Internet and the potential around them. I became completely obsessed with this technology and with the possibilities it could offer. It's only been 2010 or 2011, and I remember people not knowing what I was talking about. People had never heard of a 3D printing machine before. It was then possible to buy your own home-three-dimensional printer, which you kind of put together at home, in a very raw level then. So I find it amazing to stand here a few years later in Iceland's most distinguished institution and to witness in person that this institution is in harmony with time and the era, even before. I could stand here for days and admire digital carpenters and their potential for what they can offer. I would be very interested in doing so. But I don't think that's necessary. There seems to be an intense unity and a positive attitude toward this project at the council. I thank you, too, for speaking now. paritaprevir Albertína the Friðbjörg of Elíasdóttir's daughter and her enthusiasm, evidently she has a clear understanding of the meaning of this too. But I'm just gonna talk about the possibilities about this. Hv. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy mentioned the possibility, perhaps in the future, that atoms could be digested into such machines and printed out food, although it was certainly part of science fiction still as if the situation was now. However, we are now developing around our sea station - I am not quite well enough to figure out exactly how this is done, but our products of Iceland, seafood, are being crushed into powder formulations, placed into such a digital machine and printed out food. They're introducing this. It's turning into a bit of a fashion. But they can also print out jewelry - give us as an example one interested in jewelry design: You can develop, send the information across the world, print out there. This is so great. And there is another factor in this: It's just as important to get people here to be scared. This, that high school students always have access to digital printery, is so omnipotent and is really an equationive operation for this group. I agree with what others have said in the past, hoping that they too will go into elementary school for years. But this means that at low cost, any child in Iceland can develop its ideas on the world in a tangible way and learn and study the world, sort of create a new one. This is amazing. I could talk here for a long time, as I say, but I won't do it. I hope that won't be necessary. I sincerely hope that this case will be established here at the General Assembly and complete and enter the real world here in Iceland. Finally, I'm going to say, "Congratulations, all of you." Good job. Congratulations to all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u54	A respectable president. I don't think it's necessary to extend this discussion much. All of us seem to agree deeply on the importance of this matter and on what it has to say. It is clear that digital carpenters are more interested in research and technology in elementary and higher schools. It enhances technology and technology and enhances the capacity for innovation in education and employment. It also creates an environment for innovation and promotes our competitiveness, both our companies and our educational institutions. So I'd like to thank you for this fine committee opinion, or this fine council proposal and the opinion of the committee. And I think there's a lot of success in opening this up further. I listened to what I heard. paritaprevir Elíasdóttir Flandrafjörður, the daughter of Elisabeth, did this when she was abroad and saw such a phenomenon there. That's exactly what I've been walking into -- you can't call this institution, an open house, in fact a carpenter, where innovation is truly there, and a fertile thought. That's why I think it's so important, as long as machines and tools are being invested as these on the other side, to make use of it, and allow the public to participate in this. I think it's positive in all respects, and I'm very pleased with the outworking of this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u55	Mr. President. I'd like to thank you very much for this. I'm from Cape of Hornfjord, and there's a dream in cans to hear what's going on here. What we have considered is what this small community, 2,300 people, has been building up since 2010. The Western eyes were followed, and we were in a rural government in the East. I have to say, over the last few years, a man has been surprised by the contribution of the New Creation Centre. You've been feeling that she's pulling out. That was a great deal of support at first, but it has been a struggle. I specifically cut what was said about construction and operation, that there we are getting someone with us on the projects. Because they run this place as a dream project. High school students have a digital carpenter and high school students, it's open to the common people, it's senior citizens, people who are dealing with disabled people, anyone. Everyone's got access there. The kids come here in the fall making Christmas gifts for parents and friends, bar mitzvah gifts, whatever. It's building a musical instrument, the Virodo Music Festival is built up with stuff that's being made there. Like I think it is. paritaprevir Elíasdóttir Flanders, daughter of Elias, came in, there is nothing that can be limited but the imagination. This is great, and I congratulate all of you, and I hope this goes all the way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u56	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a pan-European and educational committee for a proposal for the interpretation of a digital print-renewing program. It will explain in my language what this is about, although the title may not fully indicate it. The Committee has discussed the matter and received its meeting Eiríkur the Ministry of Education and Culture of England, the Guðrún Nordal of the Institute of the Year Magnússson in Icelandic studies, the Örn Hrafkelsson and the Þorláksson from Iceland's National Library of England, the University of England's Lands Library of England, the Margrét Rut's Júlíusdóttir from the National Museum of England, Þóra Heiðar from Ingi Soilgga Svansson from Iceland's Icelandic Library of Books, and Halldór Birgisson, the Attorney Association, and RagnheiðurTryggvadóttir from the Ritfjöróðóðsson of Iceland, Sigríríðsson, Rutóðsson. Reports on this were received from the Library of New York, the Society of Icelandic Books, the National Library of Iceland, the National Library of University, the Ministry of Education and Culture, the newspaper of Iceland, the Institute of the Year Magnúson of Icelandic studies, and the National Museum of Iceland. This proposal suggests that the Education and Culture Minister will be assigned to appoint a group of workers who make a cost-and-time plan for the digital printing process, which will be available to read online equipment, and will consider the possibility of meeting agreements with author-sponsorts for such digital remakes. We're talking about getting books into digital shapes. In general, there was an agreement among candidates for the objective and purpose of the Parliamentary arrangement. The committee's meetings called attention to the fact that work has already begun in this area. On the one hand, a meeting committee was arranged on the basis of a provisional law on literature, No. 91/2007, who produced a report on the future of the Icelandic publication in 2014 and on the basis of that work, the National Library of Iceland has produced a plan for the scope and cost of the suggestions presented by the Commission in the report. At the same time, the National Library of Iceland has been working on a digital translocation of all Icelandic books published by 1870, thus producing about 500 of you. [ Picture on page 23] magazines are available on the Web site. However, the Minister of Education and Culture has been commissioned to set up a targeted, collective and ambitious policy on the preservation of Icelandic culture on digital form based on a synonym approved by the Council of Congress in May 2014. In March 2017, a report on the preservation of cultural heritage was published in a digital form that points to information acquired on the case. Thus, the report has provided a basis for governments to make decisions about the next steps. It was reported that since the report was published, the formative and ambitious policy has been developed in this field that the Minister of Education and Culture could be submitted to the Council by a reference to the above synonyms. The Committee found that during the 2014 Parliamentary decree, cultural differences have not been made, but the existing Parliamentary proposal could provide the Icelandic press with a set priority while other data could have been damaged, such as photographs. In this regard, it was concluded that this body's interpretation should include photographs, movies, pictures, and sounds. The Committee has concluded that this arrangement of interpretation would be appreciated by the 2013 Icelandic government cultural policy, which set out the goal of making the nation's cultural heritage accessible in the most digital areas, as well as by the evangelization of No. 36/143, which I stepped out here at the moment and still didn't have the number on it. For the Committee there was a perspective on how to define the spelling of printing, how such files were made and preserved, when a book had reached its age to no longer be available on the market, and what was included in the use of digital redundant writings. In addition, it would be unclear whether the objective and purpose of the work group was to refer specifically to the methods used by European institutions and offices and in the North countries or to whether or not these methods should be compared and even costs. The Commission therefore aims to further define the role of the work group in the order of the group's letter in accordance with its policy of preserving cultural heritage in digital form and the report of the meeting committee on the future of the Icelandic publication of 2014. The committee stresses that the work group also takes into account comparable work in foreign countries and of the methods used there. The committee's meetings discussed the importance of ensuring that digital recycling would be available from the beginning to print - type people. In addition, the importance of using the texts for research and for the development of the Icelandic language was discussed. Large text collections are a very important tool in many fields of intellectual science, social science, and also in language - based technologies, i.e. in articles related to grammar. Accepting the Committee under these indications, it is important to ensure that the highest possible availability of the Icelandic printed language from the start, for both the print-based and the investigator, who are using digital recycling for study, including: with hardware processing. I'd like to mention this here that I think this is a great example of a case that at first glance may be said, if you wonder: " Is this involved in some way in which people are concerned or in the right way? It certainly does, because there is an increasing variety of access to the written culture we have. I feel that this perspective is important, and I am glad that it was presented at the Committee meeting and that it is set here in the Committee's opinion. In the treatment of the case, the Committee was advised that in order to serve as a member of a staff, it would be necessary to ensure the access of stakeholders, such as that nominees would be subject to study interests, the interests of individuals with the printed page, and the interests of courts. Special emphasis was given on the importance of the project itself and its planning in consultation with the authors' unionholders but also on the making of agreements with the rights and management of the project before the operation. The committee was presented with the possibility of setting up the Norwegian model, of the digital recycling of printed books, for the basis of the synonym. The committee emphasizes that representatives of the stakeholders will be appointed to the staff and that it is urgent to consult with justice at all levels of the case. The committee points to the importance of a broad agreement with the Author's Association. In addition, the Committee demands that the work group look at the results of other countries in the digital recycling of cultures, such as Norway. The Committee's meetings discussed the costs of job support in the spelling of Icelandic printing, the cost of digital recycling, such as staff, equipment, and the long - term preservation of the digital data available, and the cost of payment at the rights or in the company of those who have to negotiate. The committee was told that capital gains, among other things, need to be examined from the basis and technology. The committee notes that the role of the expected task force is, among other things, making a budget for the project and stressing that the work group has the above views in relation to the design of that program. In addition, the Committee suggests that the work force will take into account the earlier orders of Iceland's National Library of the Lands, ◯ National Library, to plan on the scope and cost of making the printer available. In view of all of this, the Commission suggests that the Parliament's resolution proposal will remain the same. Under this opinion, everyone in the General and Education Committee is writing, i.e. The one here stands and stands. Councilmen Páll Magnússon, Director Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Director Árnadóttir Kolbrún, Birgir son of Ármannsson, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, Willum Þórsson, and Thordldur Ævarsdóttir Övarsdótir. In this regard, I reiterate what the committee's conclusion says that, like all the committees, I suggest that this council proposal be accepted as unchanged.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u57	A respectable president. Thank you very much for your advance. I'd like to get together just two things that are in the General and Education Committee, on the other hand, this case, which is very good and I support my mind, on the other hand, an exception from author law where computers are expected to get to read books without reimbursement, without being under the same limitations as living things when it comes to reading books and learning from them, the important word there is to learn from them. This is what one speaker mentioned in his background address, i.e. about this mechanical option made by digital Icelandic, e.g. for the access of disabled persons to our culture, our books, and our books and everything that comes to them. By agreeing with the bill on notation from authorships, the objectives of the Parliamentary arrangement could be better met, in a much more practical, more quick, and inexpensive way, where more people are working toward technological development on these exact issues. I'd like to think about it. A traveling overseer may have said, " Is it possible to compare these matters together, perhaps putting them aside to each other in order to do even better than what has come here? '
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u58	Mr. President. Here comes something good for bad. So I was in part absent from the visitors of this case, not all the discussions about it because I was simply doing other meetings. However, as shown in the committee opinion, authors of books had to be arranged on how to pay them. As indicated in the opinion of the committee, the representatives of these stakeholders may be part of the work group, and in some cases they may at least have some financial interests in the way of these issues. I can't say whether these two topics have been specifically compared in these discussions, but I think that the discussion was rather on the verge of thinking about how to secure the interests of the writers. But I think that the committee, if the synoptic proposal is accepted, and when the staff operates, they will likely consider what was discussed at the General Assembly, and this will be presented, and in this way they can take a further position on whether it is something further to be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u59	A respectable president. Hv. A senator is not bad at all. These two languages are similar, but they differ from one another in view of what they aim for. The synonym that is discussed here is made up of humans as users and readers of the material put on digital form. The other issue I compared is about those who are reading computers, but they don't have money to pay for the material themselves. In this system where a computer is used to read books, learn language, learn statistical connections in words and places, etc. For Icelandic languages, in order to digitalize, it is simply impossible, for those who are having their computer do the job, to pay authors of tens of thousands of books that are needed to get to the point where the computer needs to learn and do Icelandic digitality. These are definitely synergistic factors in which a computer is doing Icelandic and, at the same time, can be used to help achieve the objectives of this synopsis proposal. I think the General should take both of these matters, this case definitely - it can easily start right away - but we should take the other case, the avoidance of digital law, very serious. There's going to be a huge leap in statistical digital language technology in the big world. It's simply foreign people who have become more digital than Iceland. [[The president calls.]] The sooner we do something there, the better.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u60	Mr. President. I agree that in a digital world, Iceland is the most important thing to us as a community and to us as advocates. Of course, speaking and maintaining this language is part of our culture and our contribution to the world culture. Of course, that is what we need to keep in mind. At the same time, I feel that we cannot overlook the fact that there are people who have used their hours of work and who support themselves in creating literature in this same language. That is why it also needs to be taken into account, for it may not be possible to simply walk on the job of others without getting anything for it, or I feel that we need to be careful about how other people's authors work is done without any paying for it. There are some things that need to be considered about how best things will be done. I think the committee proposed for education and cultural ministers will establish a program for digital printing, and that this is one of the things she can work on, although I reiterate that the committee discussed in her committee's study that was to be in charge. [[The president calls.]] I think it's important too.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u61	Mr. President. We deal with remarkable developments. This article will show that its preparation has already begun, a variety of preparations have been made. The worst thing to know is that there's a huge book thing that both pales and breaks down because a large portion of it isn't on acid-free paper, as everyone knows. This program makes more attractive literature for many people, especially those who want to read on screen, apart from the fact that this medium is less perishable than the books itself. This guarantees access to many unattainable bookmakers because they are few copies because they are expensive or they want to buy their original books. I'm not going to reenact the project myself. It is probably somewhat time - consuming and, to some extent, complex, but it is welcome and encouraging effective work. No one is going to face up to this activity as a defencer in English. That is exactly what I think it is, in defense, even though it moves forward in several areas and then on the very basis of a variety of endeavors and ways to promote the language. So you can say that there is an important part in the language in this country. Mr. President. As a writer, I will have a full share in the things that I know how to reverse in that subject and will come up as much of my work in digital form, whether it's books of learning, novels, or poetry, no matter how authorial rights will be struck. I'm not going to tell you exactly what that is, either the rights or the possible payments. In short, it is a joyous and positive matter during the many negative discussions that are often under way, both in society and in Congress. I'm finally going to let myself thank you for the very best. A pan-European and educational committee for the efficient work they've given them, looking to good digital book dates.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u62	A respectable president. I'm just gonna explain digital English. This synonym suggests a digital redesign of Icelandic printing. It is half a step toward making digital technology. The second step, the whole step, and the larger step, in fact, is that the computer understands Icelandic language. If we do Icelandic digitality, which is a huge step, it may cost some money, but I'm willing to claim that coin is monotonous and will do us for thousands of years. The overall cost is not deemed to be deemed, but the result is the value of an immortal language in digital form. Digital English is increasing the number of readers in English. I allow myself to claim that authors are not quite loaded in that environment. The only way to digitalize Icelandic is to allow computers to analyze Icelandic books and languages. That requires an enormous amount of information. True, we could make some monotonous cost to pay the same amount to all authors, but the authors certainly do not fail if their audience increases. The digital books produced by this synonym will be available to many, many more readers. If digital, someone in Japan can buy a book in Iceland and simply read it in Japanese, or even Icelandic, I mean that it is translated right away into Japanese. It works both ways. I can buy a Japanese book that is automatically translated into English. That is the advantage and wealth of digitalizing Icelandic. As people know by spontaneous translations, they have a exquisite flaw, at least at the same time. But even a computer can learn style after all. I do not set myself up in the prophetic process to plan for the present state and present aesthetics of computers to mean the limitations they now have. I expect much more progress in that field, but only if we allow a computer to read our work will we succeed. At any rate, if it is decided not to give an exception to authors' law that computers can read authors' material to learn Icelandic, that the working force, although not specifically stated in this Parliamentary arrangement, also takes the task of determining whether it is not necessary to perform the task while performing Icelandic digitally, not just the books.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u63	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the tips he brought here. I see I've taken the wrong file, now I'm just noticing mine. The Commission reviewed that one of the most important things that would come from putting the literature missing into digital form is just using it for research, using it in mechanical development, helping computers to learn Icelandic, using a much richer written file. The points the senator enters here are very consistent with what was discussed on the scene of the committee. With regard to the penance, if you look at the project in a very broad context, it's probably the only thing that can become a stumbling block. That is why we suggest that we work with Chiefs to find some way to get the project forward. In these categories, the majority of the non-market part of the literature is wanted to get into the public and the mechanical work that the senator names and all the wonderful things that could work out from it. I think the points mentioned here are not to worry about, but just one of the points that will be considered by the above - mentioned committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u64	A respectable president. Certainly, but in order to make this a little clearer: the non-market version simply means all the books that have become public property, the author's right expired. But what the computer learns, it's old. I can't explain it any more. Then we have computers that talk to us between 70 and 100 years of age. The case develops, and we simply need to consider the Icelandic language as it is today and tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u65	A respectable president. So I'll just say the word "what." Then I think that the books discussed here are not just those of the author's rights because of age but also of younger writings that authors haven't seen for some reason as market. What book is marketed cannot be defined by a set number of years or by a certain number of years since the death of the author; we cannot set a protocol for it. That is why this conversation must take place with the publishers of authors and those who have other interests for this matter. Very likely, this suggestion will lead to something related to what the senator mentioned, that the books under this code are not the latest. The books that sell for each Christmas are likely not to be digitally available without a price, as we propose. As mentioned, something needs to be considered is how to get the text into the mechanical process so that the language can be based on modern technology. I think we'll agree on that, me and him. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u66	A respectable president. I appreciate that, I agree with that. A senator said. I may have wanted to add a little bit to my research. I don't think it's important to be out of research, i.e. that it doesn't matter what the point is. If the purpose is merely scientific research, historical research, however, this does not make such a clear point for consumers, e.g. to the Japanese I mentioned who may wish to read Icelandic books. I think it's a professor or doctor of grammar at Tokyo University who's working on language education based on specific criteria and language characteristics, a memory loss, as they say. In time, we will be far better able to use the product and what the computer learns to teach, not just to produce scientific literature or research.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u67	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a committee party with a bill-changing proposal for the Iceland National Registry. The committee has discussed the matter. There were 11 reviews from ten sources, and most of them followed up on these reviews and came to a meeting of the Committee. They even gave it to the committee. to meet Skúli Þór Gunnsteinsson from the Department of Transport and Division, Björg Finnbogadóttir and Ingi Þór Finnsson from Iceland's National Registry, the Hrafnhldur Arnkelsdótir of Iceland, Þórður Sveinsson of Peron Protection, Sigurður Ingólfsson of Gangvera ehf. And Haukur the son of Arnþórsson. The news came from Society on parental equal rights, Hallmar ehf., Iceland's Hausptu, Arnþórsson Arnethósson, Percontainment, Reykjavíkurburg, the Union of Icelandic rural society, the Association of Industrial Organizations, the Organization for Economic Organizations and the Association of Professional Science. As to the bill and its purpose, it is suggested that there be a new law on Iceland's National Book. The bill is to put a frame around the Agency and its tasks and roles. In this way, the bill refers to her control, her organization, her goals, her tasks, and her role. Directives on the Agency's activities are widely distributed in the legislation and are difficult to review all the projects carried out by the Agency. The bill is not to replace unique laws that will further address the Agency's tasks. This calls for the Agency's registration rights in the bill. The objective of this bill is, therefore, to put a frame on Iceland's National Book, its project and role. The Agency role is required in Article 3. The bill and the 1st. Its place is universal. In the second paragraph of the law, the role of the Agency is set out in more detail. For the treatment of these cases, a indication of 3rd degree was observed. the bill that calls for the general role of Iceland's National Publications Index and the Agency's projects. The Committee gave a view of a 3rd degree. Section 3. The bill requiring the access of Iceland's National Publications Index to collect, process and publish statistical information on its legal projects that meet the standards of personal protection may overlap with Iceland's Habitat on the processing of public economics under the regulations of Iceland's Hauspium and the official report, No. 163/2007. The objective of Iceland's statistics is not clear, and whether and how development is linked to public reporting is unknown. It is available that Iceland's National Registry take care of various types of information and the necessary authority for the Agency to collect these information and publish, such as national information and booklines, and to provide markets. However, the Commission reports that with the bill it is not intended for Iceland's National Registry to enter Iceland's Habitats under the law there. This led to comments on the removal of 4 mg with the bill. Twenty-niner. Law on Nation and Public Index, No. 54/1962. The law contains a code that includes The National Office of Iceland's sources are laid out to use national and its data for its economic reporting and to require Iceland's National Publications Index to provide the Agency with free access. The committee points out that with the existing bill, there is not a change in national and public registration law and this authority is still present. At the same time, there was also a suggestion that neither 3rd paragraph nor 3. and elsewhere in the bill would clearly explain the role of Iceland's National Publications and the Use of Social Services, but there are compelling reasons for the protection of social security. It has been noted that the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs is working to draw a bill on national and public registration in an effort to set standards for social security. The Commission agrees with the importance of stating the rules for this issue and therefore suggests a modification of 2 mg. Section 3. The bill in which the National Library of Iceland will be called for to publish social security numbers. The committee presented the view that it was right to add a new paragraph to Article 3. the bill that Iceland's National Registry provides access to information about the parents and the guardian of the child to meet conditions of personal protection. The Commission was informed that Iceland's National Registry has entered a national registry of information on vensk and foreview but at present the information is not available. The Commission reports that the bill is intended to set up a framework for the work of Iceland's National Publications Index, but it has been proposed to start a bill for a national and public registration procedure where such registration would be more appropriate. Therefore, in view of this, the Commission aims to consider the above comment on such a registry in the processing of the bill. In the bill it is new that there is not expected to be a government over Iceland's National Book to register and assess real estate. Today, we have a seat in the management board of Iceland's National Records, representatives from the rest of the financial organisations and the NGOs who pay a fraction of the cost of operating. The bill's report says, with permission from the President: 4 mg. is suggested that a minister be able to establish a professional council with representatives of the Agency, stakeholders and other members. Such persons can be an organization of financial companies, county offices, and real estate agencies to name a few. For a similar provision, see 2 mg. Section 3. Legal on Transportation, Transport Administration, No. 119/2012. It is necessary for a minister to order a professional advice as necessary or to organise consultations on various specialities and technical solutions. The Committee offered tips on the importance of making sure that, just as I considered from the bill's report, there will be other interests, including them. There's a particular monitoring role on the operation. Four. Section 3. The bill stipulates that the Minister can establish a professional council with representatives of the Agency, stakeholders and other stakeholders in order to be the site of consultation and information exchange in the Agency's field. In view of financial interests, the Committee suggests that a minister should be made mandatory. In the 5th. The bill is about services. It suggests that the National Constitution of Iceland will be permitted to collect dues under the legal dues of this day. At a meeting of the Committee, this release form of Iceland's National Publications Index was covered in Article 5. The bill. There was a consideration of the 5th paragraph. was too bed and there was no clear discussion of the Agency's funding as well as the indication that the directive did not meet the requirements for 2013/7/EU. For the Committee it was held that Iceland's National Registry was not restricted on the basis of a service fee, and in general, services are not sufficient to pay for the services rendered. A revised currency was signed this year, and some increased joints, while others dropped. The committee was told that those who had grown would need to be increased. The Commission's rights, as stated in a bill with the bill, are not expected to change the budget that the National Institutes of Iceland will be controlled in part but that they will earn what the Agency does through sales of information and services, i.e. By collecting services, running straight to the agency. In the opinion of the Deputy Director of the Generals No. 2534/1998 points out that in terms of services, it has a high-level cut-off, clear-down value to the cost to be paid to the target. An agent has confirmed that in the subsidiary of the material resources of the expense workers allowed on services it is possible to consider fixed costs for the management of an institution in close and direct physical contact with the legal services granted on the basis of law and to be subject to a curing authority. The Committee stated that we deal with Article 5. The bill has been guided by comparable laws, especially by Article 13. Legal on Transportation, Transport Administration, No. 119/2012, and level 9. law on registrations and real estate assessments, No. 6/2001, but also another law, such as Article 19. Law on Nation and Public Index, No. 54/1962. A report published by the National Review Office of the Group of Us at ◯ At least 13 paragraph 13 shows that the above - mentioned directives are presented. provides clear grounds for registration and services. The committee found a view that reimbursement would limit individual and pioneer options to re-use official information in support of innovation. The committee believes that payoff according to Article 5. The bill and reimbursement to re-use official information did not overlap. The current record of Iceland's national records for reimbursement depends on the price to provide access to specific information. The Commission was told that Iceland's National Registry did not charge a special fee for allowing the reused information to be reused according to the new disposal laws on the use of information. The committee points out that despite the legal examples referred to, currency rights are somewhat different, for example. appears to be a minimum of less than the regulations of the new issued law on the use of official information than the 5th paragraph. The bill. The Commission believes that in a clear way, the agreement may be made on the basis of government retails, guided by the demands on government services to provide and to address citizens' rights. At the same time, it was suggested that the cost of paying is unclear who should be paid for the drafting of elections. The Commission has concluded that Iceland's National Registry can provide a fee for the formation of markets with a warrant for the F- team 5. the bill, but the stock market is made up of the Agency's second files. However, the information community and Iceland's issues were discussed. In the treatment of the case for the Commission it was noted that the regulations on the information community were taken out of the bill, i.e. For the publication of the Isle Key and the registration services of Iceland.is, as well as the development and management of Iceland's Information and Service Office, Iceland. The Commission states that the arrangements were issued on behalf of the move of the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs to the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs and therefore not considered time to set up regulations for Iceland.is on the bill. National records are addressed to the secretary of transportation and rural administration, and the Committee points out that it may be difficult to assign them tasks that are responsible for other ministers. With such legalization, the Ministry of Economics and Economics with a governmental responsibility for a project without formal management and monitoring clearances, such as IV. section on Iceland's Management Board, No. 115/2011. The Committee stated that the Department of Economics and Economic Affairs signed a contract with Iceland's National Registry on implementation for Iceland. The committee was presented with a well-being structure and that Iceland's Ministry and National Publications worked together on the website of Iceland.is and mailboxes related to the site. A number of changes in information technologies under the identification of Digital Iceland were also in the dough. Then it was reported that the Ministry considered a general legislation on public and public electronic communication. In view of this, the Commission does not believe that there is a reason to have a law on Iceland's National Registry laws on the content and organization of Iceland. But it emphasizes the importance of projects relating to Iceland.is, the publication of the Iskey, the information community and electronic communication will be made available to clear legal and social responsibilities and direct it to the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs to speed up the production of the bill. Then there are some other aspects that the committee discussed, and it also suggests that there will be added to a general reference to a law on identity protection in the a-and-c team 2 of numbers, a- and b-coma 3 and a 4th Figure 9. The bill to be consistent with the 3rd mg wording. Section 3. The bill. I have considered some of the key issues and changes that were discussed by the committee and had a lot of work done. This is certainly a framework for the role and projects of Iceland, but many of these projects are very important. Especially was there a few issues to be considered when it came to registration and the information community, as I was considering. A respectable president. According to this, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following change: 1st At Section 3. The bill, which focuses on the role of national files, follows the words '-ethnic file, and linked the files to a-part 2.mgr. Come on, let's go. We'll publish Social Security numbers. Instead of the words, ◯ may be put in 4 mg. come: should be set. 2. That's the change I went over earlier than 9. y., turning to change of other tracks, on a-and-a-coma 2.coma, a- and b-coma 3rd, and 4th Figure 9.g. Added: the metance of laws as for personal protection and processing of personal information applies at each time. The committee suggests that the bill will be accepted and changed. Under the committee's opinion, publications are written in the following languages. paritaprevir: Páll Magnússon. General and Education Committee, Willum Þór Þórsson Thor Thorsson, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Anna Kolb Kolbrún Year's Árnadóttir, Birgir the Ármannsson, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, Þóra Turnar the Árnadóttir, and Thordur Ævarsdóttir Övarsdótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u68	A respectable president. I have so much fun looking up a financial program. It contains, for example, has been expected to create a new national file system and maintain the current national processing system, as stated on page 24. By permission of President 196: These include registration and sharing of the information on the registry of individuals in apartments. Another interesting feature on the same page is the funding of the topic field. Organizations are now being merged. It takes many things, not just at the time of harmony, but often as a result. But the funding of the topic field goes down, from 3.8 billion 2019 to less than 3.7 billion 223. I've only heard that building a new system isn't so cheap. I wonder, and will probably do it more in the second round. with regard to financial programmes, how these projects are funded. This is not very evident in a financial program. However, since this matter is on the agenda and is related to this point in a financial program, I find it normal to draw attention to it, as a number of national projects are discussed in the bill and a measure of interference. I guess some part of the reduction is simply explained by the transfer of projects between recruitment, but there's an exchange of access, there's a service contract between that, the expenses will certainly land in the Ministry of Economics, but not necessarily in this non-translation field. It would be, I would think, more fortunate, that the role would be with a national file, also legally. Otherwise, we are actually dealing with a specific double file where access inside Iceland.is actually the national record, and there are some other information that is practitional, too, that can be seen in financial and economic records, even though they are stored and served in a national file. There's a double on that file, and I don't think it's right. There's a bit of a mix-up I don't realize. This is a very important organisation that carries very delicate data according to its function. I wondered in relation to another matter that we are discussing in the near future, the personal protection legislation, the records to collect, the sex, the social security number and the like, and the way it rhymes with the personal protection laws we need to confirm. Then, in particular, I look at a change in other law, a election law that allows Iceland's National Constitution to work personal information on how to make markets. It also states in the Regulation that a minister is permitted to discuss the following details in the Regulation, i.e. The role of Iceland's National Records. I wondered if it's too much to take policy from the Council in terms of institutions. If I combine the role of the services, I really feel that it has something to do with the role and services it is about to provide and the services laid down in the bill. These terms require a registration of services, e.g. access to real-estate evaluation, the burn-back assessment of new real estates, real estate information, national records, other things to do. There are a number of factors to take into account, salary costs, production, driving, training and re-educing, costing special service, housing, job position, communication equipment, and equipment, and I don't know what or what. However, at the same time a minister is permitted to define the role of the National Relations in the Regulation. It must have something to do with the service that the Constitution is to provide. I feel that the connection there between the quick, tiny miseries, is fixed to what national service fees can be charged but the role does not comply with the service to which the National Account is due. The role is also defined in Article 3. So it's an interesting combination of roles, which also ends in a regulation warrant. I don't fully understand the context there or how it is explained in the report. As regards the role, there is one specific point. The F- team tells the Agency to help policy-making and decision-making as appropriate. I imagine a national record as an information-making agency and I'm not sure if it will help with policy development and decision-making. I think it sounds like you're walking the step further than counselling, even though the setting of the exit is just a counselor. There are a number of things that often happen when organizations are being combined and that create new total laws. Overall, it is very nice, but there are baits that we must always be alert to when organizations meet together. I went through it when a research agency and a study center were united. You would have thought that organizations could simply continue to perform separate roles under the same roof and move each other forward. But the role changes somewhat with one another on the different responsibilities established by institutions. They develop and really prevail if they succeed. A national record has now added to Iceland's Real estate. Here's the connection to the Constitution itself and the real estate record. In the field of nationalities, there is a particular collection of data related to the location of the house, even education, and gender. It's a living in the Haguess. There are a lot of new economic reports and changes there, probably with access to national and national data as well as now to the Constitution. This is certainly a very suitable relationship, but the data do not have to come from as many places to be useful, but at the same time, the integration must be strong that the protection concept must be strong, what is being thought of in policy. This is especially expected for more extensive population, including location and education, as well as the wide dissociation of data based on gender. As far as we're getting more information, we need to stop and think why we're collecting this information. We need to explain our goals. In this regard, the personal protection laws work, not just to collect the data for our benefit and curiosity. I make comments on the financial agenda, like us many other aspects of it, that the goals set out by this bill to do some of its work should not be made in terms of the results we see in collecting the data, in order to explain why we usually want the data, why we're collecting them and making reports of them and paying people to do so. We're only informed that this should be done. This is the defect I see in that such an important institution collects as important information as data, e.g. About a ballot. We also need to consider the role that the Agency has and the services it provides and really plans for its purpose and the collection of data we offer here. Of course, you can see lots of potential collection options and e.g. Real estate record clear. I would be happy to have the Constitution much more accessible, much new, so as soon as the declarations were completed, they would be electronically recorded and available to everyone in order to see how the prices and prices will change on a day - to - day basis. A much better understanding of what is going on in the community can then be found. If the data were available and their goals were defined, we might have provided a much earlier problem with Airbnb. To monitor the development of market prices every week, monthly, is probably sufficient. The real estate log is somewhere in the present location, not open to the public as such. There is very specific access to that information, and the public does not have such access. This could be a concern for the public, e.g. in that neighborhood where an apartment is to be bought or rented. This is available as far as I know in Denmark and other European cities. It is far more accessible to rent prices so that people know the prevalence of rent prices in the area they are looking at, and when they receive an offer to buy, sell, or rent whether the amount is normal for the area or not. It provides protection for consumers, as well as protection or guarantees for those selling, that they will not sell too little. It's good for everyone. All of this is a positive development. As I say, I make comments, but these are not necessarily serious but more indications that the goals we have by collecting the data need to be clear and clear. It may well be that it is in the Agency, something we never see but should be seen, especially when we are making a decision to change the law as they are. We should not necessarily have to rely on old definitions or traditions as to the collection of such information. Perhaps the reason is out of date for collecting information about sex in a national or elected file or wherever it is. I wanted to tell you how difficult a union between institutions is, it costs. Trends in new and good data and systems are also costly. At the same time, it is necessary for the government's policy on what our goals are so clear and also in connection with the personal protection laws, that at least what is required of us, they are acting in harmony with what is expected of us, and that the law, or law, in other laws that we set, reflects the goals we need to set in the future. It's unfortunate that this will be here just before we accept the personal protection laws. We're not exactly that way yet, because we haven't finished the discussion and the collective understanding that we have of how it all works, because the national record of information that will certainly be kept out of that discussion. All we need to do is think if something here matters to us according to the new personal protection laws. Otherwise, we may very soon have to adjust, as usual. If there is something in question, we need to pay attention to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u69	A respectable president. This isn't the first time, and certainly not the last thing I'm standing in this pit and at a place of word. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear on reimbursement of information. Something is changing. This is something that we're changing into every law after another. We are down payment of the government when there is access to information. I'd like to reflect on one thing with him because that law we're ensuing with these songs may be repetitive of what we say soon, i.e. As we look forward to the future, this is likely to be a taxpayer who will pass away. But we were only right at this council to accept the laws on the use of public information, where we are implementing the foundation princes that I think will be here for the future, that deposit for reimbursement of official information should only reflect the clean cost of multiplicity or delivery of goods while the older regulations based on this bill indicate that there are even more costs to be thrown into the calculation of the stock for the recovery. I know why. A senator has given this much thought to himself. And also because the senator is on a budget committee, I would like to ask him how he can foresee the next loss for us, what overall review of legal requirements we might be going into, or if there is any possibility of moving on in other contexts so that we would take this law together with some dozen other legal requirements.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u70	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator very much for this reproof. I had a dot in which I listed my services, but I forgot to mention them. After listing all the terms to take into account the price to be collected, it also forgets that taxes have been paid to create these data. We already paid for it. You're right. A senator points out the use of official information, this was some kind of regulation or anything similar from the European Union, which requires no charge for public data except by this proven cost. When we list the pay and the cost of special services, trips, and support as a reason for services, which are exactly the wages of those who made these data in the final analysis, and we pay them with the taxes, we have already paid them. It's going to be a double payment. This has something to do with what we mentioned about the identity of the Constitution. I've already paid for the registration of these data. Then why can't I look them up in an easy and inexpensive way without having to apply in a dual script and go into the basement, somewhere in there, like The Hitchmaker's Guide taught us so brilliantly. I agree with what. A senator that it is I think a pretty long tapeworm, a museum bill, that will have to go on in the near future to wipe out all the conditions that we started to wipe out with e.g. new changes in corporate law.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u71	A respectable president. Since we've been talking about where we started to wipe out currency conditions, let me mention Iceland's Land Measures, which were set free in open access during the Ministerial period Svandís the Spísar Svavarsdóttir, former environmental minister. But I think it's quite right with the senator, shortly we'll take up the terms of these laws and countless others, and we'll agree in this way that all remuneration for the data that has truly been collected by public funds and worked in the same way, these remuneration warrants will be taken out, and all payment arranged in moderation. This was about the purpose of the currency. Then the other thing that the Senator came in and I found interesting to listen to and hear is a point we've discussed before, and we'll definitely discuss again, that's the goal of the data and the collection of data itself. National records are an enormously important file, the foundation of the government. But it's a lot of butts that build up is based on laws that are decades old. The laws that we are here for discussion are wrapped around the business. This is one place where they gather it. Then there is a law about the substance. You have to record national and public registration laws from 1962. Then there is the need to ask these questions that the senator asked: " Why are we gathering this information or that of the others? Why does the State keep an eye on public religious registration? Why not go into sports companies? Where do we draw the line? Although this bill will be approved in the coming days, it is only a step on a much longer route.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u72	A respectable president. One simple thing is to say: Hear, hear. Thanks for the examples. I might want to end this on one more example, which I think will pad this whole thing together, even the earlier discussion, too. In recent years and decades we have funded research in Icelandic and have produced an Icelandic King James Version and the King James Version, and a digital dictionary, now published in the malid.is. Free even. But it was a bit of a march, I have to mention it only, as it is competitively that public members must not compete with one of the private parties. Because there were some private people who were publishing a dictionary, there was some doubt about whether such a dictionary could be published on the Internet, a dictionary that we've already paid for for for years and decades and should, I think, certainly have open access to. Recently, I don't know how it worked, at least it was about to publish this website, malid.is. It would be interesting to know if some author's fee is being paid behind it or how it finally worked. But I think it's a little crystal this problem we're about to get into on account of remuneration and competitive problems, etc. According to the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures, a program that enables us to communicate, which we are using to understand one another, was not allowed to be published publicly free of charge on some of the laws we set in. I think it is most appropriate to announce that there will be a museum bill that will pass through the expense and payment of various institutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u73	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's request for his speech We're talking about a bill for a law on the National Book of Iceland, about the role of national records. First, I'm going to say that the thing that set me up in a speech chair in return was really the payer mentioned here, and the committee, at least, covered some subjects, services, and fees in Article 5. The bill. I thought why. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson. A speaker of the Björn of Gunnarsson took care of this and, in fact, cannot help but agree with all that was presented there. The password in this, of course, is moderate to all currency, and the committee was very much concerned with the importance of harmonizing it with the laws in which such sources are present, and the committee emphasized it in her opinion. I can say my whole mind with a bang. Councilmen in it. A large part of the Agency's cost is indirect and the cost has to be covered, and it is very important to direct contact between the costs and the services provided. But if we're sharing interest in the government, I'm going to ask him why. A senator in the cost - benefit analysis of goals presented at the end of a national financial programme, and we have discussed quite a few matters. The budget, anyway. A senator can discuss just what he meant in his speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u74	A respectable president. Thank you. I don't remember talking about the cost of policy making. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator is referring to what I said about the goal of collecting data. We need to know why we are gathering data in order to explain why we gather them in the first place and then organise software industry and extramateure, reporting and so forth, and set up a specific policy to achieve the goals that the data are going to help us take on the next. I had, for example. we can't use old explanations on why we collect a particular type of data, but not others, such as. Yeah. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson came by, why we're collecting the information on religious registration. There may be old reasons for what may not be appropriate today. Then we need to revise them and set our goals and ask ourselves: " What are the goals we are going to achieve this difference? I'd like another, first what. The chairman of the budget committee added to the talk group, returning a brief question about something related to it, that is, the income that we agreed on earlier at the council. They're linked to these services in some way, I would think. I'm sure they'll run right into the state funds, and then they'll have to be paid straight back to national records. But I can't remember whether a national file fell under one of those exceptions specifically assigned to the minister to pay as much as, etc. In case of a moment. The chairman of a legal committee could remind me of it, I don't have it in front of me, if it would be well received.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u75	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The answer is for Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. Now I experience myself a strange place in life, being opposed and having to answer a question. Senator. But, Mr. President, I'll take part in that conversation without my going to turn this answer right to my head. You're right. A senator comes in, we had recently approved a bill on market income, but we haven't really taken the step fully, despite having taken an important step with the approval of that bill. And that's right. A senator comes on, with this bill here, it's not changing the Agency's funding. Then we're stuck with a little bit of money that's due and half of it with money from the treasure. This, of course, has to do with how the currency comes into existence. But that doesn't change what we went over, especially that. paritaprevir And Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, and Jónsson the son of Ingi, were very careful in the matter of their answer, wherewith they might build. I thought why. A senator at the beginning of his talk will go on a national budget plan and discuss how we make a national or financing, the Agency, until the next year. We have discussed some of the budgets in which the seminars appear in financial programmes, objectives, and purposes with them, and the expense of goals.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u76	A respectable president. That's exactly what I said about the transparency of financial programs. Granted, we do not see the funding of the individual institutions in a financial programme, but at the same time, we see the financial resources to the jury being reduced. One of the explanations was an assignment. But we've never seen the explanation for the change. I don't know how much funding, reduced funding, explained the application of projects to the Ministry of Economics and Economic Affairs, and how much up-titration can be explained by these new projects listed in the bill. It was really my criticism of the government budget as such, that is being changed, but it is not explained why and what the effects are seen in the above five years. It was one of the core questions that a fund board sent to the Ministry, the basis of each subject's expenses, the addition, and the disintegration of the improvements, or the decomposition of each subject, depending on the main cause. But we only got the total share in plus or minus, not disintegrated. That's why you stay behind and scratch your head and you see together the institutions, full of new projects, move on one project, certainly, and you don't understand whether funding exists for the future or not. We may consider it better in our discussions about the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u77	Mr. President. I come up here to talk a little bit and actually only 5th par. The bill on a service fee that has been discussed here today. I can see from reviews sent out on this matter that some sources of information seem to be concerned that this article, 5 / 15 Look, if you're not clear enough. It must be clear that only the amount of services rendered is being made up of but nothing else; this must be a direct charge, a direct cost of this service. You wonder, when you read this specific set of 5. That, of course, it's quite wide. For example, j-joins 1.mg. Section 5. that remuneration according to tax requirements may be collected for all services assigned to the service 2 mg. Article 3 of that, if you look at the E-Filter 2. mg. Section 3. That's where the President's permission says: The ceremony may, at the discretion of a minister, handle business and preserve other public records or development and operate other public computer systems. If only you look at the bounds of the y-jaw, it's very wide and vague and unrecognizable, but it's also about other lines and other regulations in the 5th paragraph. We see, for example, that in the g team, the National Registry of Iceland is permitted to collect services for information from other files held by the Agency at a time and in the h-involvement of special services for the Agency's legal projects. In a review sent by the General Information and Education Committee, it says that Reykjavíkurburg seems to be worrying about this, that it's going in this way that it's not clear enough. Reykjavíkurburg does not make material comments to the whole bill, but it seems necessary to make absolutely sure that the registered service of national files, such as the formation of local institutions, for example, is always an exception to a service fee. They count, i.e. in the above reference to the city of Reykjavík, that this is not clear enough in Article 5. the bill that there is a complete count for the tasks allowed to collect services for. I kind of have to agree with that. Of course, the Agency's authorization to collect services is very comprehensive. Two. Section 5. says, with permission of the president: ▪ When deciding to pay in a tax file, the costs of pay and pay-related pay, production, driving, training and re-education should be provided in order to obtain specialised services, housing, employment status, communications and equipment, management and international cooperation in support of the Agency's legal projects, as well as travel and maintenance costs. This law 2 mg. Section 5. Of course, the vastness of life is vast. The committee's opinion specifically shows that there is no question about whether there is any overlap with the constitution. You wonder, in terms of the warrant the Agency is able to collect fees, how vastly vast it is, whether it is actually adding additional taxes to the public, because the public pays for Iceland's National Remuneration on their tax returns. It must be quite clear, as we all know, that services are only collected for direct costs, that other costs of management are not being mixed into when charged. Hence, there are many examples from the Supreme Court that have made this clear. At that time, the emissary of the Generals has also been able to fit in with these items. The committee's opinion shows that the meetings of the Committee were discussed with them on the matter of the payment. Of course, it can be seen that this has been watched, whether it is possible to be overly moderate, i.e. This source is given to us as a national registry, especially since we have recently adopted and implemented a European rule on the re-use of official information. It also discussed a considerable number of cases, as discussed in the Commission on that Regulation, that all remunerations for the use of official information must be very limited, not to be charged unless it is absolutely clear that there is no additional cost to the consumer. It seems that some of the committee was aware of this overlap, i.e. the overlap of this bill and of the European Commission's Commission for re-use of official information. Yet, I cannot quite see that the question was addressed as shut down to their speculations. It is true that Iceland's national records today have a legal right to pay, but you are still wondering if there is a greater source available to the Agency than there has been before. I'm at least worried about this particular set just because of what I used to do, i.e. "that there seem to be a lot of discussion of the law, "and it's very open. The complete list of 1 mg is not clearly stated. Section 5. Indeed, there are fine examples of contributing to various services. Well, it's been appropriate. Still, there must be absolutely clear evidence that there is a direct cost to that service. Iceland's national records play a number of roles, as the bill shows. In the 3rd. The bill is listed as providing the Agency for the national registry and related files and caring for the management of data and information systems. It makes you wonder how the Agency will precisely define without adding additional taxes to the general public, what costs are only due to the services of the person in contact with a national file, whether they arrive at the site or electronically, requesting. He's asking for some information, requesting registration of new real estates into real estate, asking for information from a real estate file or related files from a national file and that. How can it be ensured that the Agency does not cover the legal requirements it has at the expense of services? You have to tell me, as it is, when you look at this specific set of regulations, that's the way it is. The bill seems to be not completely assured, that the Agency is at risk of further guaranteeing its own business, strengthening its support, adding to the currency it provides. You can also see that the Agency is authorized to charge extra fees for services outside of standard office hours, and this is how a employee's work is paid for stress according to the bank of Iceland's Constitutions. It is also authorised for the Agency to recommend a discount and a chargeout even in certain cases, e.g. to students and research projects. Then you wonder, when you figure it out in such a way what the cost is of each project, what the cost is to provide answers to electronic inquiries from the Constitutional section of real estate, for example, or provide information from a national file without printing out a certificate at any time or without any document being delivered. What, then, if someone is, what will be the result? Will he be divided into others who are gathering information but who cannot use a similar discount? It's all cheeky things that I'm starting. But I can't see that these questions are answered here. Of course, it is mentioned in the committee's opinion that the committee considers it to be a clear agreement in terms of government reimbursement, taking into account the claims of government services to provide and to the rights of the citizens. Surely, all of us can agree that it is important that all such fees be set in place, and we try not to yoke the citizens, that we do not leave the government yokes on the citizens, enough is now in expensive season. I can't see that this bill guarantees that it doesn't. So I have to express a little concern about the regulations set out in Article 5. This bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u78	Mr. President. What a joy it is to hear this particular emphasis! Senator on Fifth. Because to me it works on me as if it was written 50 years ago as it was in 2018. Much of the sources being provided to collect services are based on the fact that people pay to look up items that are currently in electronic records in databases. Even in one place on the i- team it's literally called electronic i- team requests, in the f- team, we're talking about names. Now that you have an electronic file, the basic cost of turning on the computer in which your database is on and the cost is extremely low. But the cost of deforestation is in itself no one. In other words, the total cost of digging is zero. That's why I wonder which way. A senator can help me understand what it is like to be in the general rules of the public administration to charge for something that really doesn't cost you anything. Is that allowed? Is this not just immoral? Could it even be suggested that all services should be canceled for that type of electronic checkup when there is no peripheral expenses?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u79	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy for the question. This, of course, is exactly what I wanted to talk about here. What is the direct cost of having information on some page when it might be said that the person who receives the information has some value in turning on the computer and blocking the electricity? Of course, it always takes something to keep out Web sites, that is, at some cost, and to have information there. Electricity costs. In turn, however, the Agency also has certain legal obligations. As a result, the cost of per se is cost. How does the Agency plan to define exactly what cost because the person went in and picked up the information that was installed on the page? If the database, database, has been prepared, then the cost must vary depending on whether the information is drawn in a thousand times or a million times, then the cost of building the database will certainly not be the same.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u80	Mr. President. Yeah, that's exactly what I'm talking about. Now energy prices are somewhere around 7 k. At a kilowatt hour, and the computer that runs the database may use approximately 800 watts, so this one computer costs less than 6 k. In the hour and maybe there are some because the server can be elsewhere, so it could be several computers. Everything we're talking about is even high, as it happens, at 12◯18 k. Over an hour running such a computer system. This does not change, regardless of whether one thousand or a million queries is involved. It is really just the cost of creating a database that counts. As soon as this legal role, to collect these data, has been met, which is necessary for, for example, the operation of the national files, regardless of whether people are allowed to look up in that data or not, it would be impossible for me to state, since these data have been collected according to a legal role which is inevitable whether or not, that more people than the Agency's employees can do at one time, at all, much more. Because the perimeter costs are zero. This is really the problem that I face in this type of case, both national, corporate, and other electronic files. It's nonsense to say that it costs something special to do this service, actually 12 K. 18 K., over a thousand. Can it be justified? I don't see it. The lawyer may be able to help me understand the line.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u81	Mr. President. Yes, these are the everlasting questions. It's as said before, with reference to 40. gr. Constitutions, forbid taxation except by a clear law. As a result, a requirement that governments, including governments, are generally forbidden to pay for their services or solutions. The government should pay no particular price except by a clear law. This is a bill, so, of course, it is a clear law to provide this warrant. However, the decision to make a amount of services must be based on a very reliable calculation. Maybe that's what's missing in this, especially because we're talking about this electronically, and we're talking about that if a person shows up in a national file, the person has to carry all the cost just that the office has open. The bill has the right to deposit travel expenses. Whose travel expenses? The manager's travel expenses to collect information on what national records are available in other countries? Is that the cost to the one wishing to serve? I'll tell you what I think is too broad and too vague.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u82	Mr. President. I don't mean to keep it this far, but I thought there was a reason to come into it that there's a scene in Section 5. The bill I would have liked to see a global and educational committee being taken for only different because it is, as I came into the answers to--I don't remember who I was talking to, but that may not be the main point. It's been so long. - Yeah. [[Senator laughs.]] The point of the matter is that there are certain fees allowed to be paid according to the bill that are not justified, that I think, based on the actual cost of giving the service, i.e. many of these tools - mentioned in f-joints, deportations, especially electronics - are spoken of as access to real estate and national records and related files in each case, that they may be charged, but these files are primarily electronic today. There is no perimeter cost that goes out of the list, except in cases where there is an employee who literally needs to do this for someone who shows up or calls in. Electrical names should, in any case, be free. You can't talk about how the cost of creating the file is what justifies it, because the cost will always be. It is not as if these files cannot be created. It is particularly interesting to consider this in the context of the discussion that was here last year on the opening of corporate files. It was exactly the same idea that we had on our way, that since there is no real cost to these data, there should certainly not be any cost to those who receive them. It's a lot more natural for us to pay off national records or taxpayers in that case with taxes in a natural way than to be making these specific regulations that are about to try to justify something. It's the only thing I've ever noticed in the bill I thought it meant to criticize specifically. Perhaps this is a basis for further analysis of the future and of whether it is justified in such cases, especially where electronic registrations and electronic databases are and what is being charged with access.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u83	Mr. President. This is precisely what we need to consider carefully and carefully about in our ministry. The financing of services is not permitted. You can finance a particular project, a service service with expenses - since these are services - but not double - of the same people for the management of an institution. Of course, we run an institution like the National Bank of Iceland with our tax dollars, so you can't see that there's no access to this if the registry exists and it's the legal function of an institution to keep out the file, to collect information, and to have it available, e.g. ... forthecompany. If the public wants some information from this file or this database that exists, but it certainly needs to be maintained in some way, they should get it. I can't see that it can be doubled. Hv. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy said it was during the discussion a year ago. What was that about? Can the senator tell us?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u84	Mr. President. Yeah, it was a proposal from The Pirates last year that went through and became a law about the opening of a company file. Perhaps it is right to explain that a company file with the governor is one of three. In fact, it is several different files because it contains a private partner file, a partner file, etc. A device file is separated from what is called a shareholder file and what is called a annual account file. The bill was to make it possible that the company record would be generally accessible by law and that there would be no cost of electronic exposure through the Internet. Then, in the state tax manager's case, small changes were made opening up to the publication of one of the company's responsibilities rather than e.g. The administration of the company. In general, the file is not revealed in a way that is recommended. Part of the explanation seems to be an inability to open it, just as the understanding of the council was. It points out that the wording is not clear enough. As a result, some 20 million people are involved. K. each year into the head of state tax to finance something on the outside. Is that justifiable? I don't believe it. I think Creditinfo's the biggest customer in the world. I think I realize that this was to be done. We put in a new bill right now to do exactly that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u85	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for these answers. This is very informative, I have to say, because it is actually being used as a possibility of increasing the company's management budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u86	Straining.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u87	Yes, company or agency. I can assure the senator that it is not permitted. You can't do that. It must be made clear that this is a direct expense to what the provider wishes. So you also wonder, as in this case, because the senator named Creditinfo, so it rolls over the cost and, of course, goes on. Creditinfo is only a private property and a public market that has no equal obligation and public authority, to provide information, to provide services, but can only close its offices and stop performing services if necessary. You wonder if it was decided to close some of the information from a company file. I'm ready to help my team when the Piratars get back on the road. But again I ask, does the senator feel that there is something like this here and then?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-05-68.u88	Mr. President. That's a good question. I really don't know. I haven't looked at the ratings and I haven't exactly how much money is coming through this with a national file. It's totally worth checking it out. I've made this three-way analysis here, on a company file, a annual account and a shareholder file, and I remind myself, I might misinformed, that the evaluation of the head of the state of the tax was that if all of them were to be opened, that would mean a loss of income of about 200 million. If it was true and if I remember correctly, then another question. But there may be considerable amounts of money coming in to the tax manager for this reason. I think this evidence should be public. It is not a secret each of the enterprises and annual accounts of an enterprise, extraction of them either is available, is not classified. These data can always be purchased both from the head of the government and from companies such as Creditinfo, which is actually worth referring to. This did not make comments, either positive or negative, to the bill at the time, so they may have wanted to stay out of the dispute and may have been willing to do the same. It's very risky for me to think that this is the way a government tax manager should be conducted. I think it's very dangerous for other institutions to do that. I think we should totally look at it in the case of national records, and if we can, in the name of Congress, we can put together a joint inquiry as to how money is arranged precisely inside these institutions to understand justification, it would be just the best thing to do.
