ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u1	The president considers an agreement that may last longer for a meeting, but the Congress dictates if necessary, i.e. Until the votes are over.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u2	A respectable president. I changed the subject here after a meeting we had, several South American members, luncheon with the town council and the mayor of the West Side, who were just back from meeting at the highest level. Secretary of health. There is no life - saving service, no special emergency service, in the South American National Institute of Health. It takes injured in Island at least double the time to get into such service. National label is 45 minutes, but the island dwells at least 90 minutes. This has a surprising beginning of 2013. At the beginning of the 2013th year, medical transport machines from the Western Islands were moved to Akureyri. This was done by the clear, specific justification that the island had an operating room with a life - saving service. That operating room was then closed in the same year, but the plane did not come back. For five years, however, there has been no life - saving service or special emergency service in the Western Islands, and the waiting time to enter such service is at least twice the length of the country. This is a physical life - threatening situation and must be corrected. If there is no apathy against this crisis, the confidence of the Ministry and the directors of the South Health Organization is unacceptable. Health authorities must determine what to do at the Western hospital. If this is not to be a life - saving ministry, it must be done to ensure that the lives of people in such a life - threatening state can be enjoyed at a reasonable time. The current situation in this case is completely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u3	President. It identifies a good society as having needed legal supervision, but such surveillance clearances must be clear. And what kind of government authority is there always good to meet with reasonable suspicions. We must not forget that it is the public that is always the larger and stronger party to every individual and legalist in the country. Our whole system will end with that, e.g. Take this into account or in the form of a legal policy. Recently, the Supreme Court confirmed the Court of the District Court that a government ticket, imposed on the company of Samhera for violations of currency laws, was canceled. In the past, the currency department had provided a large and striking search for the company. Later, a special prosecutor accepted the case, but he decided to settle the crime because of the alleged offense. It was decided by the Council of Government, which the Supreme Court has now decreed to be canceled. Although we do not find ourselves attracted to all kinds of stumbling, most of the days of the year, for some reason this situation has caused little stumbling. Perhaps it is because we are trained to trust blindly in public. Perhaps it is because the victim of the case is less powerful and so needs the support of community services. Neither is a good reason to be indifferent to any kind of surveillance and force. President. In my mind, therefore, there is a need for a full consideration of the handling of this issue by the Commission and the Senate board of directors. It is responsible that the government's surveillance and authority clearances are not met with indifference, no matter what. The guardian of the guards must constantly be considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u4	Mr. President, I'm glad that for the first time, we've been building food policy for Iceland, hoping to see some radical conclusions. We need to make it easier for generation change. Less than five years ago, my family moved from Reykjavík to the country in Eastland. The goal was to make snacks of homemade, organic vegetables. It worked out well, we got a lot of support at first, but there were also many obstacles. I would like to mention the lack of three-phase electricity, poor Internet connections, difficult transportation, high transport costs, high house - to - house heating costs, and low support for organic farming and unconventional habitats. After much development and innovation, the production started, and soon we were in the place many producers know, and it was time to expand and increase production. We tried to attract investors and partners to promote production. Things did not work out, and eventually we were forced to set aside the production and focus on safer revenues. This is probably the story of many farmers and manufacturers in Iceland today. These bills need to be paid. I would like to take advantage of this opportunity to impress on the food policy project. It is a great deal of talk about innovation, and it is a requirement for new and fresh ideas, but it is just as important to support all the many projects that are already done throughout the country each day with blood, sweat, and tears. The climate needs to be the theme of this policy, and in this context I must mention organic agriculture. To the honor that it deserves, the European agriculture and food production will begin. Iceland has all the opportunities to be on the road with regard to its varied, sustainable and profitable agriculture.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u5	Mr. President. I have previously made the terrible situation in the Yemen a subject of this discourse. Children experience what is best for them. The situation is a direct result of the invasion of Saudi Arabia and their allies involved in years of civil war in the country. Bear in mind that these measures have been used in the political support of the West. The situation is that about 75% of the population of the country, or more than 22 million people, are in need of humanitarian assistance. Three million are fleeing the country, and the majority of the people live under malnutrition. Every ten minutes a child dies from a cause that could be prevented. More than 11 million children in the Yemen need vital help. Almost every child in the country. I would like to use this symposium to celebrate that last week, it was decided that the State Department of State would spend a hundred million dollars. for emergency assistance in the Yemen. The progress is equally divided between the two UN institutions that are in the country and with emergency assistance, on the one hand, to the UN Food Programme and to the United Nations Children's Fund or UNICEF. This is extremely important. Remember, though, that the neon hammers are not natural disasters; they are man - made. Let's help the Yemen with emergency assistance - but at the same time, let's use all the pressures we can get our alliances to stop fighting. That's where the U.S. government's responsibility is the most. This is what all of us senators can do, including... in the worldwide work we share in. [[The president calls.]] We are to do our part, speaking for peace and building, not for the continuation of war effort.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u6	President. I read this morning an article in Guardian, which certainly does not contain fascinating reports. It discussed the fact that 1 of every 4 voters in Europe supports the plutonium classes. However, this is the case with eerie experiences, and there is something to worry about. Iceland is no different than any other human being, and evolution in the world will easily become a development here. And that's what I want to talk about. As a community, all of us have a responsibility to try to cope with this trend, but we, in this hall, have even greater responsibilities. According to the preceding article, there are many warning signs, e.g. the fact that the facts are questioned, and especially the tendency to issue other political parties bearing the label that they are just systems whose sole purpose is to defend the dominant system of power. I've been thinking in this room many times. However, it is not in the recorded record - being a simple person, I often think often each day of the words of others and of my own. But how do we talk about politics? It hardly goes on that week here, both in the community and also in this room, that health ministers are not accused of killing people. If our opinions are supported, we will not fear to call it violence. The descriptions of the situation often remind us of Dante's hell, a new translation of Einar Thoroddsens, without the rhyme and the tri-handed. The facts seem to be more and less important, we have a question, an improvement in the mouth of government opposition, and an increase in blue in the affairs of our management. It seems as if we are not even a community, we can agree on whether there are graves down the street, where buildings are laid. It's easy to write my words as some member of the board, to be shocked by the insolence and even to giggle over the stupid way in this guy. That, however, is a simple way. The more difficult way to look at yourself, to think of your own language, to face dangerous developments, and to make changes in order to cope with it. [[The president calls.]] Pilúliism is growing in politics in many lands. We can influence them by taking them seriously in our country. The responsibility of the Generals during the discussion is great, and it is our individual responsibility to share it with us. Let's do this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u7	President. Hv. Senators. I come up here to discuss the government's transport program but I also come here as a representative of Kopavogsville who is going to declare an awful dissatisfaction with the Eaglenes Road, the piece we need in Kópavogi, is still on and off. I respect the amount of money that needs to be distributed at one time, but it's simply no longer possible to postpone this piece, and I'm going to tell you why. This isn't a Typian ball in me, that I want money in my community. It's about the safety of the people. You're here at the council arrange for the time when the medical and fire trucks that we in the countryside are required to follow. This is the largest school in the country. In this area also there is a nursing home, and we are talking about our likely most vulnerable residents where nothing can be out of the open if anything happens. Therefore, in many ways I am taking advantage of my situation and reminding you, especially you on a environmental and transport committee, to change the bad decision to postpone this road. I don't want to have to stand here some other time and point out, like, I'm told you so◯, that something bad happened. I don't think any of us want to be in that situation, but it's not too late to change this. This is not a large sum of money, and I encourage members, and everyone in this room who has some effect, to change this decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u8	A respectable president. We often use delightful words to care for consumer interests, but we do not completely agree on how to handle them properly. I've been pretty sure that the interests of farmers and consumers meet when warning against importing raw meat, unbridled milk, and eggs. But if I've been wrong in these matters, I'm totally convinced after I looked at the Castlight Show yesterday. There, Karl Kristinsson, professor of biological studies, and Ólafur Stephensen, director of the case of professional drivers, were divided into opinions. There they handled the benefits of the consumers of the above import, each showing off. Karl spoke from facts of science, but Ólafur spoke the term "mammon. " In support of his case, he encouraged and spoke of maintaining a precautionary approach to minimise the risk. Yeah, the risk. Because the risk is fact and known. We have been in a hurry to open the land for import of agrienvironmental products. The followers of the free importers claim to speak the language of consumers and speak for their freedom of farmers. The fact that consumers and the Icelandic aggressor's issues are not to be minimized. This also applies when increasing the import of agrienvironment schemes. It is a major interest in Iceland's agriculture and consumers to respond to the increased import of raw products. It can simply separate between a dead and an unscrupulous life in the purity of Icelandic farms. Yesterday, in this public assembly, they said that the candidates were struggling with consumers and were prevented from buying less food. This was the reply made by the director of yesterday's employment company. On the contrary, expensive goods are being sought, not cheaper than fresher. So we're not here yet? Who heals? The consumers? No.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u9	Mr. President. Surprisingly, I would like to use this moment to discuss the activities of the council and introduce some of the talks sent by the United States Parliament's Council to the presiding committee last week to improve the telecommunications of the General Assembly. One of the most important roles of members of the Parliament is to welcome a variety of visitors. So that members of the Parliament can get as many views as possible and as the most clear picture of things, it is important that as many guests have the opportunity and the opportunity to attend a meeting. So there are a number of people every day active in the country that meets the committee, which is good and necessary. Most of these visitors come from companies or institutions that pay for travel costs if possible, but they happen to be called experts who come on their own roads and then have to pay for their own expenses on the trip. The cost of putting before members outside the capital area may be hundreds of thousands in the form of travel costs and loss of employment. Although this cost is paid by an enterprise or an institution, it is often an unacceptable cost for one meeting, even more than half an hour. Similarly, in some cases this means that individuals cannot attend the committee because of expenses, job loss, yes, or weather. Then there are the many carbon tracks that these travel leave behind. In recent years, there have been rapid changes in telecommunications technology, making it possible to maintain telecommunications with a picture in a very accessible and convenient way without having to spend much money on equipment. It is then important that members of the Committee are trained to use the device. This procedure was sent to the Presidency Committee to formally request that a prime committee begin work to ensure that it will be possible as soon as possible to attend meetings by remote meetings and that this option will be available and easy to perform.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u10	Mr. President. I'm here to speak today to call attention to a council decree, a transfer from me, and a few others. Councilmen, a review of legal legislation expected to be scheduled for this council, hopefully before Christmas. The Conspiracy proposal assumes that a committee of members of Congress will re-examine the legal laws currently valid. The reason for revising the law is simply that it violates the human rights of people with mental disorders and mental - health disorders. It's been here a long time, and an overall review of legal laws took place not long ago. But she did not deal with the huge problems and the tremendous discrimination found in these laws but returned, I would say, " Half-worn work, if so. ' In current legal laws, there is a widespread direct violation of law against people with psychiatric disorders and mental - health disorders. There is a direct legal discrimination in our legal law against people with psychiatric disorders. For one thing, it provides clear evidence of a person's loss of freedom on the basis of a mental illness. You can't do that in 2018. The current legal law violates the acquiescable condition of disabled people. They violate its right to freedom, its right to health care. They do not prevent torture and other inhumane or disrespectful treatment or punishment, and they violate the privacy of disabled people. This work, successful, is part of the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people, who have been drawn way too long during this council. I've noticed the interest and work of others before. Congress with this same objective, the United Nations Treaty on the rights of disabled people. There is an excellent council case from what happened. paritaprevir Ágúlá Ólafur Ágústsson and wóg. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson's son, who works for the same goal as I mention here, i.e. To bring our legal laws to the point that they no longer show partiality to people on the basis of disability. That's what I'm calling here to do. Councilmen support this case and therefore advance it to the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u11	A respectable president. In countries and rural areas, 89% of all larger projects go ahead. This is reflected in the technical and engineering reports at the University of Reykjavík. Of the 35 works involved, one went to the expense, three were on the plain, 31 projects covered a cost plan, five of which were above 25% and eight 100% across. Then seven from 125% to 200% crossed, with one over 300 percent. In this case, Norway has managed to reduce the actual cost of performance by 14% through the introduction of public quality insurance. It says we're 1,5◯20 years behind the Norwegians. In this context, I would like to point out that Erik Solheim, director of the United Nations Environment Programme, was traveling for 529 days of 668 and spent $488,518, or over 60 million, on his journey. What does that tell us? How about we go for an umbilical check, start to dust off and think about what we're doing? We were here discussing the budget. For example, there was the fact that if microorganisms did not stop increasing, the cost would increase from 40 billion to 90 billion. We're going, for example. Is the hospital busy with billions of people, the hospital? Watch the Vella-Heave tunnel. Is it not time for us to examine ourselves and meditate? Are we going to move ahead, or are we going to be as practical as Norwegians and go to 14% under a budget?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u12	Yesterday was the International Day of Children. In honor of this, we senators received beautiful gifts from children in Flata School. The senators took turns showing one another what message they received. The gifts made a smile. Thank you so much. But yesterday it was not just the International Day of Children, for there are occasions for celebrations far beyond the number of days this year. Yesterday's other occasion also made a smile - for some. By permission of the President: My dad, the boys just kicked me, and I don't know why. They also said something about ◯ingingin, and everyone laughed at me, and I don't understand why. That phone call came to Father in town yesterday morning from his son. The voice was vibrating, and the child was obviously in shock. Yesterday is also known as a red - haired Sparka. So it was that while another group of older students watched, two boys kept kicking that child. Only by saying, by encouraging and laughing, did that group intervening into the ◯ game, where the day is to kick the red hairs. The father's message, with permission from the president, is as follows: ▪ I was angry, very angry, I was hurt, and I am still. However, my anger is not directed to the school, to the staff there, or to the two boys. These are children, and they make mistakes, and many of them are undoubtedly painful to bind too. The blame here, as I've pointed out in other circumstances, is primarily to find myself, you and us all. The responsibility for the welfare of one another in the community is all of us. It is up to us to teach our children values, to do what is right, to put ourselves in the place of others, to be strong, and to dare to step forward and say no. Because it's not fair that any child has to go through the same thing, I know you all agree with me. And unfortunately, I know a few similar cases today, both in school and in other schools, and how sad it is to hear. It is human right not to be subjected to violence, so I show everyone that today is not all ugly. Today, as the International Human Rights Day of Children, this has been held each year since 1954. So I direct the instructions to all school institutions to make sure that they are delighted in a year. [[The president calls.]] We can do better! Goodbye, father of two red-haired geniuses.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u13	V.E.G. President. Three lengthy days have been discussed here, and it is wonderful to have had the opportunity to listen to many of the good talks. Various features have been rolled up, and many angles have been torn to pieces. The most interesting thing is to hear the smaller parts express themselves out here and south. Trolls, I see a clear vision, but they seem to me to be scattered in a wild, popular race. Now make men mother. Three categories listed here are discussed in The Guardian as an example of a political party. Is that a course of thought - provoking thought? V.E.G. President. It is safe to say that today we pay votes for government budgets that set off with the goal of building wood. The course is clear, it is made clear by the increase in capital for all lawsuits. The objectives of transport, environment, education, and health development are closely followed. That's where the big money goes. In addition, there are a number of things that can be picked up, such as higher unemployment rates, higher birth reserves, improved housing, forestry, prevention, public health, and dentists of the elderly, etc. In other words, in every aspect of human life. V.E.G. President. I look forward to sharing in the building and improvement votes. The bill presented here and its payment are in perfect harmony with the government covenant of Katrín the daughter of Jakobsdóttir. In view of the 34 topic areas and the 100 cases, I cut off those who have won it. The bill takes on a wide range of factors, but even so, there are changes here at 2nd. Very small. Changes are everywhere less than 1%. I want to take this opportunity and thank you. The budget for good work and good work. V.E.G. President. All I see is that the journey was taken, the building of wood.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u14	A respectable president. I have long been concerned about the return of power in some form. In this regard, it is difficult to discuss the most important lessons, for as soon as they are addressed, protests are automatically denied simply by the mention of them. This reaction in my discussion has always increased my concern because it shows so much about how quickly we are to brush the lessons of history off the board altogether. But lately, I've been less concerned about the alien spirit, or inmates, and outsides of poopulism, that of the disaster such as those committed by mankind in the early 20th century. This is because after reading and listening to stories of outright cruelty and disasters from the first and second world wars, it is after they passed away. World communities have been raised and killed. War has been fought, but it has completed millions of deaths, millions of survivors, to build from the ashes of some better world. Today we face a threat that does not realize that we will ever pass by as long as mankind lasts on earth, with the threat of climate change. In this regard, politics is the last place to be put to the test. Then I find that what really causes me the most anxiety about the rise of powerists. Sadly, power - loving leaders in general are not only evil in themselves but also very irresistible to the facts and facts they dislike. They rushed on courage and courage, strength, and pride, not fact, reasoning, perplexing criticism, or humility in searching for truth. As a result, some of the world's most powerful individuals strongly oppose our efforts to reduce the disaster that is indicated by climate change because it requires that we reduce emissions now. Let us greatly increase the energy exchange and the technology needed to soften the impact of climate change today. It requires sacrifices, requires intelligence, patience, tolerance, an honest understanding of facts and enlightened honest debate without shooting. It requires good in us, our best judgment, and our best knowledge. Let them shine and reject the disasters of power now in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u15	A respectable president. I may first object. paritaprevir Þórunn Egilsdóttir here. As far as I know, in the government's financial discussion, I have found myself critical of the lack of control, and this describes a strong political view. Besides, I don't want to mean that there's something that's specifically meant for popularity. So I reject the words said here on the platform just before. I'm going to discuss some housing issues. A great deal of discussion has been made about the position of a facility, and it has been expressed in words such as an emergency. A medical emergency may call for an emergency. People may begin to think: " Shouldn't this structure be shut down, built fast, simple, far away from everything in a community that doesn't disturb anyone? ' Such decisions have been made before, and then we have had to deal with them. The fact is, though, that there are a lot of people who want to build. The union wants to build, unions want to build, unions want to build, senior citizens want to build, students want to build, and many people want to build. And it is being built; 1,300 building permits has been released in Reykjavík for the past year, and that is a record. The last time was 4,000 apartments measured by the industrial organization in the construction of the capital area. Of course, you could do better and faster, but it's still a fact that it's a trigger for this market. The house - to - house problem did not exist today. It came into existence in 2009, 2010, 2011, and 2012, when everything was stopped. If I'm going to direct something to the State and the Ministers sitting there, it's that the role of the State is to ensure that we don't repeat this mistake. Not necessarily a blow in the air now, but two things must be guaranteed. First, that not everything will be stopped the next time we slow down in our society, and we need to continue to clear up our property, as the state has done with fine success in weather areas and other places. I'll think of one large property south of here, which can well be more housed in time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u16	V.E.G. President. A few years ago, it was discussed that bacteria were grown in samples of imported vegetables. In part of these samples, bacteria resistant to antibiotics were found. No such multi-drug resistant bacteria were found in the Icelandic samples taken. During the last weekend, an article in the morning newspaper, by Karl G. Kristinsson, presented evidence of antibacterial resistance as a growing problem. There was also a fine lecture on it last night in Kashlight. So there is no question that we need to be on guard and that domestic food production needs to be well cared for. The World Health Organization has concluded that immediate action must be taken in case of need. In this country, we live to own our own agricultural product, which we must protect and support by any means available. The support of Icelandic agriculture is supported by consumers who are thus guaranteed access to wholesome food. We have to protect our own production in the same way, it's to stand up for competition. In addition, support for agriculture is retrieving in valuable and commercial structures, both rural and urban. Instead, let's defend our local agriculture and health, not the short-term interest of buyers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u17	Mr. President. Although more part of the Economic and Business Committee makes changes to some extent, they do not go far enough, since the increase in the state funds has gone out of control over their original objective and are often burdensome, especially for the most demanding group. It appears that the objective of the government with its proposal was to achieve 500 million. K. in the form of extra income to improve the state's financial status rather than make appropriate changes to the tax system. We in the United States are being replaced by a change in the budget of more part of the Economic and Business Committee than we'll vote against the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u18	Mr. President. Of course, these increases have high prices, raise the index price, raise the loans of the population, and fuel inflation. In the coming bridal conversation, this is unwise and encourages the Central Government to stop these increases. The middle party is against them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u19	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy is a member of the Committee for Congress of Pirata and is largely subject to the members of my section on this matter. He's not in the country, but I'd like to mention that one of the things he's talking about is that there's a possible violation of government income. There are no sources, and we will continue to investigate. It is not okay to accept some kind of mountain backing that could possibly violate the constitution. We vote against this, of course.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u20	Mr. President. The majority of the Economic and Business Committee did not agree to raise the expenditures of enterprises and encourage review of all the fees involved in corporate registrations, whether they are partners, private or private enterprises, and to be considered that they will not be higher than they are going to be in other countries. In fact, the greater part feels it is necessary to revise laws on the rest of the Kingdom. However, it is worth remembering that some of the fees may be less than the cost involved. In spite of everything, the public, for eight years have enjoyed the fact that these charges have nearly all remained the same. We've enjoyed it. We believe that one of the things we can do is to keep a company record unchanged but that it should be considered to reduce the cost in line with what goes on and goes abroad. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u21	Mr. President. These are the budgets of the lost tools, where the poor are left to the poor, older citizens, young people, and middle - class. With these funds, a nursing home even needs to cut down the quality of food for older citizens, such as on Sundays and Christmases, as they said. For what had been promised just two months ago, a person of poverty is betrayed. In spite of the labor movement's statement that housing is the biggest conflict of collective agreements, house - to - house support is almost universal. The elderly and the health institutions of the country are still left in their own eyes. Children's reforms are increased, and high school has a direct reduction between years. A total of 500 bucks is given to employees. on the rise in personality discount, but the big one gets $3 billion. decrease. And now it's going to be like the price of tobacco. On the other hand, the United States here proposes 17 responsible, just, changes that could be completely financed by a more reasonable tax returns to the superrich. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u22	V.E.G. President. It is important to remember that the budget is based on a budget adopted by the General Assembly in June and there are virtually no abnormalities. The plans and the large picture were thus preset and presented here in a very decisive way for continued infrastructure development. The most important thing to do is to keep up the pace, that we will be able to carry out that building in the years ahead. At the same time, it is important to show the responsibility and firmness needed by bringing positive results, by paying down debts, and by creating a wealth of state to provide additional opportunities to support the economy for future growths. A respectable president. This financial bill provides responsible, reasonable financial policies and follows the infrastructure and supports the economy for future economic growth.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u23	A respectable president. The financial bill we vote here for describes a stable financial policy. Proliferation continues for the next few years. We're going to make some adjustments between discussions. There are unusual changes that occur on the bill between discussions. It clearly describes a firm control of government affairs and more intensive work on a financial committee. I'd like to thank the Committee for her work, especially her chairman, Willum Þór Þórsson, for her hard work on the budget. Between years, an increase of about 4.6% is after a 65 billion increase. It describes twofold, a very strong state of state and economic situation in Iceland, and, on the other hand, that the government is going to go on with its plans to build up wood in Iceland and thereby increase its competitiveness.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u24	A respectable president. Lost opportunities and no anomalies, but abnormalities of 1 billion for disability. That's what I think I'm like. The money of the empty promises, I'd like to call this bill, where the government asks for money and doesn't explain why. Where there are billions of promises, more than any other billions. The building project by the bank collapse is big, it's obvious to everyone. There are no cases missing after the collapse of the crash years. We owe to the maintenance and construction of social infrastructures in transportation, health systems, education systems, social services, housing, and morals. We don't pay them off in this debt. We may be keeping up with the interest costs, but it's hard to say because we don't get that diagnosis. On the other hand, we pay down debts of money because we see the interest cost there. However, the invisible interest cost of social infrastructure continues to bite our heels. Costs that eat up the community within and break into distrust, tough struggles, and illness. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u25	A respectable president. Today we pay votes for parish laws, budgets that are applied in all areas. The increase from year to year is 4.6%. We're moving forward in front of everybody. We improve our ministry, strengthen our education systems, our health services, and our welfare services. It is the same thing everywhere; it is increased equations, but an equal society is a better society for all. The climate crisis is a fact, but it will lead us and it will lead us. What a joy it is to have a part in moving ahead in behalf of this vital part of the Community covenant! That emphasis is clear and decisive in this financial bill. A respectable president. It is a treasure - making arrangement that brings joy and satisfaction. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u26	V.E.G. President. The poorest people in Iceland still have to wait for justice to be held in order by the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. My grandparents have to wait for a place in the nursing home longer than before. The government shakes the savings box to scratch up 500 million extra incomes that will raise the loans of the population. The government's on the move, but the poor and older citizens and the waiting citizens are being protected. Waiting skills are now never increased. It seems that people will have to wait for the most common measures, first 8◯10 months after an interview, then 12 to 18 months after surgery. This is the big offense. This will save the health system, the highest. President. What a misdemeanor! This financial bill is based on the fact that there are political powers that agree on nothing but the slightest things but take only what is truly important.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u27	A respectable president. We are now slowing down a very important economic growth, and we experience it. ... inthechariture. We see that in our financial agenda, we are expected to be less successful in the next year than we have been able to and do in these budgets. That's a big growth in the market. What a joy it is to be able to strengthen both the social and economic infrastructure at the same time that we provide handsome rest and support for national stability! This bill accounts for a 5.8% increase in microbubbles between years, which are significantly higher than prices. In the work being done here at the council, it is of great interest that we stick to the framework established by the financial agenda. It's only 1 billion on the income and pay side, which is evidence of how much this new industry has changed. [[The president calls.]] The next year, costs and taxes increase by 2.5%, while the prices raise by 3.6%. [[The president calls.]] So we're giving in to the people of the country. This financial bill is all there is to light. I thank the Committee for a good job.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u28	Mr. President. That's exactly what's been said here, it's a very clear priority on the part of the greater part, on the side of the governments. It's wrong. She's bad. All these priorities are at the expense of the elderly, including the elderly. The healthcare system where waiting lists are based on the waiting list above. For example, it is possible to mention the transport conditions in which the southwest corner is completely left without funding on big projects. There are also other factors. Motives are being set in the interest of large productions. A panel of committees of professional roads further reduced the expenses of yesterday, while contributions for the elderly and the poor are being reduced. That's for sure. The priorities of this government are very clear. She's bad. It's wrong. We want to protest her.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u29	Mr. President. Today, we vote for a budget bill which is directly followed by an approved financial policy has been submitted and served at the council in spring. It was a financial policy that reflected the emphasis that came on in the campaign a year ago, and most political groups in the World Council spoke for trusting key elements of society, whether we looked to health, education, transportation, or public security. That's the result. It's a completion of this budget bill. This financial bill also reflects a tremendous economy in Iceland, a state's strong position. The role of the State Fund with the approval of this budget bill is to secure stability here and keep things in place so that we can continue moving ahead and secure normal growth in the coming years. I'm very pleased with this financial bill and I agreed to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u30	A respectable president. This is called an evenly increased equation. It is said that it is a pleasure to live up to this fine financial bill. I'm just going to reiterate what I said in my speech on the day before yesterday: there is no increase in economic growth or increase in the level of poverty. There's not a price to make up for one single dollar. [[For example, consider: It's wrong.]] The 3.4% mentioned in the budget bill is only legal correction, index correction, to be made annually. [[For example, consider: It's wrong.]] But now it's completely injected and this should be 3.6%. It is shameful to watch this one more trip, to talk about raising and improving the terms when it is simply a legal correction. Let's just put out what's true in the General's speaker. It's a correction. This is no raise. That's about 3600 bucks. 3,800 k. by tax that disability are being corrected in the next year. Oh, boy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u31	Mr. President. The financial bill gives evidence that the government groups will fulfill the promises made in the government covenant. Environmental contributions are increasing dramatically. There is still an increased contribution to health care. And contributions to disability increase considerably from year to year. The structure of the infrastructure continues. The total increase in donations amounts to more than 4.5% of the value. The changes in the tax system continue with an increase in personality beat. It will continue to make the tax system green, which is in line with the environmental importance of the government. The government of Katrín's Jakobsdóttir celebrates the anniversary of the year in more than a week. In two budgets, health and social contributions alone have increased by more than 75 billion. Within a week, it is 750 million per week for increased donations to the tribunals. Of course, there is plenty of work to be done and nothing nears the end. But these funding strengthen the support of the welfare system, promote the infrastructure, and improve the environment. We will continue to improve our community.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u32	Mr. President. V.E.G. A health minister came up here calling this the budget of the parish and the budgets of the increase. I'll ask them, "What are you talking about? " It may well be that there is a considerable amount of money that will be devoted to the well - being of the country and that has been a success in recent years. However, I pointed to the conclusions made by the ASI centre since today that it is warned that these budgets are insurmountable and, now that foot breaks down, they will take a bite on the well - being, the bite of the elderly, the farmers, and the poor. V.E.G. Recently, the prime minister said that the time for economic growth has passed, and now we need to look for prosperity and divide the quality equally. There is nothing, Mr. President, suggesting that the government is going to make changes in the direction of equal loads in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u33	President. Here's a matter of building wood in our children's mouths. Sugar is an unhealthy product, but people, especially children, are being kept in the form of soda and dairy products. A government contract speaks of promoting human health with economic motives. And an increase in a sugar tax is perfect for that. I expect this case to have a track crew on the side of the board.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u34	Mr. President. Although this is simply the case, income taxes and local pay are down by 1,100 billion. K. I suppose it's linked to the decline in the micro-organization process. We are opposed to the reduction in the United States, but we do believe that there may be other ways to earn money to pay back. That's why we don't vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u35	V.E.G. President. This is a reimbursement of a proposal made on the last budget, that senior citizens can earn any money without being affected by the financial expenditures of their pensions. It sounds to me that understanding the interest of elderly ones is as relaxed as he was a year ago. Of course, it is only to continue to make that suggestion until the Senate comes to its senses and makes right decisions. The Senator says yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u36	Mr. President. Studies in older citizens have shown that nearly everyone, or 97%, feels that it would be easier for those who are in pensions to be more active at the job market. The older citizens' employment program brings them greater activity in the community. Increased activity contributes to the well - being and satisfaction of life and the more active older people experience a better quality of life. Governments must be aware of this. They must be aware of the status, expectations, and attitudes of the elderly when it comes to doing business to the positive effects of their older citizens'well - being and their community. The central category has strongly stressed that it is not to cancel income benefits from earnings of senior citizens and is now making changes in the budgets of older citizens' income. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u37	A respectable president. Here's a good idea of a civilian salary. It says that we should use the social security system to support those with good employment in a pension age. That's a bit of a problem with priorities. This isn't a good deal for the public money. Our main concern is those who have nothing, can't work, don't have pension schemes, have not been able to start new jobs to build them up. We're supposed to set up the social security market for the job income in a reasonable way. We've recently raised the payoff target substantially. It would be crazy to take it off. That means 700 of you. K. The director gets social security benefits when he's retired. [[Up front.]] - Yes, because the claim that he's definitely going to have such a good alternative pension rights just doesn't work. [[The president calls.]] That's the solution to a man's money management to those who have not been able to do so. [[The president calls.]] That's the only thing we know. [[For one thing, don't you understand?]] - Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u38	The right to explain his vote is not quite such a general conversation in the audience. V.E.G. Minister said no.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u39	A respectable president. It has been repeated when it has been said that the decrease in the income of senior citizens will profit from it rather than the other. It is no longer that we need to talk about how he might benefit from it. Rather, it is the figure that appears there, about 1.1 billion, the same as came from a insurance agency when asked how much money it would cost in missing bills for these older citizens to eliminate them altogether - yes, 1.1 billion dollars. No one is wondering what would come into the Kingdom Fund instead of the person who would be allowed to work. Nor is anyone referring to what a public health matter that would be. With respect to the highest. Secretary of the budget: You need to learn more about this, chief. Secretary of finance. You're fucking full of shit about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u40	The president recommends direct words to the president.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u41	A respectable president. I'm a socialist. I believe that we should use our insurance system primarily for the worst in the community. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u42	Mr. President. The central category believes the new tax, carbon tax, has no bearing. The tax is not fair enough to settle the population. The price has already increased by 50% in a very short time and is still to be raised. The taxes are not an earmark of direct action on climates, and only part of them flows there. In fact, the carbon costs are a classic tax increase for people and companies where taxation outweighs the land area. So much increase is not possible until the total policy of Iceland's policy on how to use carbon expenditures in the fight against climate change without causing it to bite the country or competitiveness of industry and reduce its efficiency. The central category believes that the government has raised the price in all moderation and does not support this rise.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u43	A respectable president. I allow myself to doubt that this might be worse in the country than anyone else. Climate change and the reaction we have to display in order to reduce what is expected of us all will suffer. There's no way around it. There is no fair solution on climate issues. It's not available. The question is, Are we going to try to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases to reduce future disasters, which I deny, however, are ahead. There is no real difference between scientists in this subject. I vote against lowering that price. I realize that it doesn't seem political to suggest an increase in something people need to do, if that's what we have to do. This will cost you sacrifices. There will be no simple way to do this. And this is not all we have to do. This is among the things we need to do, to have a carbon bill. It will cost you sacrifices. And it's gonna hurt. It's gonna be hard. [[The president calls.]] Sorry, if it's not political, but it's just the way it is. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u44	Mr. President. The Central Party expresses a disappointment that the budget does not expect a greater reduction in insurance costs than it does. It is a wonder that governments have been reluctant to cut down their insurance fees. The fact is, however, that the tax paid has increasingly been used to finance other financial expenses. It is important to support the company's sector now that there are subsidies in the economy, and difficult agreements are yet to come. Therefore, the middle category suggests an even further reduction of the insurance bill, by 0.5%.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u45	A respectable president. In the Treaty, we directly wrote that the insurance bill had to be dropped because there was little room for pay to be paid for over the years. We stand for what is said in the Treaty, putting it first by reducing the rate of 0.25% in this budget. It will return to lower after one year because we're going to legalize a one-way reduction of 0.5%. The insurance bill went to the highest level of 8.65 percent, and it stands to 6.85% this year. Now it should be reduced by another 0.5%. So it is incorrect that the price has not been dropped. It's really amazing how little people are going to do with consciousness, I'd like to say, about the magnitude of what they've gone up to finance the cost. They've gone up since 2010. If we just look at improvements for micro-energy pensioners and sensibilities, just these two teams, there are some 80 billion actual increases in eight years. [[The president calls.]] Then people come up here repeatedly and say, "Those that are due for the price do not change. ' That's not true. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u46	A respectable president. In the previous year, we received an analysis of how much a person's discount has gone through pay development. This is the first step toward that correction. This is where we raise the character discount by 10 billion. It's the first team. I'll just finish the second, too. There we expect the fishing rate to decline, not about 3 billion, but about 1 billion, going into smaller and medium - sized productions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u47	Mr. President. Carbon costs are a payment of a kind of positive community service and a shaper for partial environmental protection. There's a 10% increase here and aim for an increase in the rate of pay in terms of energy exchange and more. The current rate of carbon dioxide, which is less than 6 billion k., has been used in a wide variety of projects, ranging from carbon binding to environmental progress. I believe it is very important that members of Congress support this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u48	A respectable president. In a world that increases oil prices by a few dollars, the driving of the people of the country does not have to be a major influence. This is, therefore, merely a new tax, an increase in the budget for those who must get their way, as noted earlier in the discussion, especially for the inhabitants of the country, and a relative gain from income - rich people. It's actually a sort of nose tax, for everyone has to get on his way, and most people do it in their own car. It's strange, therefore, that men who have described themselves as socialists, like whatnot. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé and the highest. Secretary of the budget, to support the tax that is particularly related to the low income. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u49	Mr. President. This dissociation is making changes to various teams, including those called disability and the affairs of disabled persons. In the community, some have recently discussed how much increase is expected to be ablaze with these funds. However, it is actually being suggested that contributions to disability be reduced by 5 billion. Mr. President. I can't figure out how to say anything in this proposal from what it's about. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví the son of Gunnarsson. I can't support the loss of contributions to disability. There's no way. So I'll vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u50	A respectable president. That came out well in the discussion, and when I explained my changes, but the amount of money that is here, there are unexplained financial requests of the government, i.e. The government claims to want 5 billion in the matter of disability and in the affairs of disabled people, but does not say what they're going to use. So we in Pirates simply remove these documents and then give them back. [[Up front.]] This is one half our proposal. [[Up front.]] We then suggest a change of 7.6 billion to this precise field of subjects for decommissioning a dollar to a dollar's degree. So it has to be taken into account by both sides. What this is is is, of course, unexplained financial requests made by the government that, of course, the government is not to receive.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u51	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Steinunn Árnadóttir Adjoin for asking about this, because it is very important that we make it clear that we are not suggesting a loss of 5 billion donations for microbubbles. What we're suggesting, however, is that if the Ministers don't explain to us what they're going to use, they don't get the resources they want from the council. We have a clear demand to know, and we are not going to provide any blindly and unknow what they're going to do. That's what's going on.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u52	A respectable president. This is a budget for the Allegorium agent for OPCAT projects, or for torture, and budgets for Public Reexamination, which have been overscheduled, with a total of 43.2 million missing for Government Review to support that institution. These are very important institutions for us Generals where they are actually our authority against those we are to monitor, i.e. The Executive Director, so we're not supposed to exploit these institutions on these budgets.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u53	Mr. President. This is a suggestion of some 400 million. K. An aid marked by ears is UNICEF's relief aid for children in the Yemen, who are now experiencing the global catastrophes that have been unable to handle. Of course, no children should have to endure such calamities. Our future on earth depends on the responsibility we have in our hands, especially the richest nations. That's where we have to work together. Iceland is the 11th richest country in the world, but it is not just a part of developing cooperation with what is proposed by the United Nations. However, rather than many others, we should appreciate the importance of helping people to assist one another because we accepted strength from the United Nations Development Fund to 1976.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u54	Mr. President. This proposal is about to increase the drug - control budget and start a fight against social security. The drug problem is one of the most serious and difficult things in society. More powerful drugs have taken root in this country than in the past, and we plan to raise money to the customs manager by 100 million to promote international drug control. We would also like to promote the challenge of social security, but there is a high level of social damage in the Icelandic economy and are more likely to result in tens of billions of dollars. Due to the identification number. The proposals are to increase the budget to the head of the state tax by 60 million and to the tax investigator by 60 million.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u55	A respectable president. Three doors on the way here. That's 55 million. K. to the head of the tax and the head of the tax research program where tax fraud is being monitored and then to the worker. So I suggest, given the problems we've seen in the media and elsewhere in the work hall, that people support this proposal. But also, as with a broad report on the research of Iceland's property in a foreign country, it is definitely necessary to handle tax fraud a little more.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u56	A respectable president. This is a financial contribution to national records to enable them to register more than two genders.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u57	Mr. President. I'd like to draw attention to this change in plans for the greater part of the Council. If the proposal is considered, it seems that the government will set 56 million. K. Investigating scientific and competitive funds in research. This presentation is misleading because if we look at what's behind the motion, we'll find that here is a flat and illogical cut in scientific and competitive funds in studies of less than 150 million. K. But it's 200 billion in return. K. In; but they come only for reassessment of the crown's gangs, which, of course, melts everything. Just look at this in your own committee party. The big issue here is that between discussions, more parts of VG and advance and the independent category of science and competitive funds in research are to be paid 150 million. K. less than was the time the bill was introduced two months ago. Mr. President. This makes me feel very peculiar and strange, political messages.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u58	A respectable president. I welcome the emphasis on innovation and evolution, which, in contrast with what has been presented in the case of some of the people here, is made clear in these laws. This is where we propose the roof of a new creation and development scholarship, i.e. The amount will be increased by 300 million. K. into 600 million. K. We'll increase that about $1 billion. It's to be welcomed. All fair people do what speaks of the importance of innovation and evolution. This has brought great happiness to the sector. Therefore, I especially rejoice that the government is moving forward in this field.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u59	Mr. President. During the long and unprecedented economic growth of the past few years, the state has completely plundered the infrastructure with the growing number of tourists, and this has not been enough to pay no expense to tourists. Farmers have not been able to earn enough money because of the millions of tourists here, but this has called for a large investment for them. Civil authorities have called for fair action, especially the rural members of the Independence Party, which must now support us in this matter. The Conspiracy, however, contributes to the host's balance of 1.3 billion, which runs to a rural community altogether.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u60	The president asks why. A senator running back fast and votes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u61	I thought I already did.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u62	I haven't seen that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u63	Mr. President. This proposal goes on to increase the budget for the elderly'home nursing and home service. The list of waitings for a nursing facility for the elderly has been greatly increased, and a surgeon's office has expressed concern over the situation. In addition, waiting time has increased. In September 411 people waited on average for their medical care. The increase in national waiting lists is 20%. Those who wait at home often experience feelings of insecurity and distress. Even those waiting in the hospital feel preconceived and cornered. It has a significant effect on people's quality of life. The middle class places great emphasis on dealing with the problem. The most effective and fastest way to improve this situation, according to the surgeon general, is to promote home - care services, home care, and well - being of the elderly. The Central Party is putting together a requisition of the budget bill for a special interest in this case group of up to 200 million. K.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u64	V.E.G. President. The waiting lists of nurses keep increasing. We Middle-class people don't want Grandpa and my grandmother waiting longer than it's necessary. That is why we suggest that our rural society receive this money, this financial means, so that older people who live at home can be treated more effectively, waiting for space and making it easier for them to live. In view of a number of dwindling advertisements from last year, I believe that the head of the advance party and his people support the Middle Party in this justice business and I can't believe it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u65	Mr. President. This is our suggestion in the United States about 800 million. K. A contribution to the police to increase the number of police officers. Sadly, since five years ago the Independence Party received key keys at the Ministry of Justice, there is a masquerade of law enforcement. A U.S. Marshal has said that 1 billion people are short to get a number of police officers for what was 10 years ago. Mr. President. It is not unusual for police officers to do 100 overtime hours each month to serve us as citizens of the country. We must do better for ourselves, for the safety of our citizens, as well as for the security of the laws that are at work fully and with our heart in order to save us. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u66	A respectable president. There are now few who have spoken as much about the extra surveillance of police and Piratar activities. That is because we are generally Greek in power. The police have a special situation that allows her to exercise physical authority in her work, and they need that authority. Therefore, monitoring is important. In direct relation to it, it is very important, indeed, to finance the law enforcement in such a way that there are no people, because when people suffer, police officers in many situations are more likely to be forced to use the resources they could have avoided if they had been enough. It's a key, not just for civil law enforcement, but for the fact that police conduct is all right, that law enforcement is well enough to control all the human beings needed. I'll say yes to this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u67	A respectable president. This is yet another addition to a multi-annual plan for Pirates'surveillance and combating a labor trader. This is a financial contribution to the police on this aspect of the struggle against the labor trade. But also, we have new proposals to contribute funds to the governor, the police and the labour agency for this initiative.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u68	A respectable president. This is where the government has spoken and south regarding the legal rights to the police. One smaller section suggests an increase of 800 million as other smaller items seem to support, although that is illogical suggestions, but it suggests another suggestion of 11 million. K. increase to law enforcement. Thus, despite the presence of figures, it is strongly claimed by the opposition that money is missing to the police. There have been reports of a dramatic increase in government funds over the past few years, and especially in this year, with budgets increasing by well over a billion over a year, and no budgets to the police services have been reduced. I'm referring to these numbers in a rough way: a high score of 850 million. K. increase to border security, over 400 billion. K. increase of funds to promote the police in connection with general law enforcement monitoring in connection with the rise of tourists, 80 billion. K. Because of organized crime, 30 million. K. ... fora moneybag. That's a long way to count. Of course, these funds go to the growing number of police officers and police workers on a wide scale. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u69	A respectable president. This is a permanent increase to the National Reservation to further the basic operation of the National Relation Guard. Many projects there are, as we have seen this year, and are not supported, so please join.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u70	A respectable president. This is the granting of the Persian protection so that she can perform the tasks that have been lost to her because of her new personal protection laws. The reasons and importance of this legislature are very high, and there is concern that Persian protection is not better equipped and made to enforce that law, so I would kindly ask for support.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u71	Mr. President. Here's a group of Pirata members suggest a ban on the foreigners'rights. In fact, this group of people needs to be kept in line with what is actually wrong, with the minister of justice and the alien authorities in general, including the rest of the Christian congregation. justified his vicious exodus against so - called unfounded applications for international protection by the limited amount of funds in this group of languages. That they should be more useful to those members who apply for international protection that really need it. This purpose of the government has been successful. The number of so - called unfounded applications has declined substantially. We suggest that those who are considered by the government to be legitimate candidates for international protection get at least the resources the government said they should do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u72	A respectable president. For any reason, the importance of improving the effectiveness of the National Institutes of Iceland and the granting of resources to applicants for any reason. However, it does not seem that the Generals will be prepared to give the money needed to do so without compromising the rights and possibilities of people who are applying for shelter for any reason, whether they are trustees or anyone else. If we want a more efficient system, we should do so by providing the funds needed to have an efficient system. The danger is, and it's been for years trying to change the rules so it's easier to handle these matters, and usually it means that the answer will be no, looks to me. I have neither the time nor probably the patience of members of Congress to review why that is a bad idea for us and bad results for us as national and economic systems. However, increasing efficiency on the basis of efficiency requires that this class be well financed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u73	Mr. President. Here it is being suggested that money be transferred from a Foreign Institute to a budget that turns to the trustees. Is this done with the intention of increasing the number of employees working in the provisional applications? It is very important for this group of people to do good and efficient work, and I support that proposal. But I would like to point out that I am going to need to see also how it is possible to strengthen the process for those who process to correct the subject in this country. I think it's the next thing we need to consider, and I hope we can take it later.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u74	Mr. President. Here we are discussing the changes made by the United States, which contributes 2 billion to the exercise of transport on grounds. Our operating system is one of the infrastructures that have been greatly neglected in recent years and where I sit. The Environment and Transport Committee is quite clear that we must do much better than we have had in front of us on budgets because people have to be able to get somewhere safe in order to do their work. People must be able to move from place to place to study, to place their children in the scattered regions, and even more so here on the southwest corner, where the safety of road users is seriously lacking. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u75	I come up here again because I don't know why they're making almost 550 million. K. a cut-off in this category at the same time as we on the Environment and Transport Committee is considering a transport strategy that almost all are unhappy with. Almost everyone who's set up the committee. Because it needs to be done much better. How does the government respond to the distress call that comes from every corner of the country? Yes, with a lower budget for this suit. It's completely incomprehensible and, of course, I won't vote for this vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u76	Mr. President. This government now does very good things on transportation. Transport contributions have increased since the last budget of 14% and the previous budget of this government increased between 10%. The financial program estimates an increase of 5 billion for the next three years each year. Of course, the projects are enough. We all know this, and a great expansion of our need. But we are on the way to strengthen the infrastructure, and we know that transportation is the basis for a wide and wide area around the country. Of course, we need to examine all possibilities in order to try to get even more funding to speed up and speed things up. I don't think it's possible to do better than we do now unless we just continue to top ourselves in what we've been doing in the last two budgets of this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u77	So it's cutting them down?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u78	V.E.G. President. We have an ambitious transport plan here. For the first time, it is put forward to 5 and 15 years, and for the first time for a very long time, if ever, it is a treasure. We're talking about a significant improvement, about 39 billion, and an increase between 5 and 6 billion from last year. Transport projects are huge, and they call for concerted efforts to achieve success and to get us to an acceptable location. The main objectives are to facilitate better, more efficient, safer and environmental transport, strengthening positive development. It is my firm belief that the nation's best investment to the future is to invest in transport workers. Thus we will be able to build the whole country, the new opportunities that will come. I'm celebrating this donation, and the government has spoken clearly: We're focusing on infrastructure.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u79	Mr. President. It's not always obvious which number is under. Communication is saying that it has a highly ambitious rural program. In some parts of the country, fiber - optic development is about to be completed, which is of enormous importance in these areas. There's a slight straggler in here. But this is the kind of issue that really shows what the government is thinking about in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u80	Mr. President. The important energy exchange is under here, too. We have an actual expansion in this area of 4.5 billion. Things are involved in energy exchange, this immensely important class, which is characterized by, as everyone knows, a wide variety of solutions. This is one of the good - looking factors involved and contributes to the progress of this technology.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u81	Mr. President. This proposal turns toward increasing levels in the Contestation Organization by two. I talked to them about a year ago. As the situation is now, they pay with their fines, they pay for their employees, and they pick them up. So the people and members of Congress who vote for this proposal realized what is involved is a lack of competition in the country that a competitive organization could do better if it had more money. She has much good suggestions so that she can do her part better. What it costs the people in the warehouse they pay in the store is as much as the higher value tax level. The value of consumers'prices in the country due to lack of competition is 2,425 percent. By increasing the number of staff at a Contestant Institute, which has long been paid for their employees, we do nothing but increase competition and lower prices. And guess what! If we keep track of The Economist this week, this is exactly what they call the necessary steps to save capitalism. So I'm all right men have to vote with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u82	A respectable president. I have every reason to rejoice at the breakthroughs involved in large - scale contributions to the environment that give us the opportunity to improve the protection of natural resources, to reduce carbon emissions, to bind carbons, to build crops and land - healing resources, to protect soils and other things. It also includes large increases in monitoring contributions and research that are both important for climate change work, adaptation to climate change, and continuing to practice traditional and new resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u83	Mr. President. The fact that there are a number of climate issues, such as forestry and land transplants, is a significant blow at the same time: a greater proportion of legal committees are cutting down debates to nature protection, forestry, and land healings without any explanation. It has rarely been so important to increase support to this group of paintings. As the IPCC report on the state of climate in the world says, it is getting too late to react when our future is really at stake. Then there is the cutoff that is suggested here, especially tragic.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u84	Mr. President. The environment here receives about 2 billion dollars. extra money. That's what continues to take place. It goes to total carbon binding. True, deforestation is taking place, but the overall increase is about 2 billion. In one year, the government has added twice to this important group of subjects. This is in accordance with the climate action programme, which should be aimed according to the use of experience, progress and research. So there are green prints on this money, and it's fine.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u85	Mr. President. During 2012, legal cultural funds, national cultural contracts, and complete teams were employed to receive applications and provide them with individuals and partners. In the past, a financial committee had advertised applications for financial contributions and had supplied them at their meetings. That arrangement was severely critical. This change was made in the spirit of transparency and needs analysis, and the application form was taken from the General web. Change the terms we now vote for we can't support in the Union, not because the projects are not fine, but because they, and only those who have access to members of Congress, have a chance to get special funding from a financial committee of this kind. It is, we have a reputation for such things; utterly unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u86	Mr. President. This may not be the case with the largest adjustment proposal, but it is a very important step. Here's a bid for 300 million. K. Slipping into a TV fund that strengthens the game. That amount does not mean anything. It's a lot for the article. In addition, the Kingdom will benefit from this injection, resulting in the return of each dollar in the Kingdom box. Public funds often provide the premium for drawing funding from funds from abroad, but because of lack of funds, e.g. recordings on Fris 2 and other opportunities may not even exist. Special encouragement has been received from the film directors Associations, The Union of Icelandic filmmakers, the Filmmakers' Society, and the Filmmakers'partner to support this proposal. So I want to pray. Councilmen to vote for their convictions, not according to the Minister's Office.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u87	A respectable president. There has been a tremendous growth in films and shows in Iceland. Governments have been very supportive of this fund, and in just four years, donations have increased by 71%, i.e. less than 600 million. K. ... over 1 billion. It is an enormous increase, resulting in the international recognition and award of Icelandic films and projects. Of course, we are very proud of it. What now stands before us in the Ministry of Education and Culture is that we are molding movie policy to the year 2030. It will give us special attention to the change that has taken place that we are increasingly producing TV programs. It's going to be very exciting to watch what this group does, and I'm putting high hopes in the future movie dating in Iceland. We have certainly done very well. But, in my opinion, we need to be careful, not making a suggestion at the last minute, but doing it in a good way with the movie industry and the showmaking in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u88	A respectable president. I'm tempted to stretch out a little bit to remind me of two little factors that are under the fact that we're floating through all these numbers and this text with no sense at all and remember what we're doing. We're in this team, we're even in it. suggest 400 million. K. a contribution to the publication of Icelandic books, a very important cultural case, and we are suggesting to finance a children's culture fund about 100 million. K. In the coming year, the first out of five years, according to a resolution we agreed on most of the weather on the Field in the summer. It is an important step here that the day after the international baby rights, we contribute 100 million dollars. K. in the fund to strengthen children for active participation in culture, in art, design, and innovation to allow their voices to be heard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u89	A respectable president. First, I want to say the word with the question. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson and I believe his fine speech was all the same with this case that we vote for now, as before. This is about cultural wealth. It's about inside, so I'll say again, about the inside of Icelandic culture. It's about preserving the context of Icelandic culture. This is a national agreement, and hopefully it will lead to a reversal of the negative development of a smaller reading in recent years and adapting the difficult business environment that has been prepared by the Icelandic edition. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u90	Mr. President. The Group of Groups contributes to 400 million. K. increase in funds for high school to cope with their poor situation. It is particularly interesting that at the same time as the highest. A minister has repeatedly announced a big educational campaign is proposed to cut down money for high school, one of the few topic areas that have a direct decrease in financial contributions. We want to respond to it, for the high school leaders speak of the simply stabilising limits of endurance, especially in this inexhaustible goodness we enjoy today at the highest rate. Minister, president of the forward party. We can do better than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u91	Mr. President. The factor we vote for is to increase contributions to students by 180 million. K. In fact, money is being returned to the system since high school was cut short, so the shortcut would never lead to reducing donations to each student in school. I'm on it. I also want to use this opportunity to celebrate the decision to hire outsiders and to assign them to make an assessment of the effects of three years' exposure to school. I think we as a community need that assessment to know what these changes have meant for us. [[The president calls.]] As I say, I support the proposal in the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u92	A respectable president. We're very proud of our education policy, this government. The fact is, a raise in each student's high school education is growing by 12%. The reduction has no effect on us taking money from high school. I don't know that college champions have reached the limit of endurance. I'm meeting with them on a regular basis. A respectable president. I'd like to mention that we're doing some very exciting, fun things at high school. We're attacking the roots of our departure. We have special emphasis on children with a different language than English, because their demise is one of the greatest. We have a special focus on industry, work and working, and for the first time, we'll see an increase in years between these articles. We're proud of our education policy. Yes, a respectable president. We're in a big hurry.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u93	Mr. President. We are impressed that we face social changes that will have an amazing impact on our lives as well as on our activities. The best way to meet them is to improve and expand your education. So have many of us. The college, on the other hand, receives half as much money as was promised in a financial program. It is difficult to see the grandest. Secretary of education repeatedly speaks of the taking place in academic affairs. We will, contrary to what she has said, not reach OECD 2020; there is a possibility. We need to increase the money in order to get it. That's why the Conspiracy proposes a proposal of about 1 billion to the university. And it must be accepted by anyone who has held the talks about the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u94	Mr. President. This proposal will be published by postponing productions with The House of Iceland and the 800 million saved there will be used to improve microplicity, the least allowed in this community, the damage the government has brought to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u95	A respectable president. It's very interesting to sit in this vote. Sometimes I have to think that now we're talking about politics and telling her that she needs to be facts, that we have to talk about things the way they are. The fact is, we're going to raise money to the university level by 5.2%. Why is this so? People, some of them in here, don't they realize that? I would also like to mention that after this government began, there have been billions more at the university. How was it that the headmasters of the university especially welcomed these laws? That is because this government is fulfilling its promises. We're making a lot of money to the university. That's a fact. I'd really appreciate it if we had what we had. Senators in this room who would take this into account because I think it's very healthy to do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u96	A respectable president. It is a joy to find an average of OECD donated to the university in 2020 and to ensure the future competitiveness of Iceland. But 2020 will be fun in other ways because of the goal of setting up new student loans. There'll be quite a new world for students if they're successful. If I have 30 seconds left behind, Mr. President, I'd like to save myself some of the steps and mention the nursery because it's transpired through the education of the budgets for the action to take, as the Minister mentioned earlier, children and students with other mother languages than Icelandic children of foreign origin. This is of utmost importance because for a long time the first person lives in a building. In order for us to avoid going to high school, we need to go to high school and high school. We need to keep this up - to - date and everywhere we can so that all who move here can enjoy themselves as much in the community. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u97	Mr. President. It's about making money for the university. No one has claimed that it was not added here. The call was that there was not enough improvement. That's exactly wrong. Here's a hit. A senator and one of the highest. A minister came up, and repeatedly talked about it, last of all. A senator now, that we would achieve the objective of OECD 2020. We simply will not. The Group of Group members has contacted OECD specialists and reviewed the conditions of 2014, considering the number of students in terms of prices, we would achieve these goals, but then four years have passed since then. The number of students has increased, and many things have happened. We're not gonna make it 2020, the highest. Minister, but let's try to figure it out together.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u98	Mr. President. Under these factors, a special contribution is being made to the newly formed public university of Flattune, which is taking its first steps in this fall and has been made with the efficiency and strength of powerful people. People of all ages are greatly increased in their choice of learning. We know the LungA of Seyster, who also gets money. This will strengthen and strengthen the development of education. There is also an increased support for e.g. Western Educational Center and the East Bridge in the East We know that the activities of ever - increasing education stations are of enormous importance around the country. We need to examine the overall context of the activities of these stations and how we can strengthen them for the future and that there is a good equality between them, anywhere in the country. They matter in every context.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u99	Mr. President. The government spends a lot of time in the discussion, and it doesn't detract, saying that they contribute much to the health - care system. During the discussion, everything, infrastructure, concrete construction, and business ventures are fraught up, i.e. To serve day by day. The staff and the executives are still waiting for Miss Stórsókn Bank on the door. The two Great Hospitals, Lands Hospital, and the Hospital in Akureyri, are already in trouble and have announced difficulties by the end of the year. At one land hospital, there is a peak of some 2 billion by the end of the year. That's where they're pulling back. It's not a fetch. I say no to the issue of government, but yes to the Union's new proposals.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u100	A respectable president. If I had the magazine as good as any. Brjánsson I would just read the same speech, and it's very similar. It's for the same thing. Perhaps the government doesn't have 2 million, so we try 1.6. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u101	Mr. President. It's just the amount the National Hospital has said is missing. Year after year. We know what that has been like. We've got the reports from McKinsey and Land Hospital. We've got what happened in the crash, the cut-off that was there. That may have been understandable, but then during the upcoming years under the top. The governments of the Sigmunds of Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, and then, in recent years, have not been guaranteed. The hospital has not yet received all the injections he needs. This is so clear. We've had it under control here in a few hours. The only real thing that happened was when doctors started a strike for the first time in history. Then a band stood up that is in the government right now and said it had to be fixed. This is part of the disappointment I have had in the case of the highest Svandís of Svavarsdóttir. Secretary of health. It does many other good things, and I haven't left my support for her in health matters, and I think she will be able to do good things. But the failure to secure the land hospital is overwhelmingly disappointing. [[The president calls.]] This proposal is available. This proposal has been offered. This is what the Landspians have told them why. I would like to hear from a health minister: Why is it not certain that the Landspians say he needs a business? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u102	A respectable president. The funds discussed here are a major source of joy for health care. The increase in the seminar is 9.5 billion from the current year and is added in all aspects of the ministry. Some of the points are out of the picture. New construction of the Land Hospital, long time. The chemistry of the health care unit. The funding of a mental - health program and the financial support of a patient's voting initiative, which is a special matter of justice, are about recovery to health care independent of the economy. It's not just a matter of justice, it's also a fool's business. According to the World Health Organization, we have one of the most important issues we can face in order to fight poverty in the world. These budgets are covered by health issues and are at the top of the work list of the government. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u103	V.E.G. President. This is a delay in the construction of a new national hospital on Ring Road, which may not have lay so hard behind everything. But we in the Middle East feel it is proper that time will be used, first to slow down, to make real application of locals, and to take advantage of opportunities. Then there can be an ever - increasing carbon binding by shoveling into the hole again as time goes on, and 19 shovels are now gathering dust in the palaces of the Land Hospital. Let us use the opportunity now to make real independent statistical analysis and to build a national hospital in a new and better place.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u104	Mr. President. It was a joyful time when a large number of shovels were taken off October 13, the last year to the new section of the Land Hospital. This will be done through the administration of all medical care in the country for the better. Here's 2nd. 5.7 billion dollars are to be expected. to build up the treatment core next year. It has been criticized that discussions are cut down to 2.5 billion dollars. There is an explanation. It is explained that in this year, there was a delay of five months in the development of road repairs and soil work. This delay will change a build-up in the next year, but this will not change the treatment core to 2024 as planned. It's very important, I'm especially glad because we really need a new national hospital. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u105	Mr. President. There is a very serious situation in the national health institutions. The financial bill does not meet that challenge or that of changing the options of much of it. For example, 130 million are missing. K. to the Vestafjörður Institute of Health. It is similar with the National, Northern, and Eastern Institutes of Health. The health institutions of Southland and the South are now holding in over 208 million, each of them. During the past few years, population growth in the South has been huge. During the past three years, a 22% increase has been observed in Southnes. We're not going to fail on the budget bill. Of course, such an increase must require adjustments and additional financial contributions. Our proposal in the United States is just to deal with this problem of the founders in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u106	Mr. President. During our restoration, we have been rather conservative in raising expenses and making budgets. We will offer some suggestions between 2 and 3. ... but they will be very moderate and will be fully funded, normal. There is, however, a problem that the majority of the government groups have not solved, i.e. The major problem in medical institutions in the country. It's a project that cannot be held, and we have to meet the challenges of health care clinics and clinics in the country. That's why I'm saying yes to these matters. It is important to listen to the voices coming from health care professionals in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u107	Mr. President. In recent years, health - care services have stopped in the region around the country. There's no sign of turning around on this bill. This is true not only of the legal services provided by institutions but also of maintenance and restoration of facilities and equipment. Of course, health care is our basic service. This gives us special thought. The service today is fragile. Promises are made, but action is not required. The staff are busy. They're not waiting for Miss Superstitution to come over. They wait for the Advertisement, but they are anxious that there may be some other companion who often knocks on the door during this time of year.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u108	Mr. President. All of us are concerned with the hospital service in the country. The role of these institutions in urbanity will soon be overrated. It is, therefore, a joy to see that the fund is now being added to the network of these institutions, which is a permanent change and is being added to the increase added to the last budget. The task of these institutions as the first site of a large part of the country is strengthened by improved diagnostic techniques, as expected in the modified section. With new health policies, the work of these institutions will be better defined and their interaction, health care, specialist services, and services of the larger hospitals will be determined.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u109	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with what a financial committee named at a committee party. It states that the committee considers the operating grounds of the regional hospitals to be tight. A minister has room in museum teams to lighten up with the institutions. A respectable president. It is important to review the roles, tasks, and duties of hospitals with partners. Reviewing account base, hospital funding, population growth, number of tourists, and funding the institutions at their local level and at the level of what is booked in a five-year financial program.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u110	Mr. President. This is just not enough for health care in the country. And now the inhabitants of the country shall think of a course in which they are lowering the price of the hunt. Do you know what the national priorities are about the reduction in hunting costs, according to a Gallup poll? The national priority order for reduction of hunting costs is 1.4 or 1.6, while the priorities for all the government groups and the national region are around 77, against 1.4. The billions who were being reduced enough fishing costs - what were they? 3 billion? But there's still 800 million missing. K. for operating health services in the country. So every time people go to health care in the country next year, the country should think that it was more important to reduce the cost of fishing and to keep them well in bed than to ensure management of health care. This is something you're stuck with.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u111	Mr. President. The central category is putting together an adjustment proposal to the budget for a special budget of 70 million. K. to the national health care unit to improve the health of the elderly. The case is urgent, in the opinion of a surgeon, and it is part of dealing with emergency problems due to waiting lists for nursing homes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u112	Mr. President. As we have heard many times, health care should be the first stop in the medical system. There is an increase of about 10% between years or nearly 2.5 billion to this year's increase. 650 million. K. is added for mental health reasons and 400 million. K. to reduce patient costs in addition to 500 million. which was submitted to this year. The first stages of the screening of colon cancer will be introduced and included in an important prophylaxis program. We've got health support here so much less so under the leadership of the left green. It matters who is in charge. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u113	Mr. President. The United States suggests that 1 billion contributes to the management of nursing homes in the country and that this amount is added to the 300 billion. K. who are in charge, and who are confident that they are in the business. You see, the organization of the operators has requested 1,500 million. At least, but with this change, there is a requirement for something to come. The problem with this group is that his business is in so many hands. Among other things, many rural communities run a nursing home and face it by taking money from other liters, youths' leisure activities, culture, or leisure activities even the elderly. There is no justice in it where the government should pay for this. Then the manager's representatives have talked about literally cutting down meat on Sundays. Well, then guess what. A body of elders agrees that, in the fullest sense, there will then be an incision?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u114	Mr. President. This is a change in the proposal for increased funds to the nursing home. The adjustment proposal for the majority corresponds to only one fifth of what the nursing home requested. The situation in nursing homes is serious. As noted above, nurses have even been concerned about the quality of their homes. Mr. President. Are we really there, when these are the worries set up for a financial committee? These are not the words of the government. These are the words of the head of the nursing homes. Iceland is the 11th richest country in the world. Just yesterday, the head of the advance party and minister of this government said we were in a state of unfashionable goodness. So how is it, Mr. President, that we can do no better when it comes to serving as self - approved as nursing homes? There's no offense here, topv. Secretary of health. Mr. President. Why can't we just listen better to those serving there? And why can't we do better with the generation that built up Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u115	Mr. President. Me and the Icelanders are getting old as a nation. Therefore, waiting lists are increasing in this area and it seems that the government has only a fashion in trying to help build a waiting list. That's why we'd like to protest at the Cradle. We want to look into the future. I need you to take care of this right away. That does not mean waiting and putting people on a waiting list, whether older citizens or patients or others who need to go to the public. That's why we want to go to Homeland, and that's one of our priorities, to promote and contribute to the insecurity of older citizens, those who have to go to nursing homes, as well as to get into a nursing home. That's why we say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u116	Mr. President. We hereby vote for an increase in the contribution made to the management of nursing homes. That increase is over 276 billion. K. and is to deal with the cost of an increased weight of nursing. In the Treaty of the Government, even by permission of Presidents: But other services, such as homework, daily training, and rehabilitation, will be emphasized. And it also says that there will be a big attendance at the construction of new nurses. Next year, there will be nearly 200 new nurses in the capital area. That's a 162 - space increase from the present level. During the next few years, there are nearly 200 more spaces around the country, including in the capital area. This is finally going into action for so long as it has been called after. The changes we make on donations are one step in improving the basis for this vital aspect of aging service. I trust we'll make it up to you in the next few years.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u117	A respectable president. Alcoholism, alcoholism, is a national crisis. The shortest family in the land that has not experienced some tragedy of this disease. FEW has played a very important role in helping and helping people spiritually for decades. Recently, youths have been undernourished with unflinching marketing of narcotics and deadly analgesics. Our proposal here is an attempt to promote treatment and meet this and eliminate the list of waitings. The government puts only half of what has been requested by the U.S.A. We want to meet these needs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u118	Mr. President. It's not long since we were here, including the highest. Secretary of the budget and the highest. Social Minister, at the University Academy concert to sponsor the U.S.A. All of us realize that both those at the concert and those who've been watching it have to do more than just take the step announced by the government groups. That is why it is important for us to face the challenge of an Icelandic society. He's now. We know that even more young people take their own lives. because they don't get the services and care. That's why we have to go on this now. I find it hard to watch the board as it looks now, more red than green. I would've wanted to see her all green. We'll say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u119	Mr. President. A dangerous drug problem confronts the population and is spoken of as an epidemic in this regard. Many people, especially the younger generation, have suffered tragic consequences in far too many cases. The people want to respond by meeting the credible wishes of the U.S.A. for additional donations so that the problem can be handled by the most skilled staff in the clinics and treatment homes of the organization.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u120	V.E.G. President. The Watch Tower of Vogi has been very much discussed in the Council of the United States during the winter, this fall. The reality of the matter is that the list of waitings has been about 600 people, but it has reached 620 people today. This is so serious. I am very happy, though, that a legal committee has put money in this suit. Yet, that is not enough because there is a need between 250 million and 300 million. K. So I encourage Congress to vote with this proposal. Since there was now a sense of urgency here, it can be said that there is a need now.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u121	V.E.G. President. Here's a similar suggestion upstairs, just a little bit more than the last one. Alcoholism is a very serious illness. The sufferer may not always be ready to seek help. Why do I say that? I'm saying this because it's been said that the lists need to be professional, but no one wants to go into the Gug, he's going to do it with an urgent need. It is often when the person is ready, but then that window is very small, so you need to grab the patient as soon as he asks for help, since an active alcoholic is very quick to change his mind in these materials. This is so serious.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u122	Mr. President. Just to reiterate, this is the third time the government groups have the opportunity to support exactly this operation. I want to say all the words. paritaprevir The Sigurður of Páll Jónsson's son earlier concerning the vital activity that has already taken place. Now is the third chance for the government parties to say yes to this important matter. The need is now. The need is urgent. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u123	A respectable president. We've been talking a lot about microchip markets and equipment. They are boring, and their opportunities for involvement in society are made difficult and impossible in many cases. We'd like to loosen the restraints that have been hard-collared. Increasing well - being results in a far greater improvement in quality of life and more energy, both indirect and direct. The company wants to cut the knots, we'll speed up the change, and we'll make a 4 billion-dollar adjustment proposal. I'm saying yes, of course.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u124	A respectable president. I support this proposal to raise this by 4 billion. I just want to mention it because we often talk about billions of dollars about social security, how many times we mention billions when it comes to paying taxes. It is sometimes quite costly to hear the discussion around here that it is far too expensive to do something about the disability and the elderly in the social security system, but then when it comes to tax declines, it is not easy to reduce the income of the state's budget by more, more billions. I find the irony very interesting. I just thought it was proper to mention it so that people would be prepared to see billions when it comes to such large systems. We should expect to see billions of taxes, that's a big system. The global security system is a big system. It sometimes takes a lot of money to fix it. It's important to do so. We can do it. That's why I support this suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u125	Mr. President. Here is an important effort to correct the wrong priorities of the government. This is a suggestion that includes correcting the priorities of the government. The government's priorities are to reduce contributions to older citizens and disability. That's why we'd like to protest at Resurrection. That's why we support this motion from the Central Party. In particular, I would like to object that it is based on the fact that a team, an accountant group, in relation to the matters of disability, has not finished the job, that this proposal is being held out. That's wrong. There have been repeated suggestions including: of the Team's Office for Prosperity of the Work force to improve disability from the next year onward. We want to keep what was promised. That's why we're saying yes to the Proposition.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u126	V.E.G. President. The poorest people in Iceland are still waiting for justice by order of the Government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. The government has met microchip with a bat and a yellow root. The yellow root is that they get compensation, but the bat is that they have to accept an unprepared job assessment. It hasn't been handled by a peasant, and now souped by it and received this delightful Christmas gift from the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. You're right. It's a matter of who's in charge. Theoreticians of this land are now learning that it is important. They still have to wait for the righteousness they were promised because social security ministers and their colleagues have not done their work as the law expects. There is no guarantee that this work will be done in the spring months as foretold. So the desperate still have to wait for justice because of the inactivity of the state of Katrín's Jakobsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u127	I say yes to this proposal, because I find it obvious that the promise made about 4 billion next year should simply take effect from January 1, 2018. It is an incentive for the government to complete this case, regardless of when the work programme will be ready. The tunnel was completely heard, as the target of survival is just below 1%, that if it was delayed by two months or something in order to get the job performance into the system and accept the changes, it would save the target of survival, in order to provide the government's delivery criteria again. This should definitely apply from January 1 to the fact that the promise given to them cannot be smoldered. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u128	Mr. President. The government had promised microorganisms that they would get 4 billion into this suit. It was promised by the contributions of this budget bill. This money exists. There are other priorities. It's, for example. it is possible to avoid lowering the cost of $3 billion - possibly for those who have enough between their hands. [[They've been deleted...]] It is all right to keep your word to people who have nothing. These people always have to wait. We have repeatedly suggested that although this may be done at any time during the second part of the year or third or whenever the proposals will be ready, this can be valid from January 1. Fair enough. It is righteous to let this apply since January 1. [[The president calls.]] I challenge the senators to vote according to their convictions. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u129	A respectable president. I'll take that suggestion and say yes to it. I don't remember the time when the social security system was not being revised. So if we're always going to let some global reexamination that is important keep us from making small changes, the desperate will have to wait forever because there will always be some review of the social security system. This is simply the vast, complex, and complex system, that, even though changes are made, such as bringing about an overall assessment or whatever, while I remember it, we can't let disability wait for years before we finish some comprehensive reexamination to keep a promise, for example. It's not working. I second the motion and say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u130	Mr. President. In the government covenant, we may be able to discern the priority for the poor. They are not in the first chapter of Athlellis'strengthening, they are not in the second chapter of a strong community, where health matters are first important, education. Then there's economics, then something, and then finally equality, and there, somewhere in the third subsection, is spoken of social security and welfare and disability. If we look at who are voters, who prefers, of those who earn less than 250. K. In a month, which is usually micromask, we see that they do not choose left green and left green. There are more people who prefer left greens who make more than 1.5 million each month, 11%, than those who weigh less than 250. K. a month, which is only 9%. If we look at the advance party, it is similar. Then we look at the Independence Party, that's a little bit more than not much, that's the natural larger category, the Independence Party. The fact is, desperate people do not choose these groups and do not trust them. [[The president calls.]] These groups reason, " Why should we set priorities for them? ' [[The president calls.]] I'm going to hope that poor people will wake up to life because those in the board will not think about the welfare of disability compared with what we've seen in the laws we've seen. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And we'll see where their support comes from.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u131	The Senator says?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u132	The Senator says yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u133	Mr. President. Clearly, it is not possible to live up to the current language without making a comment. To make shoes for the government groups, especially the left green, does not back off on microchip because it does not prefer the group, is naturally below the dignity of the micro-organists. paritaprevir Jón Þór, son of Ólafsson. I'm just going to point something out. In the last two years, i.e. From 2017 until the next year, additional contributions are being made in the affairs of disability and disability of nearly 10 billion people. This is before the council a administrative bill that is canceling income tax from pensions. This will improve the interests of these people, the worst of all, about 500 million years. Senator. To come up here and argue that the government groups take sides on individual groups that are not good, based on some polls - there are some other than this government that do. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u134	Hv. A senator has made an explanation for his vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u135	I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u136	A respectable president. It is to be postponed in 1.1 billion for disability. I'm sorry, when Mr. Frestur comes to poverty, he takes the money and disappears. Just as he did with a crown across the crown that has been postponed for two years, there was a loss of 24 billion. What's the largest deferral ever made? Back - ups that everyone's had since 2009 except older citizens and disabilityrs. As a result, I cannot support this. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u137	President. Giving a villa order to reduce a dollar and then take part of it and to postpone who can know how long it is and to continue a group of people in poverty so badly requiring that this poverty be lifted, is only cost. There is no savings involved. Pirat and I have a suggestion to go further. It's supposed to be taken away from these impairments completely. This is an essential step for the future, for future generations, and for the lives of these people. It sucks to see that the funds that had been taken back had been made to this group of people.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u138	The Senator says?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u139	I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u140	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason spoke of it earlier that it had been a good idea when we agreed here in spring, transnationally, to stop taxes from sponsoring disability and those who are underpayers and who need help, for aid tools. Like it's a good place to go. This just worked out like a lawyer's mistake, because how in the world does anyone think they'll let someone have 100 thousand bucks and then let them pay almost 200 grand back? I say, that was 331.5 million. At a rate, not half a billion, but it seems to be in humans. There was nothing about 170 million. Could we use them to do something else, such as the FEW? But the senator says no.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u141	Mr. President. When we have three groups that are as different as those groups in the government, it is clear that there is a need for communication. One of the companies gets something, one of the party gets the other, and so on, to get the rest. There's one thing these groups have in common, that's a very low percentage of their voters who have less than 250 thousand bucks. ... ingraduated. During the third quarter of this year's year at Gallup, 5% of the candidates have less than 250.9% for the left green and 14% for the Independence Party. It's a bigger category. If we then look at the priorities in terms of state funds, a survey that Gallup did for Pirata this spring, then the priorities of the social security will be set by the decision-making agencies 17 points, it's at the bottom, so the Independence Party 21, so left green with 27. Piranha's got 34, Group of 45. This is just what voters are saying about priorities. Your clients don't put it first. [[The president calls.]] Nobody's telling me you don't listen to it. Then we'll just see how the government contract is set up. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] These are not groups that put disability first. [[The president calls.]] This is the result.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u142	The Senator says?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u143	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u144	Mr. President. Here are groups, large groups of people, living on the brink of despair from month to month. They were promised 4 billion. However, because the government had to turn its laws into a sande that was anticipated, it had to come out of its own way. What does she do? She looks over the hall and does not carry the weight of the strongest, not the second strongest, not all of us, no, she looks up the narrowest person and puts it all on. It's hard to believe. That's rude. That's not nice. I'm going to ask the government to go back to their homes and only wonder if other groups in the community could have carried these burdens? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u145	The Senator says?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u146	Yeah. [[Cryin' in the chamber of Congress]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u147	The Senator says no?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u148	I say no!
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u149	Mr. President. (b) How can we benefit from the example of the apostle Paul? No. 27 raise by 12% from the budgets of the current year. The 4 billion that have been promised for the annual increase in biofuels will be in place as promised, but next year the increase will be 2.9 billion. There's a considerable amount of money being added to the seminary, as well as an increase in payment by 3.6%. This increase is significant and should be welcomed. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u150	V.E.G. President. This senator says no. After 40 days, we looked many up into a book that says: "All that you did to one of the least of these my brothers, you did it to me. I think if I remember correctly, it would be good for them to start spraying their roast for Christmas to read those words before they begin and know if they'll be as good as before. It is prerogative, Mr. President, to attack the poorest people in Iceland, as is done here. Today, men have been given the opportunity to leave this route, but the determined will is so great that people will move on and will not be afraid to attack the park where it is the lowest. That is not to be imitated. The Senator says no.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u151	Mr. President. I'm coming up here because I'm just going to hurt the language I've been hearing when it comes to this change, that there's a minor variation. This I hear again, that more than a billion are a minor variation when it comes to making financial contributions. I don't think it's a minor anomaly. I don't think that's the case with micro-germs at all. I just wanted to keep it in place.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u152	The Senator says?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u153	The Senator says no.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u154	Mr. President. There is an adjustment proposal from the greater part of this council to reduce, notice, reduce, reduce the estimated amount of money for microbubbles over a billion. There's a drop in whites. This is literally cutting down money from what had been determined when the budget was submitted just two months ago. To me, it is a complete waste of time to explain this reduction, saying that it took time to implement system changes. We can easily make these changes work over and over again. We do it often in this room. In fact, this has been done when the salary of members of Congress has been increased. Once again, this inexhaustible kindness that the Ministers boast of will not reach insignificance. All you need to do is talk to one invalid in order to find out. Mr. President. I allow myself to make a big mistake that any invalids or their families will ever again vote for the government classes. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u155	The Senator says?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u156	I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u157	A respectable president. We had a very good discussion here at the council on Monday, on the 2nd. It's a budget bill. The accounts for this include: The system changes in preparation and funding set out for them in the budget bill for next year. Why do we need to discuss this in the context of a system change? Hv. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson came in earlier on the rate of the increase from year to year in this series of paintings. The increase in topic area 27 has increased from 42 billion to 63 billion since 2015. This increase is expected to continue and will be up to 90 billion in the year 2030, with no increase in individuals, no increase in the case category other than natural growth in these issues. There we have failed as a community. That is why we need a new system to help young people avoid falling off the job market as it is happening today. That's why we need a new system. That is why, along with the increase to the worst, we need increase. That's why I say yes to this suggestion, because we're not on our way. [[The president calls.]] We're on this mission. That's why I can say yes here tonight with a good conscience. I hope that the case will be supported by government opposition when it enters the council, fighting for these changes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u158	The Senator says yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u159	A respectable president. That's where we're agreeing to stop blocking power with taxes; the foul game that's been used for years to deceive our weakest people into taking the money they thought was coming and then being torn off in that year. It's the light story in these matters. I hope she's getting back on other issues, because there's one group here who can't own his special kicker, that's what they are. It must be the next thing we see happening, that they get to have their special possession as everyone else.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u160	Mr. President. We have good information that the interests of older citizens mentioned among them are out of harmony with the general standard of living in the country. A large group of them pull out their lives below the poverty line. There are poor people - poor people, elderly people - in Iceland. If this bill remains unchanged in the law, the buying power of the Life Insurance Institute will continue to decrease the level of pay again in the next year, as it has actually done in many recent years. Elderly people don't sit by contracts. Their terms are set here. Let's treat them decently. We need to make a change here. We need to turn around. That is why I support the Union's change proposal and challenge as many people as possible to do so. But I'm not optimistic.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u161	Mr. President. Now people have another chance to make money for the elderly who have the will, the strength, and the courage to earn money. pay, and they don't interfere with a hundred thousand dollars, without cutting his pension. The director of the Garden town, to the highest. The secretary of finance is so worried about getting paid from the social security system that it will not interfere with anything. [[Up front.]] Right on. An ordinary older citizen who has the power and ability to earn a little extra income - this matter is set before him. $1,100 million for this, the bride. That's about what it takes. Seven hundred million cans when the government has received tax from this money. But this also saves money, for it prevents social isolation from the elderly and may even prolong their lives. This makes elderly people much longer active. We're getting old as a nation, we need these people to work because we're moving in full of labor, and there's experience and knowledge in these people. [[The president calls.]] Let us not underestimate it, belittle it. Let's accept this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u162	A respectable president. As I mentioned earlier, we should expect to see more billions when we talk about the social security system in general. But after the telethon of what? paritaprevir For the sake of social security, it was found in the case of Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson of his time that it was possible to eliminate the loss of social security on the part of a job. This would cost only about 1.1 billion, a very small amount in connection with social security, when it is established to fix something that really matters to people. In comparison, more than tens of billions are when it comes to the pension savings and to give up because of the pension fund. It tells itself, since this amount is low in connection with the social security system, people are holding back on their jobs. Over the years, people are holding back jobs because of these limitations. That's why I don't believe that it's going to cost that much. In fact, I think this might even end up in addition to the state because it would solve the abilities of people who still can work in older years - who, of course, are not all, but some, many. That's when tax pay comes in. We've been through this a lot. I think it is worth highlighting the context of this amount with other sums of the same question. [[The president calls.]] It tells us a story, tells us what it is safe to do. It tells us that we would improve the system very much by doing this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u163	Mr. President. The administrative body does not respond to the labor movement's call for changes in the child - welfare system and wants the amount we agreed on here in 2019 to be the same as it was approved for 2013. The child - reform system has been clearly weakened in recent years, and thousands of children's families have fallen out of the system. The percentages of cuts are far too cruel and cause people under the median score to get no child damages. They start to cut back on salary that is at the bottom of a quarter of a income. We in the United States want to abandon government policy of child support in the form of the strength of the poor, and we want to look to the Norwegian states - child reform efforts and our adjustments are to take steps in that direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u164	A respectable president. This adjustment is required by extending the birthmark to 12 months. A number of problems have been associated with bridgeing the gap between birth or school and making these adjustment proposals, though not all the way to help. But this is a step in giving parents more time with their children and helps to bridge the gap between birthday orallofs and day parents or nurserys.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u165	Mr. President. I would like to encourage members of Congress to support this important proposal for the prolongation of the birthworm. The Group of Groups of the United Nations has provided a bill for changes in the current situation, since it is assumed that the birth Orlof will be extended from nine months to twelve months. By the end of 2012, the United States of America agreed on such a length of green greens, but the government of the forward and independent groups followed. In fact, a government in general has foretold an extension of birthworm during the period. That's why I'm urging her to accept this proposal and bill of the United States and get on with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u166	President. I also find it important to mention that extending the birthworm to 12 months is not only to bridge the gap between the nursery and the birthworm; it is also important for the child's development. Now we see how important it is for the child to have time with his parents at this delicate stage of development. Nine months is just too short. We must extend the birthworm, and I urge everyone to vote with this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u167	A respectable president. In this number, No. 78, more than 2.2 billion. The largest increases in peak rents from 520,000 to 600,000 to 600,000 to the parents in maternity vacations are reported. This is in harmony with the government's plans for increased support for family members with an increase in holiday rent. It rhymes with the text we got in a message balloon that was on our table yesterday, so it's time to celebrate. However, there will continue to be an extension of the birthworm during the season.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u168	Mr. President. To increase the balance in society is an eternal task. An increase in child - welfare rate under this legal class of some 1.6 billion years is taking a step in that direction. Children's benefits are thus increased by 15% from year to year, and they have increased by 26% since the start of the government. Puberty contributions rise by 19% this year. Here are important steps to increase the balance in society, and for this, left greens will continue to fight.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u169	A respectable president. To meet the minimum conditions of a contract that has been made to pay for reimbursement fund, this is 84 million on work and unemployment. According to the law, 0.13% of the insurance bill should be paid to the employment remuneration fund as an issue against the labour market authorities. However, this has not been done. There's a contract in which to pay at 0.05% of the insurance fee. 73 million will be needed to fulfill this contract. In addition, there are 11 million to the workforce for combating a labor trader. It's up to 84 million. K.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u170	A respectable president. It's under labour market conditions. Funds suggest an increase of 260 million. K. in the budget of pay in view of a revised budget of 2019 C.E. This team also contributes to 250 billion. K. it will be devoted to working contracts of disability. Work contracts are the most effective resources available to increase the effectiveness of people with impaired skills. In many cases, they are part of the disability process and therefore an important step in activating people for permanent return to the labour market. For example, a financial program of 2018●2022 offered that this workforce would be greatly increased by some 660 million. K. increase over time. The application for resources has proved to be higher than expected and takes the requested additional legal requirements as there is no need to take limited measures. That's good.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u171	Mr. President. Despite the recommendations by the labor movement and the sector that the housing and conflict are the key to a good agreement in future agreements, the total financial resources established by the government for housing have been virtually unchanged between the years. Governments have to simply add to this housing support and ensure further development. It'll even be here. building more and more efficient apartments and responding to serious conditions in the housing market, especially with nonprofit rent markets. That is why we propose in the United States to create an increase of 2 billion in general apartments, both in order to meet the more cumulative needs than also to meet the demands of the labour market.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u172	Mr. President. In spite of the labor movement and the sector's comment that housing is the key to understanding future labour agreements, the total financial resources due to housing are almost unchanged over the course of the year. In 2019 it will be only 3.4 billion, which is less than it was supposed to have in 2018 when it was due to be 4 billion. The decrease is 15% between years. Overall, housing support through the growth system has reduced the absolute value of more than 70% since 2013 and of homes that receive interest improvements by just 19 thousand. Change must be made to make sure that the growth improvements really go to those who need them. Thus, donations need to be increased and standards adjusted. That's exactly what we propose in the United States to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u173	Mr. President. This is incredible. Here is a suggestion to reduce housing support at the same time as the labor movement and the job situation are requested to improve. I don't know what a highly sophisticated government is. This is none of her private business. It may be symbolic that the only educated government captain seems to keep a course and reachs 3 billion for his clients, while being cut down on the people who need money.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u174	Mr. President. This proposal suggests a special budget for the cancer community of 50 million. The cancer community is doing a very important job in fighting cancer, which is truly thankful. The Society is conducting research, education, and prevention, and it is especially helpful to those diagnosed with cancer and to those who care for them. For many years, the cancer community has worked a very important job in the search for breast cancer among women. The Society's ministry is fragile, and it is very important to ensure for the future its harmony with experienced experts. The cancer club applied for financial contributions to the financial committee of over 70 million. K. to strengthen the business. The government groups, the greater part, rejected this request. The central category contributes a special contribution to the cancer society to 50 million, as mentioned earlier. I encourage the Senate to support this matter. This is a good and important thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u175	A respectable president. Unlike what was presented here in the case of some members of the council, contributions are being made to the hospital of Vogs and U.S.A. in this proposal. It is a very special thing to see many who spoke here grudgingly about the need to sit by those increases. This suggests an increase made to the Ministry, which is intended to negotiate specifically and directly at the hospital of Vig. It is being met with a repeated call for increased surrogacy services and thus a permanent service, especially in the country, something significant has been called upon. The suggestions previously discussed on the Vo and did not directly address the defined need, the walking services being carried out in this proposal. I know quite a few things about the hospital, Vig, and I'm ready to support the good work being done there. That's why I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u176	A respectable president. Here's a good idea. Árnadóttir This is where the billions who were unexplained are due to be taken back, and this is supposed to be one of the thousands of dollars in return. This is part of the public health and welfare administration, but it is our intention to suggest that from April 1 next year, a crown should be removed against the dollar of the impairment. The reason is that this costs a lot of money, but we know that there's quite a difference. This will help you to see more fully the experiences of the part of the year next year, how it will affect in one year to the next place.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u177	President. Piratar and I look at an investment in people who are in investments in future investments. It is an important step in granting people the freedom to live and for many to recover on their own terms. We can take this step. We can afford it because it's worth a lot of money to pay us back. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u178	A respectable president. I hear so-called right men--I say so because I myself feel a little confused about exactly what everything means-- I hear from the right direction that people should enjoy the fruits of their labor, and that's why it's not good to tax everything. But what about 100% tax? Of course, this is not a tax issue, but it is the same effect on the financial situation of people who face a dollar in return. They'll earn a dollar and it'll lose a dollar. More importantly, because income that are considered a income tax can affect still other payments, it can become more than 100%. I would like to know that every time people talk about discouraging taxes or discouraging systems, they think about it. What we're suggesting to be fixed is just a system error. It's just something that's not properly designed. Admittedly, it takes money to change that, naturally. So I encourage people to correct this error. I can't believe people would sit down and design this system exactly as it is today and have this obvious error inside it. [[The president calls.]] I don't believe it. This is what we call in the computer business a lot of trouble, just fix it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u179	Mr. President. Under these teams, there are a number of budgets. If you read the largest part's opinion, we'll see that under these teams there are funding to the UN of 150 million, a budget to the light of 30 million, a supportive center for cancer intelligence. These are good things the Central Party supports. On the other hand, it is also under the special nickname of the Independence Party, that of adding to the State Department. There are 70 million there to divide the Ministry of Health and others 92 million to further the Ministry. The middle class cannot support this independence party policy, to add to the state's perspective. However, there is a scruple, Mr. President, the way this is set up here in the vote, that votes cannot be paid separately to support the U.S.A. - while at the same time, one must support the independence party's interests in adding the state's request. The middle class will have to sit by in this, but I'd like to suggest that we make a suggestion to raise a donation to the U.S.A.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u180	Mr. President. All I'm going to do is call the members of Congress and possibly the nation's attention that the government groups have dropped here every suggestion of the government stand, some of which were even transferred by some of the individual members of the administrations. It has been called for new tactics, especially from the left green, and they fall into exactly the same holes that they criticized when they were on the other side of the table. There was not one suggestion to be given by these groups as a basis. The TV fund, it was taken down, should be a parapolitic language. A small addition was not allowed to be put in the nursing home for older citizens, not to keep promises of disability. In fact, even governments could not be arranged to send additional relief supplies to children in the Yemen. I don't understand what this is all about. I don't understand why we can't get out of the old-fashioned strategy that anything that comes from the government's resistance should be taken into account by the government. I feel that the members of the board should be ashamed of this, because I know they've called many of them after we get out of these missions, which, unfortunately, are now over and over again confirmed. [[The president calls.]] This is not a good day for the council. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u181	V.E.G. President. I'm going to explain why the committee calls that proposal again. So the committee has taken to heart all the major parties involved in this case, to repay up to 1.5 billion to Iceland. The Commission has thus gained information about the company's position and its expected actions and, at the same time, the changes in executives. So it has something to do with a bill that's on the subject. Environmental and Transport Committee. So we see a different environment. The committee simply feels that it takes more time to process the data and information that she has acquired and suggested. At the same time, I'd like to point out unit 7.19 to 6. on deck. As a result, 450 of which we are taking care of the authority to lay down Iceland was prepared to raise its own money for the existing financial problems of the society.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u182	Mr. President. I allow myself to come up here and be especially happy that this proposal is called back to the highest level. The budget board. I'm giving you a lot of concern about Iceland's business and activities. I believe it is urgent that all committees -- I hope this will not be a majority thing, but that it will be a cross-referred group on this important business that I am deeply concerned about. I hope so, and I know that under the leadership of a great chairman of the budget board, the matter will be examined carefully. I believe that the Ministry of finance is also involved in the case and answer certain questions regarding this company. The situation at Iceland Center is very serious, and it is important that Congress worlds make this a success of it. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u183	Mr. President. I'd like to mention it here so that there wouldn't be a misunderstanding about the point that turns to the B- force, i.e. to repay up to 1,000 million. K. to V. E.H., that it is proper to guess and say that this is not actually an additional one, but it is a previous authority that we agreed on a year ago, because the project has been delayed. So let's make it clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u184	A respectable president. It is a pleasure to finish the day of an old acquaintance who is in the Válladle Hall and who is now much closer to being made available to them, the much transportation available there. Last year, when this case was being discussed, I said that I was hoping that the next time we discussed the refinance of the tunnel would be for us to face the situation and make this project a Kingdom channel, indicating that it is the case with all their funding. I did not support the conversion of a year ago on the Vállah tunnel, nor do I support this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u185	Mr. President. It is never too often out of this discourse how important it is to nurture the English language. We also often believe that the English language is more English for young people than English. Icelandic youths are used to being able to look up free of charge from all the English language; anti warm, synonyms; rights. It's no big deal. It's built into the editing program. This is a source of permission to negotiate contracts for rights by Icelandic dictionarys and by occurrences of similar dictionarys and to hide the establishment of Magnús in Icelandic studies to open access to all of them electronically. It is a revolutionary step, I believe, in order to facilitate access to these dictionarys for free and will specifically improve the status of Icelandic youths who do not hope to pay for such online services. I wanted to draw attention to it. I want to wish the government and the Supreme Court. Secretary of education and culture to congratulate you on that. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-21-35.u186	Mr. President. There's a lot of interesting things under this team, but I'd like to encourage you. A global and educational committee to look at this from a cultural point of view and to get an introduction to what is involved, what is behind it. I think most of the projects are very worthwhile and interesting, but I think it would be nice also to know that the council would be informed about where and where they are buying different cultures, whether houses or other.
