ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u1	Borist has a letter from the financial and economic secretary asking for every appointment to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. 201, on payments and interest payments from Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Issu.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u2	V.E.G. President. I'm going to discuss a mall and the need to shape public cluster policy. First, I'd like to thank the director of the New Creation Center, Karl Friðriksson, for taking the initiative to give us members of the Parliament the opportunity to meet one of the world's top specialists on a mall. His name is Ifor Ffowcs-Williams-Williams, and he is in this country on the behalf of the New Creation Centre with a workshop for mall managers. He took time for us senators to inform us more about clustering and modeling groups. I was happy to see the interest that the senators showed in this meeting, and especially the president and members of the committee at that time. Business committee. I think it's very important that we follow the initiative of the industry towards the establishment and shape of a cluster and hide the husk. A government shapes public cluster policy. I, along with other members of the House of Booths, have repeatedly submitted a judicial arrangement for this subject, and the matter is now under consideration. A professional health committee. I hope after this meeting that case goes into effect. We need to look to other nations in this area that have developed public policies and are reaching a distance; it was in this meeting that it was important, like the examples in Canada, Norway, Denmark, and other places. This is not a monopoly on financing, but rather on amplifying the innovation of the self-proving clusters and cooperation with educational and research institutions in certain areas or national and international institutions, in which the use of resources and valuables is appropriate. There are 45 classes and more local classes in Denmark. Danes have recommended that companies involved in the mall group work are four times more likely to start new projects than those non-participants. This is really the core of public cluster policy development.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u3	Mr. President. Last Friday, I attended a public talk at the University of Iceland, where Guðmundur Hafsteinsson, a director of Google and a newly appointed board group for the development of innovation policy in Iceland, was giving talks. The Guðmundur's Hafsteinsson in his speech was that Iceland was involved in the fast development of technology and that the direction of Icelandic society would be in order to be suitable for experiments related to, e.g. self-sustaining cars. A few weeks ago, I took the NATO Scientific and Technical Committee on a very interesting trip to San Diego and the Silicon Valley. The European Commission's focus points were online security and artificially identified, with special emphasis on learning machines, ◯machine learing. The program was packed, and many of the world's largest high-tech companies were visited on this trip, such as General Atomic Systems, Facebook, Google, NASA research site in Ames, as well as many other leading companies in their fields. The focus was on Internet security, which is becoming one of the world's largest issues of our day. I think it's extremely important for us in Iceland to participate in that trend. What most stood out on the move was the artificial intelligence and its source and the tremendous impact it has on the everyday lives of the inhabitants. The learning machines and their connection make you think about the tremendous changes that are taking place in the way of life on earth. What a man thought was that we should participate in the revolution, not be afraid of it, but at the same time be careful about things. There are so many other things that we could share in the areas I talked about with high - tech technology, such as inaccessible aircraft and development and induction of new health technology. Let us take advantage of the available opportunities and be responsible, but do not react in a year's time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u4	Mr. President. On average, thousands of people seem to be trapped in various parts of the system. The system steals time from people, both in the present and in the future, and deep within the system lies in buildings, vehicles, plans, and dreams all sitting in tight. Everywhere you go, people tell sad stories from inside the system, about the historical exploits of those who broke out and stories about people who haven't been seen since they left to fill out a form some weeks ago. Sometimes the local coffee shops may hear that someone has found a way out of the system or around it, but they can't be said out loud. But this blessed system does not exist. The purpose of painting it as a monster from the bowels of hell, to make it a villain, and to make it a crime, is to distract us from the fact that all the evil things of the system are actually done by people. Yes, there are people in authority. And on the basis of their power, they make decisions, or they ignore events. That's where all the evil of the system comes from. Today, however, there are not many individuals who are determined to trap thousands of people in the system by their decisions or by their lack of determination. Usually these problems result from some very human explanations, such as lack of knowledge, a strange order of action, an unexplained chain of responsibility, or a lack of authority to solve problems. A decision-making failure is a endemic plague in Iceland. In part, it is a result of a culture where there is little praise for what is done well, a great deal ashamed of even minor mistakes, and suspicions cast a shadow on even the most innocent decisions, where everyone knows that the system is always cheating on them. Try to be kind to one another and find solutions, even if they do not fit within the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u5	A respectable president. Recently, the Ministry of Education and Culture here at the High General Assembly for a bill recommended support for the publication of books in Icelandic. The will of each and every one of us is to increase reading, reading, and understanding, especially among children and young people. Just on that occasion, as a representative of the Western Council, I allow myself to draw attention to the very same time, the Western Children's and Youths's Prize was awarded for its ninth education at a children's festival in the North American House in Reykjavík. They were involved in this in the easy - to - understand writer Bárður's Óskarsson for the book The Tree. He made further progress, and he also went to the Council of Literature at the same category of awards held at Oslo just a week ago in which the Western nations came, saw, and defeated. Since I find a very special point in this regard, it seems that it is entirely in the heel whether the award books are then translated into Western languages, which should be a racer. It is important that all children have access to good books for reading in these tiny language areas, which have as much as we do when it comes to language giants, and pressure grows in the digital world. Since 2006, few of the awards books have been translated into all the languages, virtually nothing in New York City, or in Greenlandic. That's very sorry. Mr. President. The same was true regarding the soon - to - be academic prize of the Northern Council. This has now been improved and will have been spent over $3 million in translation of the Northern Council's Prize Books, thus describing the will of the Council of England to make more books available in all Norwegian languages. Mr. President. There are few better ways to bring these little languages closer to one another, to understand culture, and different circumstances. It wasn't even. The original purpose?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u6	Mr. President. I'd like to talk to you about health care. It was held last Friday, quite well attended a convention of a very broad group of health care professionals and others interested in it. There was a very good and pleasant discussion. The arrangement of the council was such that it seemed that it was possible for the delegates to present their views, which were well - established. It was also a joy that there were several senators, including some of them. From a welfare committee, and hopefully some of the frequency of the council will come in here. This body of health care is likely to be a good problem for the future work that will be involved in the modeling of health policy to the year 2030. As I've been in Congress before, it's very important to know where we're going and what we're going to do with our health. There were some very important comments at the council, including on rehabilitation matters, aging services, expert medical planning, and other aspects of the health system I trust will be carried out by both the health department and the others involved in this machine. All of this is very important because the Icelandic health - care system has every opportunity to be in the highest order with the knowledge that exists and the current structure. Here we can say that our health - care provider is a measure of human rights, with the support of a stronger infrastructure, and with support to the important fact, let's say that the health service is human rights, making sure that we stay in the front row.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u7	Mr. President. Eight different fishing instruments are in use in Iceland, ranging from cover to trap. According to my question to the highest degree. A re-examiner to the Marine Research Agency has three guidelines in evaluating environmental impacts. It's energy consumption. It's called optimal ability, i.e. how to reach and how much fish and what to do with them, and then what to do with ecosystems or fish that touch and kill organisms. It's called unregistered Fish Death. I encourage everyone. Councilmen to learn the answers that are worthwhile and that are in five pages. The projection is one of the most controversial fishing instruments in history. There, energy consumption is high, idealism is good, but significant impacts on ecosystems. It's progress, actually, man's using a tug shutter that doesn't touch a little bottom and that sort of thing. Yet, the most debate is the fishing option. Other means of fishing mainly affect the bottom. Based on response, there is considerable work to be done, especially in urgent studies in Iceland that have not really been performed. I'd like to read your answers with the permission of a respectable president: The number of direct studies on the use of different fishing instruments on different bottoms here have not been performed and there is a lack of greater and better maping of bottoms and ecosystems around the country. Second: ▪ Different habitats need to be distinguished, both from the environment and from the living things that live there, or used them. The effect of different fishing instruments can be evaluated individually. Target areas should be protected from too close to individual habitats that would reduce their biodiversity here. So it is a job to do, and it is worth considering whether there is a need for support in the activities of a CREEP Agency that contributes to such action.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u8	A respectable president. I read an earlier report in the reactor that confirms what many of us knew or suspected, that the number of foreign citizens living in this country has increased greatly. They were at the end of September 2018 43,430. That's a huge growth. About 2011, the number was 21,000, so this is a 108% increase over seven years and particularly in recent years, or 43% increase from the end of 2016. It's really good. We are to be proud that we live in such a community that people want to bring us home, whether they intend to settle for a long time or to come here for work temporarily. However, there is a need for careful attention to the rights and the equipment of those coming here who may not fully know how to deal with society and the rules we follow. Just as knowledge of the rights that all of us here deserve is needed. An additional support is needed for this huge group that is growing rapidly. That is why again, I want to call attention to a council decree that I am the 1st. that to help people who are not born in the country but who are moving to this country to find a special effort in these matters, to provide support for those who are not born in the country. That support needs to be enhanced. Especially should the capital area be viewed because the crowd is so large, but it is just as necessary to look to the town of Smokeyas, where the increase has been the most. More than 24% of its population are of foreign origin. It must be considered that the West, where the fine work of the Multihuman Park has been done over the past few years, needs to be solidly supportive. A respectable president. Although the time is long to do so, the number shows that we need to take a closer look and take a proper effort to do so, and to do so, the bill is a good guide.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u9	Today there are elections in the United States, and at the elections two years ago, many were surprised that Trump could have won. The models they set up to help them understand beforehand did not work. The people expected him to lose, and then he won. Among the things I've been doing since then, there are different models installed. When I was in business school at my time, in human resources, I read about a model called the Modeles-Brigs Type Innicator◯, a personpripromm, that myers & Briggs brought together, and has been too good at identifying the colleagues I have, what the basis is, what value it uses, etc. Then there are the models, which are called the immediate letters of five characters. It's the model that even. Cambridge Analytica used to throw at voters, try to identify them, identify them, or make personal messages in individuals based on these factors. A new model I've just stumbled into would like to point out maybe, opening up a conversation between those in the United States who would prefer demokrats and those who are more ◯conservative, or hold, and prefer the Republicans. That model is known as Presidential Foundations Theoryκ, i.e. A basic ethic. Jonathan Haidt presents the theory, which has already been experimented with many communities. One of the main points is that this is priorities, how to set these values -- is that those who are more or more liberal set priorities - and to care or to be concerned - above those values than they forget at the conservative values. What is lower than what conservatives put above - which is loyalty to their internal and military groups and that is to subject themselves to authority and have a higher degree of structure in power and then some sort of Šsacenity, or ◯purity, some purity, or some kind of purity -- We can see in all communities. [[The president calls.]] I show people this model to look at it because it explains much to why we who are liberal may not see that there are other priorities for conservatives. This can open up conversation and understanding.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u10	A respectable president. In the morning paper this morning, I wrote an article on the demands of the most noisy unions and the discussion in the country during the past few weeks. It was like the man said. I had just mentioned that it wasn't for anyone to criticize the requirements because the same person can be expected to be intertwined with evil capitalism, accused of working against low wages and others in that way, and it had become the case right before noon. There is no way for people to participate in the discussion, to communicate, to discuss principles, and to pay, if the discussion is merely abusive and emotional, and traditional reasonings and discussion of the facts are completely forbidden. What I'm really worried about is that now some people are striving to put people in opposite lines, enemies, without building the discussion in a reasonable conversation that would benefit all the people in the country. You see, it is nothing far more true than that employers are enemies of the employees. Who can't live without the other, and the interests of both parties are doing well in business. I'm sure that the largest part of the country's employee wants reason to have the upper hand where we can discuss any future agreements with care. You see, it is only what will ensure a better standard of living for all the people in the country. Clearly, increased power of riches and stability is not self - esteem at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u11	A respectable president. I'm going to use this opportunity to discuss innovation and its importance for Icelandic employment and Icelandic society. I was like a whisk. Friðbertsson On Friday, where Guðmundur Hafsteinsson, who has been assigned to lead a group of people who are taking on the formation of the New World Policy of our Icelanders, spoke of what I would like to interpret as the beauty of our breath, our opportunity as a small country to survive at various levels. As we know, we have the highest. Industrial and innovation ministers formed a group, and I know that many people have a whale. Parliaments are participants in the shape of innovation policy. It's very important to me to look at some of the factors involved. Business innovations are being carried out, especially on food production, health technology, and education. The supportive environment of innovation, environmental solutions, public and health services is also discussed. Guðmundur talked about our being afraid of technology and being afraid of new things. He certainly is right. I think we have to look out specifically so that we have an amazing number of cool people, cool pioneers who are willing to contribute a lot, but we are often afraid to bet on our magnificent companies and cool pioneers. Earlier today, several members of the council were allowed to listen to Williams Williams talk about the importance of cluster witnessing and the importance of clustering activities that can lead to great innovation. He said that we were simply slow and slow when it comes to building a cluster, though we have several excellent clusters that do magnificent things. He recommended that we form a public cluster policy, like a what? paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson came in earlier and has recommended, thinking that such policy should be part of our innovation policy. [[The president calls.]] I hope so much that we are fortunate to present a innovation policy soon, which looks to all that is involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u12	Mr. President. Shortly after midnight on Saturday, a freighter found himself at the harbor in Helguvík. Human survival was made, and a helicopter of the National Guard saved all crew and ocean guide. I want to use this opportunity to thank all the rescue workers who came to the rescue in Helga. This continues to show us the importance of the marine rescue helicopters and the wonderful crews on them. I would also like to thank the rescue workers throughout the country who perform important volunteer rescue work. The case in Helgavík could have gone on a much worse route. The vessel could have closed the seal with unpredictable consequences, but as we know, Helvík's oil trade and even the same. It's fueling for Keflavour Airport. Now that successful rescue work is done, pollution has to be considered, and this work is already under way. Helguvík is one of six so - called emergency crews in the country. The purpose of the emergency oceans is to prevent accidents and pollution at sea and reduce their impact on marine and coastal environments, the economy, and the health of citizens. Based on the work force of an emergency team preparing an emergency programme for external pollution. This strategy allows the EEA to install and transport pollution equipment at the site of an accident. That's the arrangement. Mr. President. I think this arrangement is unfortunate and not efficient because the emergency seas are all over the country. Weather conditions can prevent equipment from reaching an accident site as soon as possible. Containment equipment should always be available in these six harbors. The State needs funding to install equipment and train staff of emergency workers to react to accidents and dangers. That, in fact, led to a conclusion. Sea council recently. In view of this event, I also feel that the schedule from 2015 would be necessary to review.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u13	V.E.G. President. New reports are received from the EU to reduce chicken meat monitoring, but in most parts of Europe, the incidence of catfoylobacter in chicken 100% is the main cause of food poisoning in Europe. With Icelanders, we want to avoid the masquerade and protect the health of our citizens. We don't go public with a salad chicken, it's thrown out. We have high standards for food production and are in a position to be concerned with food safety. We have all the opportunities and opportunities to advance to other nations in the production of wholesome food, both marine and agricultural products. Food should not necessarily flow freely from country to country, such as other products. Not in situations where public health has to be protected from food that can have harmful effects on health. Iceland has a unique position that makes it easier to protect itself from disease, to avoid the spread of antibiotics, and to reduce the spread of such bacteria because we are an island of pure farms. Icelandic farmers have kept watch, cultivated the land, gained quality production, quality food that truly enjoys some special facilities, such as. There is, for example, a drug use in the lowest part of the world, and the use of genetically modified food is forbidden. The aim of the agricultural system all goes down to ensure the highest quality food for the people of the country that meets the highest animal resources. V.E.G. President. I further suggest that we listen to our most experienced scientists who warn us about the import of fresh meat. For example, Dr. Karl G. Kristinsson of the Geological and Antiviral Department of the Land Hospital says the effect on fresh meat will be theirs e.g. the growth of chelate bacteria, which show that in Iceland the least antibiotic resistance is possible in all European countries, one of the world's greatest public health efforts today. We are very well, and I think that Dr. Guðnadóttir's daughter's words are appropriate here: keeping the country clean is a disaster.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u14	President. Now I am entering this sermon for the first time in more than five years. It's an honor, and he's not yourself. You see, I'm amazed at the Council, and I like the respect of the Council as much as possible. I don't think a lot of people understand the nature of Congress. Why can't people just work together, they're asked. The pernicious conflict is natural in politics. The senators are to deal with it with words and logic. Sometimes I try to explain this in some small merger, but then it comes to corruption, and I'm the one who's so important to me to defend the Council. I know, because I know a lot of people here, that most senators are brilliant good people. I don't necessarily agree with them on all things, but I know most people here are working loyally for the nation. That is not enough to bring up the respect of the Generals. People are informed, they listen to news, they read magazines, and the Internet. They know at best of questionable business leaders in the years and especially in the days before collapse. This is well - known by a well - thought - out minister of justice at the order of a court judge of the land and the judgments that have fallen on account of her work. They are two ministers and members of Parliament, perhaps with most others, probably not because these two ministers are in the shelter of a greater part of the council. Thirty-three members of the Parliament supported this government in the last time, including these two ministers, whom I claim not to be in those places in the states we would like to compare with. Most of the council allows this and is ready to ignore corruption because of their good conduct and believe that they are the best of the nation. The purpose does not sanctify the average. I know most people in this room are better than this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u15	Mr. President. There are future agreements that can be difficult to deal with. It is important that the result be successful and provide the basis for continued economic growth in the land. These treaties afford a precious opportunity to make an effort to bring justice to the lowest wage. They have been allowed to take on an increased tax burden in excess of others, as is attributed to Iceland's Translation Association on the tax burden of 1998-03/2016. Stockholm's members have the support of two o'clock. The members of the Central Party proposed a synopsis of a taxation fee of less than 300,000 dollars. to see that income that is not enough for forward is not tax-counting. In addition, the proposal has the goal of increasing the equation in the tax system and moving the tax ratio to the level of income groups near what happens and walks in the North countries. The cost of the proposal is similar, but it is, in fact, somewhat higher than the cost of the proposal of a financial minister for the elections last year on a decline of less than 2% in the lower level of income tax. Otherwise, the suggestions are quite clear on goals, but the latter are not particularly aimed at improving the interests of low - income workers. Rather, they seem to benefit the earner. This is the table, Mr. President, a realistic proposal for the lack of taxes under 300,000 dollars. which appears to meet the claims of dressbacks for the lowest paid. In addition to the remarkable efforts on housing, a recipe for the success that I found at the beginning of my speech has to be called a national need.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u16	Mr. President. Yesterday, the news was that Illelands had bought all the stocks in Wow, their greatest rival in the country. Of course, it's a joy to know that hopefully with these actions, we have been able to secure the operation of Wow. It has not been a secret to the discussion that many things have been done in the past. The economic importance of the airline should not be reduced or the impact on international tourism if the airline of this magnitude had fallen. This does not change, however, because, of course, this is a significant and potentially negative influence on a competitive market. In this context, it must be very carefully considered, and competitive authorities are certainly a problem, whether or not the fact that a united airline has less than 4% market share on the flight route across the Atlantic or whether a united airline would have almost 80% of the market share to and from the country. As consumers in this country, we are considerably affected whether or not there will be an active air market competition. Unfortunately, in recent years the interest of free and active political competition in Iceland has often been very limited, such as the debate. has often been the case of agricultural policy. It is of utmost importance when it comes to this much sensitive solution to the competitive authorities that we give the advice and time to process this complex situation and to ensure the interests of consumers in the matter, that this will continue to be an active competition for us citizens of this country in a flying market despite this fusion. This will not be encouraged to compromise the legislation on competitive matters when discussing this agreement with competitive authorities but, contrary to the fact that it will be prepared so that the interests of consumers in this country will not be eaten.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u17	Mr. President. I believe it is right to review the objective of this request, which is to gather to one place the information that is essential to the careful preparation of the dissociation of the Church of America, compared with other registered religious and biological institutions. The goal of the waitrs is not to try to undermine the national church's historic or cultural status. It made me sad to hear a speech from the highest. Secretary of finance at the council. I quote him, by permission of the President: But even at the General Assembly there is a considerable group of senators who do not seem willing to acknowledge in any respect that the Church has a role or purpose in the past, nor do they respect the agreements made. This makes it even more urgent that the State and the Church get together as soon as possible to develop their relationship and church independence within a reasonable framework. [[The president calls.]] In other words, the State, the State, and the Church are going to work out a deal before the Allied can get their hands on it. This is not this ideal case, the council, or the State Church, or the highest. Secretary of the budget, as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u18	Mr. President. It says that the objective of this request is to draw together to one place the information on separate factors, with the permission of a president, which is the basis for a careful decision to disqualify the Church's unique status as compared to other documented religious and biological institutions. Then, with the permission of the president, they say: ▪ The aim of a candidate is not to work for nationalization or to undermine his historic and cultural status. For this, of course, I'm going to thank you, but I'm going to let myself say it here that I'm not going to live up to the goals described here. So I can't support this report request. I don't want to lie down against her transporters by voting against her, but I'll sit by.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u19	A respectable president. This mailman's proposal is strange in many ways and appears to involve certain prejudices or at least Lack of knowledge of church status and church and State, history that goes back to over 1,000 years. It would be reasonable to examine how much the church has agreed to yield to the State over the past few years of what it has had legal rights, according to contracts - it took upon herself to yield billions of dollars, which, of course, has made its expression on the work of the church and, in many ways, made the more difficult service it provides. So I can't support this suggestion. However, it is customary not to violate our reporting requests. Since I'm not a mailman, I'm gonna hold on to the tradition for a while and don't vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u20	A respectable president. It is popular to set up segregation between state and church so that it is against church and Christian faith and others who stand up and defend it for the attacks of opposers against it. It's just not the case. The separation of state and church is a matter of urban equality to law, regardless of religious and biological status. That's what it's all about. I'm in a philosophy society called Civilt, it's not hard to look up that I was in the management of the fine company. I would fight very hard against the idea that civility would be some kind of national opinion here, because I don't believe that state is religious, whatever I may believe in spiritual matters. This request is what the name says, a request for a report, collection of information, certainly aims to evaluate this project. The task is not in opposition to Christianity, not even opposition to the Church itself as an organization or as a religion, but in this relationship between state and church. [[The president calls.]] It is the role of the State that we should consider here, not our religious convictions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u21	Mr. President. A report with this request says that the National Church has a legal status. That's right. Thus, more people want it, their relationship with the State Church. This was clearly seen in the U.S. National Code 6 years ago, where a clear greater proportion chose not to keep laws on the State Church in a constitution. I believe the objective of this report is to lay the groundwork for breaking off the legal uniqueness of the nation church that I am opposed to. I can't support this report request. And for polite reasons, I don't vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u22	Mr. President. I welcome this request, and I'm with the importer there. I think there's some kind of information to be given to the council. When it comes to segregation of Church and State, there are many, including Church members who speak of a full separation have already been separated from kingdoms and churches, and there is no connection. The answer from the church tells me that we need to examine the relationship. Have You Separated? What have the payments been? What are the legal functions? What's the situation today after all this time? Questions on the report are therefore most valid, the agreements currently being asked, and what payments have taken place. It is not a suggestion to separate state and church but to ask for information on the situation. I think that must all of us want that information on the table. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u23	V.E.G. President. I'm one of those at this report request. That is because I believe that we lack more information about church affairs and the status of the National Church in the community as it is now in proportion or in connection with the position of other religions. Although some in here seem to want to interpret it as we would like to do more by this request than what is said at the request, and if there's anything more for us there, I'm glad they are. At any rate, though, members of Congress will not vote against it, and thus, in reality, they do not allow other senators to get information within the defined limits of what such reports include. But this is a beginning to find out. [[The president calls.]] Then maybe we'll take the next step later.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u24	Mr. President. I think we can be positive about getting information. The points asked here are largely reasons for which a request may arise. That is why it might have been easier for you to do so. The transferer to give a query for a written answer. However, it is vital to remember that a report request is primarily intended for obtaining information. For example, if a person is to work with certain goals, because he intends to establish some adjustment, such as, it may be reasonable to make the matter a matter in the form of a judicial arrangement that will receive a physical discussion at the council. A request is received as such. That is why it would have been better, I think, since it is the aim of a candidate, to prepare for deconstruction of the Church's speciality - it says in the text, that's the goal of making a conquistador. Besides, I have to say, I find it very strange that the council is asking the Minister for a report including... In them, as an article in section 6, which members of the Ministers would be interested in making a decision to eliminate the unique position of the National Church. [[The president calls.]] As I say: I believe that the information provided here will be obtained about the state's position, agreements with the State, financial contributions, and the like, but I have to say that a candidate has chosen the wrong way to establish this matter, so he will not support the proposal below. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u25	President has to ask. Senators, watch out for deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u26	It takes me a long time these days, on these chickens.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u27	[[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] The President was patient, including. because of that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u28	A respectable president. I'm among carriers. You're right. paritaprevir A Birgir's Ármannsson says, maybe there's something about the form here, but it's also thought about it, and part of an information gathering for the request was my inquiry about the church meeting that we received an answer to very recently. It was said, and it would not even be known which land was involved, something remarkable, which will further support us in the need of information on the subject. This is what we took from the report request and moved as a query. So what? paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson may try to cover himself with some form, but after all, we need this information.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u29	A respectable president. We're here on the change in annual accounts law, No. 3/2006, as well as later adjustments. The bottom line is that on June 2, 2016, the General Assembly adopted a change in the annual accounts as well. The change in 7th paragraph included a change. The law says that the text of the annual bill and balance bill should always be in English, but also in English, if necessary. The wording has not been sufficiently clear and in a memo on the importance of the balance of annual accounts for the account year 2017 shows that current legislation means that annual accounts have to be negotiated in Icelandic which are proposed at the main meeting. It is, of course, a burdensome provision for companies who may even know how to deal with it. to have non - English executives. In view of this, a minister suggested that the adjustment of these laws, which could include the writing of annual accounts, the original form of a annual bill, in English if specific circumstances were involved, but emphasis was laid on the fact that the Icelandic translation of the annual accounts should be provided with a annual bill that should be kept outside the annual accounts of all Icelandic partners, and that they should be in Icelandic. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Harpa Theodórsdóttir from the Department of Professional Affairs and Development. The committee also received a review of the case from the Icelandic case committee, as well as a joint report from CCP, Eyri Invest, Illandir Group, Marel, Meniga, Nasdaq, Iceland's Association of Business and Business. As members of the Committee, we agree on the importance of corporate competitiveness in no way. I think most of us realize that it may be a great deal of money in a business to be able to be with foreign - language executives. Business competition can also be the way that it operates on a global market and, as a result, feel that the annual accounts are naturally submitted to the English language, which is commonly considered as international business. The report on the bill specifically speaks of these larger companies working on a global market, but in our discussion at the Committee, we also looked forward to this as a smaller business as well. These may be startups in innovation, which may benefit greatly from obtaining experts in the sector or in the relevant field of knowledge to sit in charge. Of course, it is not possible to expect a member of the board to sign a year's account in a language they do not understand. Therefore, we believe that this authority exists, and the committee believes that the laws of the law should be interpreted in the way that a foreign government society meets the requirements for great interests and is therefore permitted to negotiate annual accounts in English. But it is true that the bill is not intended to interfere with the principle that annual accounts should be written in Icelandic. Other sources are restricted, and therefore it should be used anyway, and then the annual accounts should be submitted in English together with an original in English. Therefore, each year's annual account will always be saved from a annual bill. In a review received from the Icelandic Language Committee, the Committee proposed an expression change in 2 gr. The bill to set the place of Icelandic and to mention English before English. The committee gives a whole mind to the proposal and proposes a change in proposal for the bill. In addition, the committee has another adjustment proposal that reads: ▪ After 1st par. A new article, as follows: Instead of reference '-'2'. mg 7th over, and 2nd. Count 9. The law comes: 3 mg. 7th B: /en......................... This is only a technical change due to a change in order. The committee also received a joint review from the Business Council and seven companies who use access to writing annual accounts in English. They suggested that it was not a reason to choose companies to produce a translation, which means a year's account, in combination with an English edition. These fine paraphrasers argue that this is a burden to companies, may cost considerable money, and may feel that English is a general international business. The committee does not agree with that argument and does not consider why they want to change the bill to the very being they suggest in their review. So the committee suggests that the bill will be agreed almost unchanged with the change I took over from the order to 2 mgr. 2.g. ▪ English, English, and non - English, U.S.A. Under this committee, Óli Björn Kárason, chairman of the Committee, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Smári Mccarthy, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Braunzur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, and Þórunn the Egilsdóttir of Eliil. I don't think there's much more to it than a bill. It's not very complicated at the ground level. Hence, a specific procedure is first committed. Nevertheless, I would like to stress that I think it is very important for the competition of Icelandic enterprises to have this possibility at the same time as with this very important importance that the Icelandic public can always approach the annual accounts of Icelandic companies in their mother tongue. We simply think that it must be the interests of the enterprises that are underneath, and especially of all society, that everyone can have access to such information and read it in their mother tongue.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u30	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For her background on the case, the spirit of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir. As mentioned in her case, I sign the committee opinion. I would like to have a brief conversation with the senator about the factors presented in the review with the many members, i.e. The major companies in Iceland and the Business Council, where they review that perhaps it would be unnecessaryly burdensome to have Icelandic annual accounts in Iceland for those companies and it would be helpful to have an extract. I'm there because I think it's as important for an Icelandic company to be able to call Icelandic executives or executives who have grown up in the environment where companies work in some cases, such as being able to call outside eyes, because I think they're important. Therefore, I would like to discuss with the senator whether she agrees with me on the basis of what she mentioned with the Icelandic public, who will likely be able at some point to share in these companies or are interested in observing their activities, that he can safely understand the activities of the companies.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u31	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this question. I can agree fully with that. A senator's importance is that mainly those members of the company's governments need to have their annual accounts in a language they have a good knowledge of. In most cases it is Icelandic, and the principle, from now on, will still be that the annual accounts of Icelandic companies are submitted in Icelandic. I don't suppose there's a significant change in that. As I mentioned in my case earlier, there is a certain exception when there are important interests under which there may be in Icelandic companies that are very often competed on a global market. Then this authority would be available. And despite the fact that these fine reporters have tried to argue that there is no reason to provide the Icelandic translation of the annual account, the committee did not agree. I couldn't agree more. A senator when he brings up the importance of this, for of course it is important that we read the English language. It is important that corporate employees have good access to the annual accounts of their enterprises and can study them. The firm has reasoned that it may be very expensive to translate annual accounts into Icelandic. I don't really understand that criticism myself. A year's bills are, as we know most of the people who turned them down, quite standardized for their presentation and installation. It is hard to imagine that the cost of translating annual accounts is considerable. If a company operates at another level on a global market, I'd think it wasn't a big part of their expenses.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u32	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer, but later I would like to discuss what was a little discussed with these comments mentioned by the senator. It's the importance of a company's home market, such as here in Iceland, making public trust in the relevant company. I believe the Icelandic company is in this respect nothing different than company in other countries of the world. If they do not enjoy support and trust from the source they come, they are, at least, less likely to be able to land somewhere else. Therefore, this trust in the public is important and any basis for which to investigate the enterprises must be available for the general public. No matter how we feel about the English skills of the Icelanders, I am aware that in some commercial environment, people can take up a magazine and figure out what business practices are going on, if they didn't get some special education. Then perhaps it is quite another matter, whether we should consider promoting the education of Icelanders in international commerce. Personally, I may not feel that it is the greatest project here but, above all, to try to make sure that the Icelanders understand the language spoken in the country and can use it to study what is happening in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u33	A respectable president. I'll think about it. A senator has misspokenly intended to speak of the English skills of the Icelanders when it comes to reading annual accounts. I believe that he is right in that there are times and seasons where the language can be so that it is not for anyone to read it, although the person may be comfortable with his or her English language. Then, too, much of the public will not realize their annual accounts even if they are available in Icelandic, and then we will establish financiallocks and the importance of strengthening them. I'm going to take my mind off with a what? A member of the Parliament on the importance of trust, trust and loyalty of an enterprise and the importance of improving our stock market and Icelanders will see opportunities for investing in companies. I think one thing's gonna lead to another. As a result, we apply this in our reviews and discuss considerable on the Committee the importance of the credibility of Icelandic business and that one part of it is that the public can approach the annual accounts of an enterprise in Icelandic language. I think we all agree on the importance of continuing to do so. This bill is only to ensure the possibility, in fact, that an enterprise can also provide the originals of the year in English. What was neglected in the 2016 conversion was allowing the English production. The firm points out that they could once put in their annual accounts only in English. What we are now ensuring is the possibility to contribute a year's account in English and at the same time make sure that there is always a copy in the Icelandic annual bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u34	Mr. President. Thank you. The head of the committee for a fine review of the committee's opinion and adjustment of the proposal. I am not entirely convinced, however, that the committee has necessarily reached the best possible conclusion on the case and allows me to specify a few points from the group's review of the group, which are among the major and major companies of the country and the Stockyards and Business Councils. First of all, the fact that annual accounts are at the same time increases. I can't quite figure it out. The review shows that in such countries as Norway, Denmark, and the Netherlands, they do not require annual reports in their mother tongue but can be published in a foreign language, at least in English. You must ask yourself, " Is business life in the three countries not credible? ' I don't really see this context. I just want to hear about it. Then there is the question of the demand for annual accounts from such companies. This is made clear in the review I quote to show that there is no demand. Then you can ask: What credibility is being fulfilled if no one wants the account in Icelandic? [[The president calls.]] Just to assume that the annual accounts are not just a few numbers on paper. [[The president calls.]] Marel's last annual account is, for example, listed 65 pages, a lot of numbers, and a lot of text. [[The president calls.]] As you rightly point out, there is error and error in the form of the English text. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So I don't quite understand the credibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u35	A respectable president. It is to say that I have strong faith in it, and I believe most of the ones under this committee view write, that part of building credibility is just transparency. Transparently, the importance of submitted annual accounts and access can be made. However, there is little to it if it is difficult for the relevant person to learn the contents of the annual bill. As a result, we stress the importance of his offering them too in Icelandic. Hv. A senator refers to a person's review of its particular cost and argues that annual accounts may often be complex. Like what? A senator may mention dozens of pages with many explanations. That's right, and I'm not gonna doubt that any cost may be involved in translating annual accounts, such as. in a business like that. A senator mentioned, but the cost should be the first time it is made. Then there are limited changes, though they are some. If some company had a chance to translate a year's account into Icelandic, I'd think it would be a big, powerful business like that. A senator mentioned earlier, Marel. But I think it's also important to remember that the bill we deal with ensures that the originals of the year can be placed in English. Because as the law is today, it's not quite clear. With the bill presented here, we can secure the possibility and, therefore, facilitate these companies' competitiveness by keeping the originals of the annual account in English. I reiterate that an Icelandic copy will also be transmitted to a annual bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u36	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answers. I'm not necessarily sure the cost is beyond the core of my language. I have no doubt that a well-sized company does not necessarily regret this money in this. But we also have smaller companies, which apply to us. As the review points out, many things make a big difference, and some say that it is rather important to try to subtract the paperwork and the demand for a business to improve the competitiveness. This is one of the many factors to consider. I have no doubt that it is the right thing to say in the review of these sources that the need for the word in Icelandic is no one. The question is, Why should people be obliged to satisfy a demand that is not? That's the point of what I'm saying, that it seems to me that this case is not needed, i.e. This part of it. Of course, the other is essential and is good to understand clearly that men can have their accounts in English.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u37	A respectable president. In the case of the guests who wrote this report, they did not consider the annual bill demand in Icelandic, in view of the fact that at a particular time these companies could have submitted annual accounts only for the change made in June 2016. If so, no one would have requested a year's account in Icelandic. I don't know how to explain it any more, but I just want to stress that this is a change from what's happening today, since these companies can't return their annual accounts and have their originals in English. They must have it in Icelandic according to the interpretation of the annual accounts and we are opening this possibility. They say: We should go further, and we should not demand an Icelandic copy for annual accounts. This was discussed in the committee. As noted earlier, most of us in the Committee agreed on the importance of the submission of annual accounts in Icelandic. I have to say frankly, I don't even think there's any more part here at the council for a change, as shown in the bill, if an Icelandic copy is not required for annual accounts. Hv. A senator once said that he did not consider this to be the best possible conclusion, but I think that this is the best possible conclusion because it guarantees the competitiveness of Icelandic companies in a special position where they need the originals of their annual accounts in English. But as I say, we also apply the importance of the Icelandic copy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u38	Mr. President. Now it has been noted that a discussion in the Committee was followed by the review of a business council and several companies reporting their annual reports in English and Icelandic today, as to whether it would not be reasonable to cancel a requirement for an Icelandic translation. I'm on a committee party without any warning because I think the findings of the committee are basically correct. Still, I feel that there is a reason to make such a statement, for it is quite true that it would have been possible to come to the right conclusion. There's a few things that go wrong. This is the case with the idea of defending and securing the place of the Icelandic language. There are ideas about whether people who want to study the annual reports would know English to the full in order to understand them. On the other hand, there are questions about the cost. But I have to say, I have extremely limited sympathy for the cost of it. It's, as mentioned in the question of who. paritaprevir Butts of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, a limited cost for an enterprise of the order of magnitude, and it comes primarily through the creatives that occur in the first year, which certainly means that the first year will be more expensive. But once we reach this degree, it may not be the main point. On the contrary, I don't think this is necessarily the right place to defend the Icelandic language. You see, there is no more English today than there are today. No more have been studying Icelandic today. There have never been so many technical solutions to support Icelandic as a language. I'm not convinced that this is the right place to defend our language. For people who intend to study these annual reports, I suspect that all those who have financial locks to pass through the thick annual reports of some sense also have considerable understanding in English, since they would not be doing international business in today's world without it. That's where I think there's a certain balance between viewpoints. But then comes what I think is the most important point that matters a little bit. It's not exactly the cost of an enterprise, it's a mess. We have only seen in these last days how serious it is that the European economy is few with limited size and limited variety. There are countless examples. I've talked to people at foreign companies who might consider moving a service station to Iceland, having a business here, and at the same time increasing our fleas, making our economy longer and more resistant to beatings. There are countless examples of this. There's a lot of interest in Iceland for various reasons. Sometimes it is because of natural resources. Sometimes it is because of our link and location with both Europe and North America. There are all kinds of reasons. But when a company learns the possibility of serving here, it is a big challenge to them. And there's a great cost to the mess. I have criticized that cost before. There are countless fees that are burdensome. There are countless other blocks that need to be overcome; the legal pressure to start a business, let alone a successful business, is considerable. I want to mean, without really investigating this, that he is considerably greater than in similar countries, or rather, in countries we would like to compare ourselves with. If so, then the question is, Can we not take advantage of the opportunity to get rid of this divisive point? Perhaps it is to stop making a requirement for Icelandic translation of annual accounts not necessarily a giant leap in that direction. However, it is one of the steps we could take that other countries have taken, such as the Netherlands, as Denmark, as many European countries have taken, simply to make it more attractive to expand our economy. At least that seems to be a big enough question and an important enough question. Although we may not go into it in this particular bill, we should go to it as everyone first to identify who the stocks are for business, nation and abroad, who want to start business here, who want to go into expanding our economy and do good things here. We should do so with a view to removing as much of the complications that are unnecessary as possible. I suggest that the question of bill translation be one of those factors, although it is probably a minor part of the big context. Regarding the suggestion that solution, a greater proportion of all annual accounts are based on standard forms. It is natural to vary from company to enterprise, which, in turn, may have been developed a long time ago, hundreds more if not thousands of years ago, and in itself, it has not changed much. To make a clear number of annual bills is something we can do technologically. We can fully define specific fields in a specific machine language that computers can understand and then have standard translations into the meaning of certain words. That is something we do in computers all over the world today. That is why you can take your phone and carry it in English one minute and in less than half a second later. You can simply adjust it. If we can use the same approach to uproot this problem with annual accounts by automatic means, the main item that remains is in the footnotes and explanations that sometimes follow. They're, I think, a little complicated anyway, and I'm sure they could be in English because people who don't have financiallocks to figure them out in Icelandic will also not be in trouble somewhere else [so]. There's a lot of positive things in the lake to companies in Iceland. Of course, this is a minor factor to most of them. My sympathy for these small costs is not great, but I have a great sense of sympathy for companies who have to go through the complexity that exists in the Icelandic economy. There's a problem we need to fix, and I suggest we fix it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u39	Mr. President. I'm not going to have a big deal about this, but maybe it's not a big deal. It is good for this bill that there is an effort to sharpen interpretation so that there is a clearer date for the company to move the account into English and when it is not. It seems, however, that we are still pursuing an excessive tribulation made by 2016's change of law. In the ground, I can't tell what a problem's going on here. We have several international companies here, though. We should want to make the environment of the most efficient, to operate international activities in this country, and we must be able to trust the executives in order to assess the language of their main activity and whether they will do their annual accounts in English or Icelandic. This seemed to be easy or easy before these sources were tighted by the 2016 law. All these companies did in English alone, returning only a year's account in English, and they didn't seem much to complain about it. So I don't see any particular need to make companies require that they move their annual accounts in English if they also translate them into Icelandic. I don't see that the protection line of our beloved language is being drawn there, in which language a year's accounts are returned to annual accounts. The main reason we must aim is that the work environment of the international companies in this country is not unnecessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u40	Mr. President. I recommend here to the Committee's list of changes to the bill in terms of changing the licenses of vehicles, fuels, car bills, and credit laws. It's on the roof. 359. The Economic and Business Committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by a representative from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, customs managers, the Garage Union, and the Icelandic car owner's partner. The main objective of the bill is to respond to changes in the system used to measure and record carbon dioxide emissions of vehicles, i.e. the recording of a new system called the ◯ covalent test method, which replaces the system that has been used so far, which is in the bill called the European Driving Cycles. A bill shows that, on average, vehicles are measured by 21% more carbon dioxide emissions by the new system than by the old, where the use of products takes into account measured emissions regardless of the system used according to current legislation. Thus, unless the law was changed, the change would result in substantial payoffs on imported vehicles. So the objective of the bill is to include. to prevent conflicting with taxation of vehicles, depending on which method is used for the registration of emissions. In addition, the bill has provided changes in some of the factors. The definition of vans, the extracting of electrically powered golf cars, etc. The bill is not to influence the income of a government fund. In between four and five. The bill is measured for the provisional terms of the product law and for the calculation of the product tax on a vehicle that has only been measured according to the agreed test method and brought to the country from the establishment of the bill until January 1 until the second, when Article 1 and 3. The bill, which contains the new calculation rules of the product tax, is accepted. In this period, the calculation of the vehicle's product charge, which has only been measured according to the agreed test method at a 17.36% lower release rate than the documented carbon dioxide emissions of the vehicle, should be determined. At a meeting with the Committee, representatives of the Driver's Association pointed out that the period between the screening of the bill and that the next year's conventions were written according to the validated test method, but were recorded according to both methods. Already there would be considerable increase in prices for this reason, while vehicles fell into a higher category of merchandise by recording the integrated test method. This results in a large imbalance in the annual parking market when a new calculation method works. Because of this, the relationship was suggested that in the course of the year-to-year recovery period not only will the number of vehicles with only documented emissions per the standard product calculation method but also the vehicles using both methods. As a result of this, the Commission requested a response from the customs manager, but the review of which he sent the commission stated that any new automobile brought in until the end of the year would have to be handled by hand. This would mean a significant delay in tax payment. It would not be advisable to engage in programming work to solve the problem because of the short duration of the proposal and the interference of the current job in preparing the main elements of the bill in the Toll Manager's computer system. Toll manager believes that a substantial portion of imported automobiles until the end of the year would not increase despite the lack of action, as it would be completely unclear that the calculated emissions of both methods resulted in a spontaneous rise. It has also been noted that the same problem that has been described above is true in our neighboring countries, where it has not been specifically addressed outside the country of Denmark, where it has not been used. is beginning to deliver the transfer of transferred vehicles to owners in the post-contracted period, but for the recording of an updated product calculation method allow for reimbursement of the difference. The Commission has considered whether and in what way to react to these views of the Carmunology relationship, and they plan to follow the events, suggesting that this material should be proposed after the 2nd Environment. V.E.G. President. In view of this, I wish the bill would go back to what. The Economic and Business Committee is between the 2nd and 3rd. So we can win this thing better. Commenting on the matter, the Committee called attention to electrically powered vans used for freight transport that would not be the same indiscriminate to other electric vehicles, such as motorcycles and golf cars, as the bill would not be legal. The committee feels that electrically powered trucks have the same price charge as they do, as they also apply to the same view of stimulating action to promote energy exchange. Sets the committee to this extent that electrically powered trucks are added to the list of 1st sector 4. track No. 29/1993. At the same time, the Commission proposes to enhance the definition of the trans-motive vehicle by de-cutting the word ◯ Mainly from the B-tee 2.g. The bill. In the 3rd. The bill is a guide for the 5th paragraph. Taxifications should be passed, but the article is concerned with the intention of tax pay on human cars to transport people, driving cars, and special transportation equipment. Code 3 mgr. contains basic conditions that the applicant needs to meet. According to 6 mg. The loss of a buyer's right to benefit from a price, according to the three - year article, shows that the conditions 3 mg. has not been met during the stress of the product tax. The Toll manager's review suggests a warning effect of 6 mg. will increase so that it reaches not only the conditions but also the whole article. Because of this, the Commission proposes a series of changes that follow up with the Committee's committee on changing proposals. Plus, it's 7 mg. The same points of toll manager authorized to collect a full product charge, plus 50% stress, when a car is used for something else, which is intended according to the article. It has been noted that it would be better to collect as such an opportunity rather than as a permit. At the same time, it has been suggested that there will be changes in the arrangement of the public collection. And, according to a new arrangement, collects in the hands of the tax collector, not tollman, but to state funds. Since the laying of the price is in the hands of a customs manager, the office is in order that the wording of the command be directed toward the application rather than to collect. Under these circumstances, the committee will take over. As mentioned earlier, there are changes in suggestions that I will not specifically review in other ways than those mentioned above. Harðardóttir G. Hardyddótttir and Smári Mccarthy sign this in advance, which contributes to the importance of carbon dioxide emissions, the role of goods, and the potential impact on the import of unsolved cars. The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson was absent from the case, but he signed by authority at 4 mg. 18th par. Orders of staff members of the Generals. Under the titled writings, Óli Björn Kárason, and besides Bryndís, the daughter of Haraldsdóttir, Bribbur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Oddný G.. The daughter of Harðardóttir, in advance, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Sigmundur the son of Davíð Gunnlaugsson, Smári Mccarthy, with a warning, Þorsteinn the Víglundsson of Walundur, and Þórunn the Egilsdóttir of Eglur.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u41	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator of history. I have one short query for why. Senator. Il. section of the bill is proposed to change the automobile charge law by subsequent changes. I'm curious to know if archaic cars will fall under there. Will they now pay the price of automobiles? In case of a moment. A senator could tell me about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u42	Thank you. A senator very much. True, I have not been a big fan of ancient cars. I'm more interested in old tractors, but there's another case and this other thing. But my understanding is that car cars, from here on, will pay the rest of the car fee. That's how I understand the bill. I've been divorced since the first time. To be honest, I was expecting it to come, e.g. Notes from the local antiquities club in Iceland, but that didn't happen. I think I'm right in saying that the owners of an ancient car will be left behind, like other car owners paying car bills.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u43	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. It is surprising that interested people like Iceland's Ancient Amateur Club have not made any comments because I've talked to some members and they all say they're very unhappy about this. I just wondered, " Has this company been missing? ' I think there's a range of 7,700 to 1,000 members in this company. Many of these vehicles, if this is the case and this bill is targeted, will carry a fairly high cost of automobiles. Then you ask, " Am I right to tax my interests in this way? ' Because many of these automobiles, ancient automobiles, are used very short time each year, even two or three months just during the summer period, paying the high cost of automobiles, which may very likely be well over 100,000 dollars. every year. There is a possibility that the vehicle, e.g., might be recorded. at the end of the summer time, and don't pay the price, which means disaster, both for the Association and for those who are concerned. In addition, it costs to dissociate or deposit the numbers, as the call is, and then take them out again. So I would like to encourage the committee to look into this further, because this is a matter of opinion. I know that many ancient car owners disagree with this and would have wanted to make comments, but for some reason it did not. [[The president calls.]] I think it was for some kind of misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u44	Mr. President. I think it's right for us senators to draw more attention to public and community groups, such as the ancient automobile club, to say that everyone has the right to pass the reviews of any bill or synopsis that are being discussed in committees. However, I listened attentively to a matter. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, son of Thorin. I requested, Mr. President that the case be returned to the committee between the 2nd and 3rd. It is only natural, then, for the committee to discuss whether there is any basis for such changes without any promise. True, I generally approve of keeping old things and walking about with respect. I don't find anything more fun than seeing an old car that's well thought of, except in case it's a tractor. However, that must also be the case, and it is natural that such automobiles also play a role in the common cost of socializing. So let us discuss this seriously and honestly with the committee and listen to the evidence presented here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u45	Mr. President. I'm gonna keep this brief. I made an advance of the Commission's opinion on the environmental grounds of the question of whether goods should not be used more fully to encourage the import of more fueled cars. I don't know, and I don't have a very strong opinion as to whether the goods of per se are the right grounds to encourage protection from nature. It was after thinking about the committees that, of course, you should try to get these environmental issues to the most part of the world. I'm glad that this case goes back to the Committee between the 2nd and 3rd. so that perhaps there will be a chance to discuss it a little further. I suspect, though, that some kind of economic impulse is needed to trigger the electrical vehicle system in earnest to reduce the impulse to import unsolved cars. We are still very stabbed to death by having experienced the so - called Dieselgate Valley a few years ago, where producers of cars actually cheated with their pollution certificates. While this may not directly be the case, the problem is that an electric vehicle cannot cheat emissions, yet it is one of the things that we can rejoice about if the electric car's really started. The committee noted a specific problem that involves the actual cost of fuel and long - driving electricity only about 10%, which means that the economic incentive to drive electricity rather than gasoline is only 10%. In addition, electricity cars are still much more expensive today, despite a fine discount of merit taxation. In some way, we need to think about this completely. There's been a lot of talk about the other one being done, and this to encourage electrical trouble. I know some of them are nuts. Senators are driving electrical cars today. We have a very high percentage in Iceland compared with other countries and with the growth that has taken place. If there's no greater motivation than this, we need at least to discuss whether the fees could be applied more fully, whether any other impulse should be both negative and positive, but in any case, that will hopefully be discussed between 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u46	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy. It's fun to have a conversation about what's in the Senate, that's live stuff. I think we're right next door. A senator that, of course, should view the charges and their nature, just as I think it should be in relation to other forms of law and taxes and the fees placed on transport as well as the use of cars here, either fuel or otherwise. We have here, for example. Just discussing whether to introduce more effectively. I've declared that I believe that men will pay more for use. Perhaps we should start that discussion further. I know it's the highest. A secretary of transportation has something to consider. I think the whole pay system, when it comes to driving, needs to be reimbursed, remuneration, and everything else, but I'm convinced that it doesn't take much incentive from the tax system to achieve the goal of Iceland's electrical vehicle in a relatively short period of time. That's gonna happen. The technology will take us there. The electric cars will be cheaper, and the rest of the house's massage will make a decision for us and say to us, "Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy, now we're selling our diesel helmets and buying a electric truck.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u47	Mr. President. Yeah, I'll agree with that. Of course, I drive by myself on a hybrid car and I usually try to walk. Nevertheless, it is the case that in this discussion, as well as most of the environmental discussion, we face conflict between domestic subsidies and environmental issues. I'm afraid, for example. that roads, although they can certainly be an attempt to reduce the use of cars, come out as a poor tax of the kind that people usually don't have a choice whether they drive to work or not. It is also true that the less money a person earns, the longer the distance between home and workplace averages. There are certain factors that interfere. I can totally agree with the importance of weightier cars, trucks, and similar products, that it would be a good idea from the environmental point of view, as well as simply by the weight of the roads. When we're looking at these things, I think that positive influences to help the homes and the house massages make a good decision to park the diesel and get an electric car is something we should definitely look at. This 10% difference quickly declined and is likely to reduce more as the energy companies see that more people do not survive without getting power cars. At some point, there's some low point where those who are thinking about buying new electric cars need to think: Maybe it pays to hold on to the diesel truck for a few more years. That's this space I want to minimize.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u48	V.E.G. President. You're right next door. Senator, I think the ideologies behind the defense are a child of their own time. They will slowly disappear, more or less, at least When it comes to people's cars, no matter what we do here, they won't be the income share we're talking about. We face this challenge, and hopefully it will enter the table of members of the council now seated at ease. The Economic and Business Committee is taking a position on how we're going to form a driving system. Road chairs are just one of many ideas. If they're going to build here a round-and-pass taxation system to achieve certain objectives, e.g. On climate issues, why don't we get involved? It'll be more complicated, but not insoluble. We've already had a presentation on the Economic and Business Committee for specific suggestions on how to change the remuneration system. As I mentioned earlier, I have the highest priority. A transport minister is working to determine if and how and in what way it is wise to implement these charges based on road use. I'm generally in favor of paying for what they're using, but they're not paying for what they don't use. I'll think about it. A senator will join me in that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u49	Mr. President. This, in any case, is a reason for much deeper discussion. Road chairs, as they have been proposed by the highest power. A career minister and his predecessor do not think of me in the form they have been mentioned, but as I say, there are some kind of weight - bearing automobiles, trucks, and similars, well possibles, and especially if we take into account the potential of greenhouse effects involved, i.e. EU/1/11/715/001 According to that, I would like us to take up the approach to try to punish as least consumers before the climate. The climate is subject to an attack by all mankind, but large companies are primarily causing this damage, and it is the state of state coming into it with strong rules. If we dropped this on consumers, that would be progress. Then perhaps my vision of international business is a bit liberal. In case of a moment. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kálmson suggested tomorrow that we detract from the amount of product we're paying, but then we're going to waive on cars to some sort of carbon and emissions-related extra tax, which would be not tax, but carbon tax, or something like that, I'd just celebrate. That'd be great. Payback is a child of his time. A senator says. This is unnecessary and distracts our international dealings. We will not be able to correct them as we can.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u50	A respectable president. I recommend here for a bill to legalize mail services. The bill includes an overall review of the mail law, No. 19/2002, its main entry into private rights for the post office and insurance for the minimum e - mail service or the so - called public service. The bill complies with the 2008/6/EC protocol, which is often referred to as the third mail directive. There are three things I think it is right to appear at the outset before I have a discussion of the bill's subject. First, I'd like to mention that the third mail directive has not been recorded in the EEA Convention. Nevertheless, all Member States in the European Economic Area have taken away the government's exclusive rights, excluding Iceland. For example, in 2016, Norway's exclusive rights were removed. Secondly, in view of the last year's discussion of the state of Iceland e-mail, I think the bill is not about the business of Iceland e-mails hf. Third and last, I want to note that the management environment of the postal service has changed substantially in recent years. The general number of letters has been substantially reduced. Thus, by 2017 letters from nearly 60 million in 2008 to over 20 million letters have been sent in private rights and are rapidly decreasing. Part of the trend up to now, and likely continued reductions in letters have normal and, in most respects, positive causes. Thus, changes in communication and communication skills have increasingly moved information from printer mediums to digital media. This is especially true of a standard letter of less than 50 grams [50 g]. E - mail, Internet information, social media, and so forth have long ago replaced the traditional printed or handwritten letters. One of the main reasons for the initiative project Iceland is light - related as the State strengthens fiber - optic development in rural communities across the country is to improve the communication between individuals and companies outside urban areas. Thus, national access to the information community and, at the same time, to any digital type of service, can be balanced. This includes access to digital data previously available only using standard mail. The last agreement with rural society is scheduled on the basis of Iceland's lightline at the beginning of 2020, and the state will have committed up to $3.1 billion on the project in comparison with similar or higher combined rural contributions, users, communications companies, depending on the events. With improved communications and transportation in recent years, the importance of the local mail service has diminished, in particular in distribution of conventional messages, such as the broadcast of accounts, remunerations, and so on. So by means of electronic communication, mail services are not the same as they used to be. However, I would like to make it clear that the postal services still play an important role, especially for the job, and will be an essential part of the online trade. A respectable president. I think it's time to swerve key elements of the bill. Its chapter 1 explains the objective of the bill, set of values and comments. It suggests that the target of the bill is to promote more efficient, effective, and reliable mail services across the country, throughout the country, and from the country. by ensuring users access to public services as defined at any given time and by promoting market competition for mail service. Il. the section of the bill is a standard authority to provide mail services. Job mail services are expected not to be allowed in this country, such as it has been, but to be registered. Thus, legislators who have confirmed in the European Economic Area or in the Member States of the International Business Agency will have general authority to provide mail services in both the country and the country, to meet the criteria of the bill. Public authorization includes the right to operate mail services according to the requirements of the bill and the regulations set out in accordance with these requirements. The requirements of general authority are set in such a way that they are not to be inhibited or to keep them from performing the ministry. In III. section of the bill is an understatement for services. A service has been defined as a minimum service for which all users in the country have the right, regardless of their location and appropriate price. Public services include both national and international mails. The bill suggests that a corresponding service should be offered to users living in comparable circumstances and services at any given time should take into account technology and community development, economic factors and the needs of users. All services include access to shops and mailboxes. For example, a deportation site may be a mail vehicle. It is suggested that all services include mail services for letters of up to two kilograms, packing up to 10 pounds [10 kg] within the country, and shipments for blind and impaired vision, up to two pounds [20 kg]. Changes in the initial application procedure are not anticipated and remains based on the spread of two active days per week. This includes an all-time obligation to ensure that mailboxes that are supported by an international service are emptied at least twice weekly or mobilisation should be in accordance with the number of distribution days in the respective territory, taking into account the demand for the ministry. When selecting a service employer who is obliged to perform an public service, a minister may conduct three procedures according to the bill. First of all, a contract with a particular mail driver with general authority, secondly by forwarding mail drivers or third by sending out invitations. There is a delay in the export of the bill, and it is likely that the method of negotiation will be tested before any appointments are made. The bill is based on the best option for all services to be offered simply on market grounds. If an employee believes that a public service carries a burden, he may seek to recover the loss from a trust fund. This will be discussed in detail in the bill and based on European rules for calculating what is called the full - time service burden. Chapters IV and V discuss access to distribution systems and the necessary facilities, stamps and tags, e - mail plates, business conditions, registrations, and records of an alcoholists. I don't think there's any need for further attention in this section. However, it is proper for a respectable president to stop at VI's. section of the bill on the requirements of services and quality. The chapter contains many regulations, such as quality requirements, standards, the safety of mails, mail access, and so on. There is also a provision for unforgiving mass shipments, a new one. Some inhabitants of the country have already marked their letter boxes or letters with an announcement that they deplore multiple e - mail without the obligation of mail drivers to respect such markings. This bill is suggested to correct it. The bill suggests that mail drivers will be obliged to respect the user markings that the recipient does not want unsolicited number of messages, such as multi-mail, free sheets, or general company presentations. However, this does not apply to the notifications of hosts in which temporary services from services are being reported and therefore similar. This is not relevant for government-election presentations, community announcements to its citizens and government reports for public safety and public security. Mail drivers are expected to keep a list of those who do not want a number of e-mails, as it has been. The rest of the bill listed in section VII, on the treatment of complaints and damages, and on a number of measures, must be considered standardised. However, I would like to call attention to the regulations of the bill, which are detailed. It is, in fact, there. Suggested that a minister be permitted to implement the Council Regulation and Council Regulation No. 2018/644 for cross-border packages, Icelandic. It is suggested that this be done in a Regulation when the European Commission Regulation has been introduced into the European Commission Convention on the European Economic Area. Similar induction methods were used when the European Union's so - called catacombs were introduced into Icelandic correctly, as 2 mgr. Thirty-five. A telecommunication. Finally, it should call attention to the regulations of the bill, but it is assumed to be legal by the bill on January 1, 2020. A respectable president. I've been explaining the subject of the bill in general and suggesting that the bill be followed by this discussion referred to why. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u51	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for an excellent review of this matter. As we all know, there are constantly changes in our society, and it will apply to the mail service as well as it does. There has been a significant reduction in the number of mail services recently, just in line with modern times. There are changes in the way they live and changes in the way they communicate. But I wondered, " Will the inhabitants of the country be confronted with some deterioration in their service? ' Is there a danger of that? How, then, will it be? Now we know that it is not always a market manager, that it is not very desirable to serve a certain area. And I'd also like to wonder about this bill which law applies to foreign mails, when the Icelandic law takes over. Will they be replaced by any other law? Here, too, is the dominant international agreement, and we're talking about what's called the end-of-the-end fees. If a minister could go over it for me. I've heard people wonder. I don't think I'm bringing you anything else.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u52	A respectable president. So I'll answer the second part of the question which. paritaprevir Þórunn Egilsdóttir then retains Icelandic law in Iceland, but in many ways we are subject to the Constitution of the International e-mail Union in particular, which puts a registration on the e.g. Packings from country to country. Therefore, this bill is being reacting and trying to have more flexibility for Icelandic mail distribution and to take the normal price for those packages. Of course, it is not normal for package delivery, e.g. From a Chinese Internet store, the subsidized by Icelandic taxpayers compete with local trades. It's very important to deal with it. Regarding the first question about the state of the country with regard to the ministry, that is exactly what the bill defines as a service, minimal service. It is comparable to the services being performed today, except that removing the exclusive rights is opening up to people in some area that may be useful in improving the ministry can take on an all - time service in that area on market grounds. They may be able to improve their ministry. It is very likely that this is happening where the urban population is most likely to become more competitive in the hands of different people, that there may be an increase in days of espionage, or some change in the ministry, and hopefully for the better. It's also possible for the country to be inhabited. But the bill ensures that minimal service is always granted, and it is also guaranteed in the bill that the same price for the transmissions under the services, wherever it is. I think there's a very important part of the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u53	V.E.G. President. I want to thank the Minister for these answers. How important it is to hear that we secure the worldwide ministry! In fact, a minister answered the question that I had next asked about whether the mail fee should be the same throughout the country. That's clearly guaranteed, and that's good. That's in agreement, then, with us talking about equality to all over the country. You've been talking about that if you suddenly get the point where you need parts, there's a drought, and you need parts now, you could get a phone call and get the parts sent. I know it's not very common, but the circumstances have come up. Is there any way to meet this? And then I thought about something else. In the scattered areas of the country, we may be driving one pack, one child, one passenger, something else, we have a variety of services. Does this bill open the possibility of integrating other services in our rural communities, so that we'll better use the services we have available? This service may make it easier for someone to accept it if it can be integrated and used with others. I know that there's been an experiment, and I think I'm sure it's true that in the whole city of the East, men have been able to integrate and expand their ministry. I think it's a very positive thing that you can adapt to this society because there are certainly different needs, what's right in place. I hope that this bill on the Committee is going well, and I wish it well, and I stress that we are looking overall in its construction and hope that it will benefit us all the best.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u54	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator with interesting questions. You're right. You're right. I know that after the work that the bill has done, consultation and dealings with various stakeholders, men have in the country, including The local community was concerned that this service, already two days a week in the whole country, could cause trouble, would be neglected to form parts of the product in a short period of time. It does not change in itself. The basic service will be the same. Of course, it is proper to point out that both fast transport companies and rural vehicles are able to transport such goods, even home, short notice, if Iceland is not in position as a result of a two - day distribution date or something. There is also a law in the bill, which answers the second question. A senator who allows transportation companies, public transportation, bus companies, or others to transport this mail. By canceling Iceland's private rights ehf. this is being opened up for further opportunities to provide better service. I know that in some parts of the country, people have taken such action. In individual smaller communities, such mail services have even been installed. I think I know that's the way it is at Bolungarvík, and there's also Blue Bank in Thyatira. It's such a thought, how we can guarantee more service in my places, it's being opened for it. Of course, with regard to the posting fee, we have spent billions of dollars on fiber - optics of the country in rural areas in Iceland to ensure rapid, electronic distributions and access to electronic services. Nevertheless, it is also defined that there is the same mail fee in all parts of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u55	Mr. President. Thank you very much. His minister forebearance. An article with the bill says that the bill has a long lead, which is the result of changes in EU mail regulations, including changes in mail services. is to open the postmark for competition by removing private rights in the field of mail services. It also says that one of the main aims of EU mail legislation is to define all users' access to the so - called public service, i.e. Basic mail service. I don't know any better than access to users that the mail base service was nice when the business was in the government's hands and better than it is today. So again and again we need to let the European Union tell us what is really important to us and especially to the country. Once again, we see that there is no regard for the situation in this country. We know that the delivery of letters in remote places, such as, for example, will prove to be late and bad. ... ina home eastoftheEnglands. The Norwegian government long opposed the implementation of the directive and would have benefited from this discussion. As discussed earlier, there has always been a worsening of the postal service in this country, especially in the rural areas. Most towns and villages used to have post offices. When the 2002 law went into effect and the mail service was made to an official partner, with Iceland's office, post office was immediately closed, and small mail stores were opened at gas stations. Today, this gas station has been shut down, and one post office is now serving several communities. It is clear, therefore, that the main objective of EU mail legislation on the constant access of users to basic services has been across the country, just as the EU energy package is so impressed by the government. The only thing these energy packages have delivered to us Icelanders is higher electricity prices to consumers, and especially to inhabitants of the country that fuel their houses with electricity. It's a different and bigger case that I'm going to set up when the government measures the implementation of a third EU energy package here at the General Assembly. The rural population has concluded of a continuing worsening mail service. In recent years, workers in post - mail services in many parts of the country have been laid off. For example, in small towns, at Capaskers, and in Redfarves, this has had a powerful effect. People who have worked in the mail service even need to move away in order to look for employment. This, in turn, has a chain effect on schools and other activities. Changes in driving in the country have been made and are worse. In the past, mail was received on the same trip. Today, newspapers arrive later, and there are other things to mention. It would have been a great opportunity to invite the European Commission on a field trip to Iceland and to the country to monitor the mail service as it is today. They might then be able to see in white how the service is, how their directive has affected the country. It would be nice to know if they would accept this service in their country; get mail even once a week; get old newspapers in their mailboxes, etc. Mr. President. The report says that Iceland is the only state of the European Economic Area that has not taken away the exclusive rights of mail service and thereby introduced the third mail directive. The bill suggests that it be done. It also says that all - service will still be assumed to be loyal to citizens and will seek to do so as the most practical means for the Icelandic state in terms of society's needs. This will be done in order to allow one or more mail drivers to be selected, according to the rules requested by the bill to perform a service duty. Now I ask: Isn't this new arrangement, which is described and proclaimed, just keep the service getting worse? There are precedents that Iceland has been prepared with a business manager who didn't quite work out. Fame is famous, for example. The mail service in Varmahlide and Hofsose back then. The second secretary of transportation, Sturla Böðvarsson, made himself, e.g. I went to the land of Tahlf, and checked the mail service in Varmahlu. Found a minister of the post office below all caves and outcasts, as he himself put it. It revealed that the mail and even responsible transmissions were in drifters that were available to all, and next to them were oils, screws, rubber gloves, and flasks. Is it not possible that these new operators, who are intending to negotiate, will allow the country to run away? Then, as the bill says, there may be ways to ensure that the ministry is maintained. This situation can always arise and will ensure that the service will become unacceptable in certain areas. Clearly, when it comes to certain areas of the country, the procedure will be made with the service employers. It is vital that consumer interests are guided by the practicality of such activities. Switching unrewarded operators is also an adverse event for consumers. Mr. President. I'm afraid this bill, which includes removing the exclusive rights of the postal service, will lead to an even greater deterioration in national mail service. There has always been a need for some of this service, but it is a legal service to be performed. The country's settlement is not going to meet the rest. Finally, Mr. President. We want to keep the country built, and effective mail service is an important part of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u56	Mr. President. I come up here because of their words. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, son of Thorin, said that the mail service in Iceland has grown worse and he wants to blame the European Union. He believes that the European Union, which he clearly finds as far as possible, has brought about such a terrible mail service in Iceland. I can't quite figure out how the senator will connect it that way because, of course, we're dealing with this third mail directive involved in removing the exclusive, but it hasn't taken effect. That's what's being done right now. I wondered, " How does the senator come to feel that the service has gone so bad in recent years - that Iceland's post is as bad as the fact that the European Commission is teaching many of the contracts with the I.A.S.A. on their misbehaviour - is all of a European Union to blame? ' Still, I realize that it is. Thus, a member of the Parliament and his party are responsible for a good relationship with him on matters that go wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u57	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I think we can all agree that the mail service is getting worse. It's a bad thing, and we need to fix it where possible. In my speech, I mentioned that it would be very useful in this discussion to get Norwegian opinions on this directive. The Norwegians for a long time refused to implement the directive, even because of that. that they believed that the situation in Norway was in a way that did not fit. Now that there was a government trade in Norway, the matter became a vote, as we know it. The result was that the directive was accepted. The point is, this is a directive that we need to implement through the European Economic Area and the concept comes from the European Union. That's for sure. Unchecking the fact that the state is running mail services comes from the European Union. It can easily be concluded, and we can see that the mail service was better when it was in the hands of the State. It's just a fact. Postal service was then in local communities. There were post office houses. This service has been reduced constantly, and as I mentioned earlier, one post office has begun to serve some communities. This is quite clear, and the directive is from the European Union, and it must conclude that this has caused what we see to make the service worse.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u58	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer, however, is not entirely understandable. Today's post-office, Iceland, is, of course, an official government partner, so today's postal service, is in the hands of the government, and it has gone back very much over the past decade by the government. Well, we're the people responsible for Iceland, whether we like it or not. When you look at the situation there and look back into time - we have been considering it at the moment. The Environment and Transport Committee, the director of the Management Board and are looking for answers - Iceland is in serious trouble. It is a special research project on how the business there has been in the past few years, a combination of competitiveness and operating in private rights. Most European countries undertook private rights in 2011. Norway decided to wait to introduce this directive for five years, then 2016. There must be some reason why Norway decides to do so then. We have not, however, done so all this time. It's been seven years since, and we're in the middle of seeing that Iceland's mail business has had absolutely nothing to do with it. They're borrowing money again, I think, for some reason. I don't know why they don't go to their business banks. The service has continued to get worse without our implementing this directive so that I don't fully understand how the senator does it to teach a directive that has not been introduced in the current employment and operation of Iceland's mail.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u59	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Hv. A senator introduced exactly what I mentioned about Norway, how beneficial it would have been to receive that discussion here in this council hall. Norway felt that it could not fit in with their territory and territory to bring in this directive, and they took this delay, as it were. A senator mentioned. It would have been very helpful to get into this discussion. The point of the matter, mentioned in my speech, is that I am very afraid that this change, in which it will be completely opened, will lead to further deterioration of the ministry. Sports scare these things, huh? Senator, that's what I stressed. It's an order from the European Union. We know that things were different. True, certain areas of territory will always be difficult to accomplish. We're the busiest country there is. Then you ask yourself, " Does this cause us to become less demeaning, or is it about to open up and negotiate with someone else who is not? ' As I mentioned in my talk, the tracks scare these matters. I fear it, and say it again and again, that this may lead to the service getting worse, and we must not live at all. I hope so. A senator realizes that, and I think she will. There is a danger that services may get worse. As I rightly mentioned at the end of my talk, we would like to keep our country inhabited, and it is a powerful and useful postal service.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u60	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. I'd like to mention some of the things that were presented in the council members' speeches. It's probably passed by. Þórarinsson We are not letting the European Union tell us what to do. It's not an introduction bill. The email directive is not yet included in the EEA Convention. However, all Member States have removed the European Economic Area from its exclusive rights in the mail service, except Iceland, and Norway did so in 2016. The State's exclusive right to mail service is a child of its time. This arrangement has been canceled in all parts of Europe. In previous times, the private rights guaranteed mail services that were appointed as a full - time employee of enough income to be kept under the national demitiatory network of branch offices and distributed home to each house for most days of the week. The continuing reductions in the number of letters and demand, especially in conjunction with technological development, have resulted in some consistent management of branch sites and a reduction in distribution days in all European countries, instead of raising the budget for users of the service to an excessive extent or improving the loss of business by funded funds. The situation is now that the level of prices within the private rights is hardly sufficient or not at all to add the full - time service to the loss of income due to the reduction in the number of letters and the rest of the programme for eviction. In fact, there is a kind of vicious circle in which letters of mail are expected to continue to reduce the number of fees continued to rise. Of course, it is not possible to look to that time, if only we look to 2008, where there were 80 million letters. Today there are 20 million letters, and still the decrease continues. There was expected to be a 7% reduction this year. If I handle what I saw in the news correctly, quote Iceland's executives, then the reduction in the last two months has been 20% compared to the year before, not 7%. Of course, that is because we are using a different technology in our relationships. What we're doing here is canceling this private right, securing some competition, securing options in the country area to use other means of at least creating the current or possibly better service. In Sweden, however, all mail services are marketed, and mail services in Sweden do not need to be paid; they are distributed in this way. In the North, however, more and more money has been needed to repair the damage done to the public service employer in the area. Iceland is a large country, a rural country, and we had quite a number of branches here and there, including in my country, built up post office. Shortly after it was built, the commander of the mail, I guess it was back at the turn of the century, and he wanted to close it just a few years ago. Of course, everyone went crazy. I had a meeting with these agents, sitting in the countryside at the time. I think it was 1.5 places there, very good for society. There were, however, no letters, no letters. Senator, there were no packages. I can't believe it. In this sermon, a senator was suggesting that people keep out post office posts around the country with a lot of people, but there were no jobs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u61	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u62	Yeah, that's what I heard. I just had to accept that it was no longer the task under this mail service and this post office. The result was to turn it into something better and then become the town council, and there was a much better use for that house.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u63	A respectable president. I recommend here for a bill to legalise the scientific examination legislation, No. 44/2014. The Government Treaty states that health policy will be fully developed for Iceland, taking into account that the Icelandic health - care system should compares with what happens best in the world. One of the key health issues currently being carried out was discussed at the medical conference. Friday in a drawing, is strengthening scientific research in the field of health, as well as the work group I appointed specifically for the development of scientific policy. The bill presented here suggests that a minister will be allowed to set up a Regulation on the implementation of the Scientific Committee for the granting of applications to initiate or modify a scientific examination in the field of health, as per 1 and 2 mg. Section 12. The law. In order to support and contribute to the scientific research of students, it is suggested that there be a permit for abdication for the scientific research of students. This remuneration is intended to cover costs in evaluating applications for permission to initiate or modify a scientific examination in the field of health and should not exceed the actual cost of the ministry. The fee is designed to be a source of approval for members of the committee who carry out their ministry. The main reason for this payment is the following: On the one hand, it's about strengthening the management of the Scientific Committee and collecting a modest amount of payment for applying, which is consistent with the implementation of neighboring countries. However, the currency aims to improve the investigator's practice and candidates to allow them to have a well established protocol, but the scope of the application for improvement and changes in protocols has been increased. The number of cases at the Scientific Committee has steadily increased over the past few years, but budgets to the Committee have not increased in intensity. Thus, the financial situation of the Scientific Committee has been difficult to deal with in some way to ensure that the Committee can fulfill its obligations in the scientific research laws on health, No. 44/2014. In particular, the Scientific Committee has the responsibility to discuss and provide permission for medical research in order to ensure that it is compatible with scientific and ethical views and can bind the license for certain conditions. The Committee is also under law assigned tasks such as participating in a general and theoretical debate in the field of biology, providing counseling and published guidance on the subject of the Committee's work field, the monitoring of scientific research in the medical field, the implementation of tests that it has agreed on and direct recommendations to the responsible for study if it does not consider scientific research in the medical field to meet laws and regulations. A respectable president. The importance of public interest requires that there be a powerful scientific employment committee involved in the process of assessing the basis of scientific research in the field of health. Thus a powerful scientific committee will be involved in the interests of participants in scientific research. It is also important for health researchers to have effective scientific standards. For the scientific community, a strong and reliable scientific committee is important and increases confidence in the work of science in Iceland. The benefit of the approved bill is thus considered to outweigh the potential negative effects of reimbursement on investigators. A payment warrant, such as the one proposed by the bill, is known in our neighboring countries, but it is a similar payment in the North countries, with the exception of Norway. It's right to keep it in place here during the discussion. I'd like to find out in the history of the story that the bill was put in my consultations and there was only one comment, from the University of Iceland, from the National Sciences. The point of this review was that it would have to be guaranteed by the scientific research of students. This is done in a very clear way during the bill, with a special emphasis on it in addition to a report. However, the Scientific Committee suggested that there would be no validation for the changes in the study of students in science. It is therefore suggested in accordance with Regulation. Of course, such issues need to be considered. A welfare committee, but just as it is necessary to complete the Regulation. It is also true in this history to maintain that for other research and payment, a scientific committee is not available in other scientific fields other than field studies in the medical field, and therefore there is no exchange elsewhere. But here we are talking about a particularly extensive research project, as well as an parallel for the currency of the countries around us. I expect to have a good partnership with what's happened. The welfare committee on this matter. In some ways, it's cut and cut, but in some respects the problem, so I trust it to scurry. The welfare committee deals with it and puts into stitches on the grounds laid here. So, as a respectable president, I suggest that the bill be referred to the welfare committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u64	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. Minister for the speech and explanations of the bill. I want to say the bottom line. Ministers to a powerful Scientific Committee is of utmost importance, but varied, careful research and sound scientific research are also important. In a paper with the bill on impact assessment, the President's permission is: The number of applications to the Scientific Committee in 2017 can be expected to make a profit in the first year. K. It is estimated that in the beginning income will be higher than when the currency is established and it will be in the range of 38.6 million. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to that number. Why is it expected that this will ease the intensity of the situation? Is this because of the reaction to the charge on the impulse to investigate or what? I want to pray to the highest. Minister to review it. On the way, I would like to ask if university and other researchers were particularly affected, since as soon as we want a powerful scientific committee, we do not want the payer to have a greater impact on it and to cause the scientific research to become poorer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u65	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. The reason for the change in the evaluation is primarily because, in the case of the first applications, a large proportion of these applications are expected to be due to a change in plans. As a result of a special price for changing scientific research, the original application and research plans will be more specific. It is expected that this is primarily the reason for the cat's first practice, that he will run out of time or that he will have a significant impact on him. The number expected is based on the data of 2017, which refers to a new project of 216, of course 106; and in 2017, 307 changes were adopted to previous approved applications. It actually explains the interaction between total income estimates during the first year and the reasons for the decline in income.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u66	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I asked about the effects on college. Maybe they're negligible, but I'm asking for the highest. The minister is to come in on it if there is a time in the next answer or the answer to my questions. This bill goes to what? Another bill involved in changing the same law, on scientific research in the field of health. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, not because I think it's the highest. Ministers affect the way a Senate committee works, but because of her experience as a senator, whether it is not likely and normal when changes are made in the same bill of work together. It should not be that one should go above the other, but the other should work together as adjustments in the same laws. Two prime messages are included in the Committee, one on reimbursement and legislation on the payment of the Scientific Committee and one on how to handle the results of scientific research and data research. Tells you the highest. The minister doesn't, and I refer to her plagion experience, to be agreed together?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u67	A respectable president. Regarding the effects at the university, the colleges were not concerned about this matter at any other time than what was stated in the report I was explaining earlier, i.e. that it would have to be guaranteed by the scientific research of students. It is seen in the bill as it is suggested, but scholars usually have sponsors and backs, which are often the financial basis for such research. In turn, it is assumed that this is actually the amount to which the scientific community should not abandon scientific research. There are tens of thousands. The Regulation has not yet gone into consultation, it will do so, but it is only intended for now. About a question why. In itself, I have no particular opinion of how the committee works exceptionally. However, I can't see, although it is a change of the same legislation, i.e. On the one hand, the matter recommended, and on the other hand, the matter of Congress. One circuit overseer is 1st, that the matter is related in a material way. It may kill the coverage of the distribution to cover it at once and with the same guests, etc. where material things are not related. But I trust each other. The welfare committee to organize their work properly, as well as other tasks, and to wish her good results in doing so.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u68	A respectable president. Public interests, indeed. There's a very good reason for us to have a scientific committee, or a ◯internal review set, as usual elsewhere. However, research on the scientific committee is far beyond the reasons why the Scientific Committee was created. Let us bear in mind that this is not only a particularly extensive study but all studies in this field, including small studies, including studies that have not been given strength but may be strengthened if the approval of the Scientific Committee is available, which do not have the strength to pay for the application to the Scientific Committee. There is a motivation for this not to alter the procedure, if an investigator finds that it might be better to make the study somehow different, he will have to pay for it. It's not an incentive to do a good test. It is interesting to see that the bill expects the actual cost of the service to be met, and that is expected to be 9◯11 million. K. reimbursement of the event, which then falls to 3 to 566 billion. K. What is needed to meet the real cost of the ministry? I don't know which one. A lot of other things, I'm going to get at least one more thing. What are studies in students? That's a definition that is missing here, because most of the studies that are practiced at the university have very high value at work. How interesting it would be to learn that the precise study of students is different from that done at the university!
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u69	A respectable president. First, if I start at the wrong end, so to speak, it's a bad light. A senator is concerned that student studies are not properly defined here. As told by the National Institute of Health, Iceland's University on the bill, it says, by permission of Presidents: ▪ The National Institute of Health for the University of Iceland wants to suggest that reimbursement on the basis of new licenses has to be no or highly advanced for scientific studies (base students and graduates). I believe that if this definition works for the University of Iceland and the National Sciences, it should be done by the General. But if you do. The welfare committee believes that it needs to do better in that definition, so I trust her to do so. Hv. A senator asks what is needed, which is the number needed to provide the impact on the management of the committee. It is to say that these are, of course, the guidelines, but the basis is that this is according to the time charge, the actual work that the committee needs to do. If it has to do with a lot of work related to the changes in research, it will cost and it will be collected. Hv. A senator is concerned that there will be some research between a ship and a dock. In conclusion to the Regulation that will be followed by the consultation exercise, the completion of the Allegorical Council, we expect three categories and the number that will be the cheapest is the one with the position to which there is no sponsorship. According to the Scientific Committee itself, these are very few studies, possibly just one per year.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u70	A respectable president. The reason I ask about the fee is that the report tells me that the aim of the currency is twofold, one for supporting the management of the Committee - that does not mean paying the basic costs, however, as I understand it - and collect a modest amount of payment for applying applications. However, the currency aims to improve the investigators' practice and candidates' practice so that there are early protocols. I see a measure of motivation in this, but I don't see that harmony with paying real cost for the ministry if the goal is to strengthen the business or in some other way. They complain that even though projects have increased, money has not been applied. I believe that's exactly the result of what I pointed to before, i.e. that very much of this project does not really fit the reasons why the Scientific Committee was born at the same time. In those cases, I feel that there should be a very simple elimination form, which is just said: the conditions that make it possible for a scientific committee not to apply to the study I'm working on. There are many examples, such as working with prisoners, etc., examples we have in history, and then becoming more and more and more examples of the work that are being done by the Scientific Committee. But while the investigator does not perform true research, which is under the exact reasons why the Scientific Committee exists, it should be possible to say, "I'm not in these tests. " Done. It would spend a huge amount of work that I believe is unnecessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u71	A respectable president. First, it is that the National Institute of Science, the Scientific Committee, really determines what constitutes a scientific examination of the field each time, so I think I'm concerned. A senator would be unfounded unless my understanding is not correct and he assumes that there is some kind of check list that the person can fill out in early stages. I think that's what we're talking about. The welfare committee has to deal with these opinions, as do others. I don't quite realize that this is or is going to be a problem. On the other hand, that is a word. A senator in charge of the fee. That may be when we are determined to ask, "What is it? " A senator believes that the price should be higher because it is being paid very cautiously. Although it is intended to be at the expense and management of the committee, it is, of course, that the government fund bridges the gap, and we do not believe that the Scientific Committee should collect special funds, but the committee should collect a modest fee to cover the main costs of the business. However, it is still under consideration, both in the manner of consultation, in which the plan for publication of Regulation will be published, as well as in discussion. the welfare committee on this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u72	A respectable president. These were interesting answers that occurred with the health minister earlier. It is interesting to learn that the price is intended to bridge the gap between the actual cost of living under the Scientific Committee and the legal committee. In other words, the cost of research is being shifted to the scientific committee. Actually, it means the contractions of research. That really doesn't mean anything else. Those investigators who do research usually do so on specific occasions, and the money they cannot use for the studies reduces the size of the study. If they have to take part of their research budget to do the work of the Scientific Committee, it will simply reduce the size and potential quality of the research. Here, the figures on a planned currency are presented and also said to set a currency later, but it has apparently been determined in some way without being said that otherwise these numbers could not have been calculated. I make a note of this discrepancy, the inconsistencies of the State's strengthening of scientific research, but at the same time supplying it with money to the Scientific Committee. I know it's a great job, but at the same time, it's my job, and considering the stories I've heard, a more extensive job than it had to be done. There I refer to history, for the reason that scientific committees developed in the scientific community. There are very serious cases that definitely indicate the need for a scientific committee, but there are also a number of studies that are not involved in that, the matter. At the school where I was studying, I had to submit an application to the Scientific Committee. It wasn't in the medical field, but the school decided to hold it in every aspect of the school. It was a firm inner quality management of the school, and it was all good and blessed. But the question list I received was extremely health - oriented, even though my loans were bound to be almost never involved in it. If I used the vocabulary I knew from my studies, from my field of expertise, the questionlist would mean everything else when I read it over but if I had come from medical science. But this is an exaggerated example, and it is here only a medical science committee. However, there are a number of studies within the medical field that should not be found in the scientific community. I think we've made a certain mistake in the law on the Scientific Committee's law when it comes to that. Her subject was from the beginning all too much. That's why I suggest a moderate transition. Most research does not have to consider whether it deals with the delicate issues established by scientific committees for monitoring. It should be possible to have a certain exception to make a statement that the studies are not involved in that subject. Other than that, I believe that not only answers but also answers came true. However, I like to draw back to the fact that I feel that this is only a real cost for the ministry, which it does not, since it is just the bridge between them. This enables the government to reduce the bone to the Scientific Committee and to increase the payoff. According to the words, that's the way it is. It appears that the report is not exactly the goal of paying for the basic costs but that it should strengthen the committee. I think there's a bit of discrepancy in there that could go over and explain.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u73	A respectable president. Some points at the end of this discussion here. I'd like to say, first of all, because I think I didn't mention it before, that when we talk about strengthening the work of the Committee, we're talking about the committee being able to perform tasks that she hasn't had time to do so. I would also like to mention in general, since we may not have been very busy in this discussion about the general importance of health science research, especially since there is an ever - increasing challenge to health care services at all levels, and, fortunately, there is an ever clearer requirement for criticism methods to be proposed. I'd also like to mention, because I felt like a dog. A senator would not like me to have mentioned here regulations, as if I were relating something that had just been done. But, hey. A senator shakes his head, so I hope that I have simply been repetitizing his words. But I think it's in the light of the right thing to figure out exactly how this is going to be. At the same time as we've sent this bill to the Scientific Committee for review, we'll also send the regulations to the Commission and request a reasoned proposal to pay for certain three categories. The Scientific Committee then suggests the scope of the work that is expected to be carried out on the basis of a number from the past few years. That's why, a respectable president, this has become quite a shape. However, in view of what order to do things, we need to wait until the Council to deliver the bill and make it a law, if the Council chooses to do so. There is not much question about the implementation of the Commission in a judicial hearing that has not improved. I know that me and what. A senator is particularly interested in the introduction of procedures and the order of action, and I expect to meet understanding in that approach to that subject. Then, regarding comments, why not? A member of the head of a scientific committee at the outset and how wide or narrow it is to begin with and then what task it is about: It is part of the past, and it may not be exactly about the matter of Congress that is under consideration but is worthy of all interest. My conclusion is that science in health field will take more of our time both in research and in science, as well as in health policy. We have looked to it, and in increasing numbers, that progress in technology and science becomes even faster than moral discussions have been achieved. Hence, we must try also to have moral opinions on a program at the General Assembly, as well as in the scientific community.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u74	A respectable president. I would recommend a bill to correct a law on unemployment insurance laws, pay-of-work guarantees, birth and parent's license, the law on paying to parents of long-term or severely disabled children, and the law on the rights of living donors for temporary financial support. These are comparable changes in all the laws mentioned above and are subject to the contribution of the labour market-related living systems of the pension fund. It should be noted that the above implementation systems are all designed to assist workers in a labour market for forwarding, they must temporarily disappear from a labour market because of certain circumstances. In 2016 the Allied Union of Iceland and the Organization for Employment made an agreement on the increase in the workforce of a pension fund. The meeting meant that the protest of professional pension workers would increase by 3.5% in three stages, i.e. from 8% to 11.5%. At the same time, the agreement was expected to be fully valid on July 1 of this year. and it's been going along. The legislation on the labour market admixture system assumes that a pension fund should be paid a standard donation made from an appropriate extension system equal to the proportion of pay paid to individuals who use it properly within the relevant system. Thus it has been important that although workers in a labour market need to be temporarily removed and that their rights to pay from unemployment insurance, stocks or state funds, or payable funds to the relevant alimony system, they pay a contribution in a pension fund to 4% of the fees that the individual is made to pay. On the other hand, when it comes to payment from a remuneration fund, it has been important that the funds due to the demands of pension pay should cover the contribution given to employees involved in the payment of a pension fund, as well as some of the remuneration of remunerations that would have been paid to the needy. The objective of the bill is also. to reduce negative effects on the processing of pension rights in those who use their rights in the developed systems. The objective of the bill is also to ensure that the responsibilities of a responsible budget due to the demands of pension pay cover the contribution the employer would have made to pay in the pension fund according to the agreement, as well as to the proportion of pay paid persons that would have self-imbursed would not have resulted in the failure of the job owners. Is it therefore assumed that a barrier to a pension fund on the basis of a law on the responsibilities of pay will be held at 15.5% of the population strain, according to Article 3. the law on the insurance policy of pension rights and the operation of pension funds instead of 12% minimum paid under the same law as stated in the current terms of pay remuneration. A respectable president. I don't think I have to explain this case any further because it's pretty self-explanatory. I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The welfare committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u75	Mr. President. It is more than a dropping house, and with irons it is more than a covert from the wind and the wind. Not a luxury either, but a well - prepared person is to be offered. Furthermore, living under human rights is not a traditional market. A secure home is a place that makes individuals and families secure, and we call it a home. Today, I recommend an action strategy on eight housing teams designed to handle the household problem systematically. Transporter is signed, along with all other members of the United States. This proposal suggests that the government will be assigned to set up a clear operation plan with specific and time - appointed measures that will ensure the security of people in Iceland. Despite long - term good health, housing issues and thousands of families are still in trouble. People are not supposed to have to worry about homelessness in this country. It is economically unacceptable to wait for general action, apart from the coldness of it. The market has not been able to solve the housing problem or the government. Over the past few years, government operations on housing have been unsolvable and obviously have not yielded enough good results. Instead of working hard to meet lasting solutions, governments have rather turned down fires. It's hard times, big talk is ahead of us. They will turn back, but the common theme of the labor movement and of the industry is that governments must provide safe and more efficient housing for people. The need for action, such as the people we volunteer for today, is disintegration, with a high risk of being eaten up in a housing market. Of course, there the U.S. dollar plays its part. The situation is that young and wealthy people cannot enter the housing market while there is a great shortage of rented apartments and rent prices - far too high in the North countries. There is also little to offer community housing for all the less material things. In addition, the lowest income group, which is therefore very difficult to support in housing markets, but not sufficiently low to be able to share this very low - dose social housing, has been completely in place since the construction of the farm system. Also, there is not enough supply to rent houses or suitable apartments for individuals and families with average or even relatively high income. Despite the high cost of housing in most families and housing, the nation's highest priority is getting too little attention to the Council. Despite their huge welfare issues, they do not have a place in their well - being. We must simply take action, Mr. President. It is not enough to indicate that this is the case, that the work force is being built a little more, and that the welfare department has been appointed. People have simply waited too long. People with a lower income have the greatest difficulty in getting into a housing market and, as a result, have a considerably greater insecurity of rent rent. Another group that has been left entirely behind is young people. Its power has not increased comparable to that of older generations as housing prices have increased by 43% above the general price level. There is a considerably greater increase in housing prices than in other countries in the North. The tenants have serious consequences, but studies have shown that tenants are more likely to have financial problems, and children are more likely to feel want and peripheral. Today, some 50,000 people live in a trespassing and expensive tenants. That's 30,000 homes. Thus, the major victims of housing are the poorest part of the country that does not find suitable housing for long - term rent, and young people who do not get their first apartments. Other groups, in turn, profit from the plight of those who come up with a roof over their heads. These tenants and tenants make billions of dollars a year, but that profit comes directly from tenants' pockets. Governments and rural areas must ensure that the structure of tenants is targeted by financial support and various measures. It is necessary to support the development of a new social structure system that meets those who are unable to handle market management and cannot buy or rent on a general market. A lease - room supply is also very lacking. It must build more and more practical to hold back the price. The government has to step in and ensure more and larger building initiatives for the production of good renters. In the long run, the housing system should be predictable and safe, ensuring the borrowers'variety of loans at an advantage. A wide variety of safe rent markets will be established by policy-making and public appearance, but also by a wide variety of apartments to purchase on the market. This is simply a co-work project between the market and the public. The key to working out housing solutions in close cooperation with the labor movement, the job life, and the rural communities in the country is to work with them. Thus, the Conspiracy puts forth a structured synonym in eight teams designed to improve the housing problem systematically. Group members believe that the proposal is a necessary step toward a more efficient housing market, a human rent market, and more social stability. Of course, we realize that this suggestion will not solve all the problems we are in and not immediately. This, however, is the first step to take on these items in a real and lasting way. Although that is not part of the eight suggestions, you must mention the elephant in the room, the currency. Of course, the biggest obstacle is not to be avoided, but there are high rates and financial costs of Icelandic currency. The fact that production in Iceland is much lower than in the North countries at the same time as we are living in a much higher interest level and the more capital costs are, of course, all but more difficulties in building a sustainable housing market than would have to be. The first point of the proposal is to start loans into the Norwegian role model. Young people are finding it increasingly difficult to get into a house market, but the problems are mainly due to lack of their own money. Salivable prices are too high, and housing prices keep rising beyond costs. The only last few years of government work that is involved in buying first estate is the use of tax - free tax on the market. These measures, however, are primarily useful to those with a higher income. However, starting loans help those who are taking their first steps in a real estate market and who are not borrowing elsewhere, as well as to ensure housing security for vulnerable groups. They come best to poor families, those with low but secure income but cannot borrow enough from traditional banks. In addition, families are available that find it difficult to cover expenses because of budgetary expenses in the form of funding. This is to help families remain secure and regular. The loans have proved to be good in Norway, where there were conditions for maximum prices to match prices and to make sure that housing was no more expensive than to allow borrowers to cope with long - term payments. Second, in cooperation with unions and rural communities, we once again contribute to a human tenet. Since the construction of the labor - farm system, modest individuals have been outside the park. There is some doubt that if the workers'farm system had been allowed to develop, instead of laying it down, there would now be about 20,000 more apartments in today's system. The group who attend will not be able to handle the market, but they are considered to be too rich in income for community housing. At last, funding has been guaranteed in the development of 2,300 apartments after years of struggle. But that's just not enough, Mr. President. This structure should be much greater and faster. There's gotta be a safer tenant in partners without a profit plan. Such communities, however, find it difficult to get established because of a financial problem, but they are still a very important part of the neighboring society's housing system. We need to head there. Clearly, congregations need to be built up without an apartment. It's a long-term job, not a challenge. The government has to cooperate with rural society, the partner of the labour market, and the pension fund to deal with the lack of rented apartments and to ensure a sufficient supply. The key is to consider what kind of apartments are missing in the market, as well as how many are needed, since now is primarily a need for smaller and more efficient apartments for the next few years, including due to changes in family patterns. The arrival of the State is simply needed to lay the foundation for a stable tenet and to ensure that large numbers of apartments in the coming years will be practical for society and will be used in the fight against poverty and inequities. Therefore, it is suggested that during the next few years a building attack at least 5,000 cabib sprays working with non-profit partners. Such efforts may need to be temporary in individual areas but permanent in others. It may allow different laws to flow from one area to another. Third, social housing needs to be leveled with the responsibility of a local community. As a result of social housing, rural society is very divided in the capital area. Reykjavík has the largest share of such assets, or up to eight times more than the local community. The same is true of Akureyri, a town far better off than other rural areas in the country. I believe the normal share of social housing could depend on 5% of the total number of apartments. Clearly, many rural communities do not meet that ratio, so smaller families often have to look for solutions. That's where we have to pay the bill to take care of the NTSB. Let us not forget that rural society has very limited potential for earning money. By making it possible for individual communities to get out of all services that should be self - determination and natural, and to put it on other people's shoulders, the competitiveness of a local community is being overcome. Of course, the unnamed bad news is that it is indirectly pushing people out of rural areas and into neighboring communities. Fourth, housing and growth improvements have to be better adhered to the prices. Although housing and growth improvements alone do not solve the housing problem, housing benefits and other provisions must be maintained in the case of pay development to prevent lower income groups from being reduced by the expected inequities. Fifth, it is extremely important to reduce local construction costs, increase production, e.g. by making it easier for modules and sorting functions. It is suggested that the building order be greatly simplified. With only slight changes in the construction principle, the requirements can be simplified and better adapted to regulations in other countries. In spite of the authority's will, well - known foreign methods stop because of the rule here. Why do we always come up with the bike when it is possible to use standard solutions? Other countries have shown that modern construction methods can be used for a long time without compromising the quality of buildings. These changes should take into account the increasing production of the construction industry in Iceland, which would also cover opportunities for building units and structure at a more economic level. Finally, the construction and planning administrations must also be made much more efficient than is currently and harmonised between different countries. sixth, we suggest making incentives for long - term rent instead of temporary rents. To increase the supply of apartments for long-term renters, we want those who rent out to their real estate and have only an extra tax - free apartment. It is then subject to conditions referred to in the synonym. In the eighth place, we suggest that the law on housing repairs be adjusted with the goal that young people and poor ones who share housing can gain the right to repair housing. Hv. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir has provided a special bill on this subject that I encourage members of Congress to study. With the necessary improvements I have mentioned here, we take decisive steps toward the future healthy housing and rented markets, the steps needed to fight the poverty of the country, but of course, to ensure, of course, the human rights that are safe to all the people. So I challenge it to him. Senators take advantage of these suggestions so that we can meet people who cannot enjoy the fruits of the economy and those who have been left behind. In fact, we owe renters and young people who can't pay to buy their first apartment much better resources. There is no group of political issues here. Safe housing is as self - righteous as food, clothing, education, and health care. There must be a way to adapt these suggestions to want all classes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u76	Mr. President. I'm happy to meet a challenge. paritaprevir On this matter, Logi Einarsson, who is well versed in this resolution, declares my support to her and thanks him for his story on this matter. I want to come up here to ask him a couple of questions and just switch them between the answers to make this comfortable. First, I would like to ask about the 1st team of this synonym, the start-up loan to the Norwegian role model, as it were. The senator spoke in his talk. I simply wanted to seek further information, first of all, about how much difference there is between interest in general loans and loans in this Norwegian model, about that. Then I'd like to ask you what. A senator sees that it can be bought up only by a certain amount of money with such loans and what that amount should be, just about, once again, and how to apply it to Icelandic reality. So the question is, "See what." A senator imagined that such starting loans could be used to buy a two - room apartment in a British hole or just a larger apartment in the West Side? How would this apply to the market we see today? I'll start with that, Norwegian starters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u77	Mr. President. These loans are primarily social events for those who do not have rich parents or wealthy relatives or who do not have high incomes that they can put away and who have difficulty earning money. They can be up to 100% in Norway. In terms of growth, there is something to be talked about here specifically because the growth in Norway is 1.8% or something like that, while the unconvinced interest here is 6, 7, I don't know. Of course, there is something that needs to be discussed. To receive these loans, you also need to go through a different kind of payment, not as burdensome as the one in this system. Actually, there are others who might be able to do this. This is mainly the idea that housing would be not too large and not too expensive, and it is sure that people will be able to pay back. In this system in Norway, and we have thought about it here too, there are also ways of borrowing for individuals who may be involved in an accident, who get into a wheelchair, grow old, and may have to live longer at home, allowing such loans to be applied and adjusted to adapt to their needs. Also to cover spaces for people who have had very difficult situations, e.g. after the crash. I've got enough left, I just saw something blinking over here. But let's just take the next question.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u78	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. The second question is all technical material, to the 5th Parliamentary formula for the simple building principle. It suggests that the construction principle in Iceland will be adjusted to match the rest of the North countries with the easier it will be to build units there and move to Iceland. I just think it's the best part. However, I would like to ask what these changes are and if they will be of any value to you - I doubt that, but I ask just in case - that access will be impaired, i.e. has an impact on bioavailability in buildings in Iceland. I'd like to hear some answers. That's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u79	Mr. President. I appreciate the question. You see, there's been quite a few discussions about the simple building order here at the council, and so much of that discussion has just been done on how to cut out all the extra items, make things smaller and splattered, so I use ugliness. It's certainly all right to make it possible for humans to build small apartments, but here we are not talking about leaving this absolute design, where access to everyone is assumed. That is also the case in the North countries, but we should be able to adapt to that. I'm here talking about factors that haven't been discussed, but they're all skyburst, such as. that there is another requirement for altitude in Iceland than in Sweden. What does that mean? It simply means that if a person is going to build a 30940 m 2 apartment apartment apartments in Iceland and he is going to buy himself into the production of a company that produces according to other circumstances, they have to be developed by Iceland. They'll always make them 15, 20, 30% more expensive, so it's out of control. We support so much of the North countries that we should really be able to trust that the demands there are something we can accept. Moreover, much larger and more radical changes in the building order can be made. Here in Iceland, she's a formula. It's, for example. The details of how the packaging should be, how large, how small, how wide and all of it, while the Norwegian Regulation is the focus drive, the quality, the lighting, the beauty and the like. Then, of course, the designers and contractors are convincing the construction authorities that the requirements are being met. A much more sensible approach.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u80	Mr. President. It's fine to have this suggestion under consideration, and I appreciate it. On the other hand, I believe it is right and duty to have a word for what to say. 1st. "What. paritaprevir Loga, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, I'm not quite sure that I will sign all the tasks that are deemed necessary by tourists. I'd like to know why the Group members of the United States don't take one of those jobs and do it themselves. I declare that I would make an effort to pay that way, along with a bang. paritaprevir It's a whole Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter, via a Economic and Business Committee, number six, and it's relatively simple. If it's any meaning of being assigned a minister to this mission, it's much easier for them to do it themselves. I don't understand why more numbers had to be brought in or more jobs. So I ask, why doesn't the Group of Congress take over and move this simple bill? The income tax from rent-institution is 50%, i.e. Fifty-five percent of the rent is taxed by 22%. This is the first question. Don't you think there's one particular job involved? Here we will discuss some of the duties of rural society regarding social housing. What, though, about the duties of a community to ensure adequate construction projects? It is not a duty to be included in the project, because if your communities fail to perform their basic obligation to ensure adequate environmental benefits, it does not matter what will be done in those tasks. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u81	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason for. He mentions the 6th past, and in itself there is no point in creating a special matter about it, and in fact, we have a special language about some things there. However, housing matters are not different in order to produce the nation's health or education in that there is considerable benefit from the fact that, regardless of groups, the whole body of the council deals with it, discuss it in a complete way and achieves an agreement for years and decades. It's not a great job. These are not tasks designed to solve things one, two, and three. That's not possible. We have a huge business path that is very successful. I worked in it for 25 years and went through four trials in the construction industry because of either being cut off or given in. We are naturally able to achieve a wide variety of peace in the community on any side of the main thought of housing and housing. As for the duties of property, I suppose there is a game to try to strike the capital, which has actually done much better in housing than all the other rural communities around. It's no use. It's like having a lot of empty weights if nothing is done. [[Take it up: Nonsense.]] It's been built in Reykjavík. This is the largest building period in the history of the city, even though the population is calculated into it. This is a bigger period of structure than when Breinholt was attacked, so let's get this straight. Any attempt to bring the city of Reykjavík down badly in these discussions is a failure.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u82	Mr. President. I didn't say a word about the city of Reykjavík. For some reason, I understand why. A senator and 1st. which is a special attack on Reykjavíkurburg and the greater part of it when I ask whether or not to define the duties of a member of the country to ensure that enough land supply is available. That must be true of himself. But let it lie in between things. I ask: Is it so that we are developing a wise policy here in apartments, in housing? I agree with what. Einarsson The need for security is one of the basic needs of all of us. Of course, we should do all we can to ensure that our basic needs are met in the same way as our other basic needs. But we will also be listening to the people ourselves and trying to meet their desires. In a new survey of camp loan funds that was introduced last week, it turns out that only 8% of rent - rent people are there because they choose it. Most people don't want rent. They want to live in their own homes. Then I ask: Is it not right for us to gather together in the Hall of Congress and work to make the people's dreams and desires come true, that they are the main project? If we do so, we will also resolve the largest part of the rent - rent market problem because rent demand will be reduced, with normal rent prices and security becoming better, safer, and society all will have to flourish. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u83	Mr. President. The reason why I mentioned Reykjavík is that I can understand, of course, earlier than the teeth and can read from line to line, and also because I am a special amateur for both sides. A senator who reads his article in the morning newspaper. So I claimed to understand from the context that he could be discussing the capital. That's why. Of course, it's all right to listen to people, and I know that a new survey made by the camp loans shows that 92% of rent - rent people is not comfortable, but you can also ask ten people who are walking around on a brand-new rubber boots in wet weather and others who are in holes and the answers will be happy with them and the rest aren't. For example, when such tests are made, consider how tenants'attitude toward rent markets are found in Germany, Sweden, Denmark, and Norway. Then it turns out it's a general pleasure, it's a good system. Because I'm assuming that we agree that people think the same way at Redfarves and Rwanda and have the same needs, I assume that good would be... - No, if the rent was good, it would be more fun. [[But you want to...]] I spoke of it exactly, and have always done, that equal between having the ability to live in a secure lease and having the means to buy an apartment. I spoke of the public duty, but the private enterprise should also be built. Young people today are very different from when you and I were young and dreamt of living in a suburbs in a big house with a garage. [[Not long ago.]] Young people are more mobile today, they don't want to get stuck. Let's just do both, okay? paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, and let's do it together.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u84	President. It is a joy to share in this arrangement of housing. It is a matter of human rights, as was mentioned above. But they are also mental health and child - protection issues. The house - to - house system in Iceland is off limits, so there may be a number of more complex reasons. I think this council proposal is a good step in fixing it. Safety is one of the basic steps in the affidavitary Maslowur. We all need housing, and the public has certain responsibilities when it is due. In particular, I wanted to say that this is the time for duties to be placed on rural areas when it comes to social housing with the objective of equalizing the burden of rural society. This is extremely important. I'm here with a year old number. Some 2,650 social apartments were in Reykjavík a year ago, and all of us know that they are growing rapidly these days. It's a social apartment. There are unnumbered apartments, such as homerooms and other apartments, who are not in a business - driving system. They were in Kópavogur a year ago, 436 C.E., and I haven't heard them say they were new. In other words, the situation is the second best. In Hafnarfjörður, 245 Then we come to the richest societies here in the capital area. In the town of Garða, they were 35, in Mosfellsville, 30, at Seltjanarnesi 16. It's a disgrace. They have to do something about it and simply decide that there is a certain percentage of apartments in each rural society to be run on social grounds. I know, for example. ... thatSeltiannas doesn't own a construction site, so it's hard to meet there. But these rural communities just have to pay for social housing elsewhere in some kind of equation fund. We all need a home. Housekeeping is simply a basic requirement. It is all too important to leave it alone. Officials have obligations in these matters. It was only said that we wanted to be a special people. That is because of the way the Icelandic tenet is. He's horrible. It is a source of root in families, insecurity, and anxiety, apart from the fact that shelter prices are everywhere, way too high. It just needs to be bonded. It's not like this in other countries. Switzerland, e.g. more people just want to be in a rented market, they think it's a ridiculous idea to go buy an apartment in some city and have to have a garden and a garage and something like that. People may prefer to buy some tiny mountain cabins, where you can have it nice and relaxed rather than own and tie up your money on that big investment. But in Iceland this has been necessary. I don't think that's the way it is for younger generations. Now I have four young people in my home. They have to live somewhere. In the years that follow, they will someday move somewhere else, and they will not be able to live forever in their parents'homes. But I don't think they're interested in having and running housing. They want to live somewhere, and they want to be able to move abroad and come back, and all that is possible. These young people think differently than my generation and old generations did. We really need to rethink these matters in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u85	A respectable president. I always rejoice when we have the opportunity to discuss housing here in this room. I think it's very important that it's done. In fact, I think we end up all too often in it, when it's being discussed with this important group here that the discussion will simply be way too shallow. When it comes to this market, there is always one factor that is thought to matter all the time, but I disagree completely. You see, I think there are many different incidents that have created the situations that exist today. But then I'd also like to mention that this market has rarely been balanced in this country. If you talk about the man - made industry or the construction industry, it is industrialized that has, over the years, taken enormous fluctuations. I think what we here in this room should focus primarily on is trying to get some balance on this market. As I can agree that it is a welfare matter, even a mental health or child care matter, that everyone has a roof over his head - and we can all agree on that - we are primarily talking about one of the largest markets in the country. It's the mechanic sector. And the market as such does not compromise social views unless there is a small amount of them. That's why I think it's important for us to discuss all its aspects. I'm not going to stand here and pretend I have all the answers on my hands - at the same time I don't think the answers are on the hands of all of us in this fine clause. Although there may be many interesting points here for special consideration, I don't think it's simply so simple that the problems that exist with the procedures outlined here can be solved. The reason the price is so high on this market is simply that the offer is not enough. However, the reason why offering is not enough is not one thing. Yes, I'm sure every member of the community could have been better able to make things better. Yet, I'd like to remind you, knowledgeable to the Mosfells community, that through the collapse, entire neighborhoods were ready to act if someone had been ready to go to camp. It simply wasn't. Following a collapse, both machines, man, and money left the country, and they were not there for that structure, so there are various reasons. There is undoubtedly something you can do to make it easier for young people to buy their first apartment. Yet, that has been a significant step. I think it's also important that at the same time that we've talked about being a real tenant, we have to realize that most people still want an apartment. But I agree that there is also a decision to convert to democracy, and there are others who want to get into a safe house. Not everything needs to be social. It may also be on market grounds. I also want to communicate here - because it was mentioned in a sermon. A senator who spoke before me and good if not also in the speech of the prime minister of this synonym - that in the case of local societies and the importance of being subject to their responsibility, to provide social housing in such cases, it is simply not so, as at times the discussion is held, that Reykjavíkurburg is the only community to care for those things. This was referred to earlier statistics that I think are numbers about the number of apartments that are owned by the relevant rural communities and are still renting into their social system. I know there's 81 apartment in Mosfellstown that's in social rent, even though it's 31 as the country society itself. It is so important that we watch that our rural society has taken different paths. Reykjavíkurburg has taken a way to own a company called Social Services and to purchase a number of apartments and continue renting them. Other rural groups have cooperated with other parties, such as the Micro-Community Act or Their Company, Bust, or just renting stores on the market and then reassigning into their social systems. I think that rural society should be self-conceived as long as they meet the needs of society. I also wanted to discuss here only this aspect that often comes up with a discussion about the offer, that the offer is out of harmony with the demand. Now, not only am I saying lack of supply, but when we discuss that this is merely an offer on larger apartments or more expensive than demand is inexpensive. I have no doubt that there are many factors. I am surprised, though, that when we discuss such an enormously important market and industry such as the human act, we are all relying solely on - and I'm talking about both banks and camp loans and other market parties - on numbers coming from the industrial Association. Now I'm not going to talk down the firms of industry, but the numbers they have are just raise them by driving through the construction sites and talking to construction contractors about what's on their rhythms. It's amazing in 2018 that we don't have any safer numbers than this. Because these data all exist in the system. An organization has established what has been planned for the rural communities, how large they are. They're in every company they're in every building permit they've been granted. These data should be easily drawn out and said: This is exactly what is available, as it were. In fact, an organization was given this assignment in a national organization - now I do not realize if it was a law, an upcoming convolutation proposal for a national organization. An organization was assigned to keep all the planning and provide this information into the market. I know that the rural areas in the capital area depend heavily on the work of the regional organization in which they were trying to take only the high media control that had been in the older regional organization and that gives them greater authority to the market. Of course, that information is available on the market. Sadly, the organization has not yet set priorities in putting this project first. You see, I have considerable faith in the market, and I expect that if this information is available in a more accessible way, those who work out there in the market, whether the players are borrowing or operating parties, be sure what the need is, where the demand is, and where the pipe is. I'm also going to say here that, as I'm sure it is true - and we know it, we all see that there's a lack of an apartment house, especially here in the capital area and also in many parts of the country - I also allow me to doubt the figures that have been shown in the camp account of the market need. At least they are much higher than the rural population here in the capital area have estimated in their regional structure what needs to be built each year. We're working out of a crisis when nothing was built for a few years. Of course, it takes some time to work at it. Of course, I would have, like everyone in this room, wanted to see it happen a lot faster. But I do believe we're getting closer to it, and it's a lot to the pipeline that it's dangerous to speak in such a way that these rural communities should break up a new country and rebuild whole neighborhoods. Of course, there's always a bit of relaxation. It will always take some time for these apartments to come into the market that is being carried out right now. I just want to remember this discussion, too, that it's not long since our rural society was in the neck for planning too much ahead. There was a report that made the promise of growth, and the rural communities were blamed for competition on land. I may point out that there are a number of smells in this discussion. I often think it's too shallow here with us. Still, I'm glad to have an opportunity to discuss the premises, because I think it's important, and there's a lot of good in this Senate arrangement that I think we should take a closer look at. I have a particular interest in studying the building order and working with the northern countries. This could promote further practicality at this market. I also think it's necessary to add more research and innovation to the real estate and housing market, and to think that the state has made a huge mistake by having pulled completely out of it with the Research Institute of the construction industry. There is no need for extra funding into a competitive fund or greater interest in the competitive funds to show interest in this important market. That's when my time's up. I don't have much more to say about it right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u86	Mr. President. Thank you very much. I don't disagree. A senator all over the place. You see, I don't think the rural population has to break a new country to build. I think that's exactly what they should build. This would provide valuable environmental support for an excellent phenomenon that is the city line that I know we are going to have. A senator supports both. Right away. A senator speaks of a number of apartments, rural numbers, and the number of apartment loans, I think that neither party has met at the right number. Yet, rural society often forgets to consider the evolution process. In Iceland more people live in each apartment than anywhere else, both setbacks caused young people to live in their parents'homes, and so the trend has been slower. In the North, it depends on two people every apartment while we're in two or three. It's not just about population growth, it's about a new way of life. For the building order and planning and disorganization, it is often a built - in force to build too large a structure. You get property and city on top of the maximum building level, and there are also a set number of apartments so that the contractor is tempted to fill in the square-meter number to get the most out of it. Instead, it should encourage people to build as much as possible without compromising the quality and giving the market more freedom to care for these things. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, because we know that the production here may be 70% relevant to what it is in Norway, whether it is considered high interest and high financial cost, taking into account the low production rate in Iceland, may be a major reason why construction costs are too high here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u87	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists, and especially for giving me the opportunity to talk about structure. I couldn't get in on her in my speech. I think there are many positive factors. But how vital it is that property is available to build both densely and on a new land! There is an increase in the cost of building in urban areas. We see this very clearly in the capital city, and of course it is accepted. In fact, it is important that during recent years, I believe that there is also an invitation to enter the wilderness, inside Hafnarfnarfjördur, in Mosfellstown, and in the town of Gardens, as well as in what we built. When it comes to the prophecy, it may well be that neither party is perfectly right in that respect. But I think the figures that have come from an apartment loan fund are not the figures of demand in their nature. There are certain demographics there. I don't think any crew on the menu would be willing to come in to the market and buy or rent. In that case, the evidence could be reasoned, at least as the situation is today. If she changed with the loss of real estate prices, would that change anything? I'm sure, but we're still looking at a certain demographic variable. Hv. A senator made it clear that we are still relatively numerous in a family, that there are others living in each apartment. It is also because, fortunately, Icelandic women have more children than women in neighboring lands, whom I believe is really important to us. I'm sure they'll have to look to that. But then we'll also watch that today there are a number of apartments in the Airbnb system. Hotels and bedbugs have been severely lacking, and this need is no doubt being met with the structurally built hotels. It may also be considered very likely that the apartments will move back to the general rent or out of the Airbnb system. I've got to get some growth and money to pay for it later.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u88	Mr. President. Yes, I now use my opportunity to discuss the claim that it is more expensive to build. It's a cliché that hears all too often. There's something that depends on the way you charge costs. Here in Iceland, the cost scale we're working on, e.g. building so that we increase the cost of property, design, and construction, and then we stop, while other countries such as Japan and other nations account for the cost of paying land, it's design, it's a building, it's a business for 50 years and it's subversive. It's the personal cost. And exactly the same is true when we live on the other side of a city that is dense or fragile a land that requires more transportation, larger institutions, more heat management, more snow currents that require more air to the environment, I claim that it is much more expensive to break a new land and make the settlement grow. In the 20th century, the private car is the greatest disaster of urban society, and no one should claim otherwise. We, however, have no alternative but to unwind it. We have this invention, and we can use it wisely, and we should make wise use of it. Some people have to have a car, and we should respect it. But we should also look to those who do not want to have a car because it is not only better for the environment but also better for those who want to travel by public transportation. It's also better for those who want to drive the private car because that way, the roads will be more likely to be a favor. On the contrary, it is an amazing waste of the suburbs. For good reason, every city in Europe and west of the ocean is driving exactly as far as water is concerned. A senator has been very supportive of building and building a city line.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u89	A respectable president. I appreciate that. So I'm starting with the question that I didn't answer earlier about the financial cost, the high rate of growth, and the insurance that has often been discussed as the main threat to the housing market, which accounts for high housing prices, let's also bear in mind that growth is in historically low, has been this time for a considerable amount of time. We have also managed to control the inflation, even though there are certain threats to society today that could exactly change it. That would be very damaging to all of us. When it comes to contaminating, I have much to say. A senator said here earlier. I'm in favor of condensation, but it can be done in different ways. That is exactly what has been determined here in the capital area, and the communities are approaching in very different ways. Some are in a position to offer the opportunity to enter unbroken land, and may you point to a land that is truly densely densely populated, as I might call the Blancaland in that topic. Of course, it is practical and wise to make good use of it. I think it's very important that we offer this variety. I know that the city of Reykjavík has been looking primarily at densely populated areas and is more built in apartments while other rural communities, such as the making of Mosfellstown, have also been able to offer up the special property, there are still people who want to live in that area. I'm not gonna say the car is a disaster. I think he's in many ways a very useful servant and I like my car too, but I totally agree that we have to promote public transportation. When we look at an organized country and how we will use it, it is important that we look at the long - term way in which we are going to run all our infrastructure, whether it is the host, the public transportation, or the fireman, or the garbage cults, or whatever it is. All these factors need to be looked to. And in many respects, much of the structure is very practical. However, not all homes that will be raised in the next few decades need to be a part of the structure built in Reykjavík.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u90	Madam President. I'm very happy for today's discussion, and I agree with it. paritaprevir That's the joke of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir who was in a pit right now. It is very important that we discuss large housing matters during the council. We in the United States have been leading in the discussion of this conference as well as at the previous council, in terms of a special discussion of housing matters brought on by the United Nations, but not so now with this proposal for Congress. It is not enough to talk about the conditions at the facility and how devastating conditions have been for the citizens and especially for those mentioned among the hands. Certain measures need to be taken. There you miss a bit of the government and the judges and get some serious suggestions, find out what the government is going to do about it, because we all agree to take major action. The synopsis offers eight suggestions, either ideas on the basics or other suggestions that can be applied. I'd like to pay attention to a bill that's still going to be recommended at the council, but that's in section 8. There is a bill that changes the law on housing benefits, which in everyday speech is called rent payments. Thus, for people to have the right to make repairs, they need to rent homes where they both have a kitchen and a private bathroom. With the bill that has been presented at the council but is yet to be recommended, referred to in the 8th Parliamentary decree, the change is presented that students and disabled persons may be able to obtain housing despite sharing a kitchen and bathroom with other people, and thus living in some sort of Communist or community. While renting larger homes together may be an advantage, it can still be possible to obtain housing. Living with other people, living with friends, living with other family members, renting apartments, or bigger homes can be not only practical but also helpful. That's why it's part of the synopsis proposal. We will follow through because we want to be useful at the council, with a bill that can be supported by the Senate. I hope that the matter will be arranged for the council in the next few days so that we can discuss it and bring it up to the committee. Just about a word or two. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son that very few people want to live in rented rooms. I agree with it. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einarsson says that public opinion of rent houses is particularly negative because of the unstable tenet in Iceland. The inability to rent long - term homes has a very negative impact on people's attitude toward rented homes. I agree with what's been going on today. I think if we could build a safer lease, both for young people and older people who might not want to have all their savings in some concrete, it would be the public attitude to live in a rented home rather than their own housing will be more positive. I think there's a lot of work to do to rebuild the lease that was completely decommissioned a few years ago. At the end, I have to point out that although interest and inflation have been in the best position, in recent years, there is a flash of air. We live under the circumstances of having a currency that is completely unpredictable. The quality of our lives in Iceland is greatly affected by the quality of our living as well as by the quality of our housing market. Once this begins, we are once again in a very difficult place for many people, both those who do not have a high income and those who have recently purchased property and perhaps have very little share in property. It can be very complicated. I think the government has to act quickly and try to come with us to a body of members of the United States for a certain measure of action, as specified in the Parliamentary Directive, in order to help the public in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u91	Madam President. I'm not going to have a traditional answer to my fellow soldiers, but instead of enrolling in another speech, I decided to use this minute to enter the discussion. You're right about what you're doing. paritaprevir The irony of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir is that much of the economy has been practical for us. We have had historically low prices and low prices in Iceland, but we still have housing growth in other parts of the North. They are 0.89% in Denmark, more than 1% in Sweden, I think, and 1.8% in Norway. In the United States, there have been an unconvinced growth rate of 67% and even under the excellent economic conditions, we have not ensured this difference. What I've been pointing out is that this is a poisonous cocktail, small production, and high financial cost. This is to be understood by independent members of Congress, who believe that they are the first in the economic and business affairs of an enterprise, although it may have appeared in different forms among the members of each body of Congress. Despite the marvelous economic conditions we now enjoy, there is a growing difference between us and the Norwegian countries. - That's all.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u92	Madam President. I recommend here for bill to correct the change in public penalties, for my good partner and party man, okay? paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, who is the most honored source of work behind this bill. He is the first transporter of Elíasdóttir Frifjörður Elisdólsson, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Ágústsson Ölfur Águgustsson, Birgir Þórarinsson, Bjög Leví Gunnarsson, Brynjólfsdóttir, Mccarthy, Guðmundur Ólafsson Sæmundsson, Rósa In Sævarsdóttir, Þorsteinn Mogensen, Hanna Gunnarsdóttir K., Þorsteinn Helgaóloftir, Ignadóðursson, Jón G., Lænar Ann Sarekónar, Víglundsson, Onarddddæðsson. I wanted to state this because I would like to demonstrate the wide scope of solidarity in this matter. We had all but one parties involved in bringing this case with us. In this regard, we suggest that we move our sexual illegal laws toward our modern times. We are responding to what we believe is our irresponsible obligation to protect the people of our people in our jurisdiction for sexual abuse, which the current legislation does not protect against. Young people and young women are, in particular, increasingly exposed to this kind of violence, and existing legislation is in no way in order to protect them from it. Those involved must be faced when the police receive that they cannot tell what was wrong with them when they are sexually abused. And in the few cases that are exposed to digital abuse, old and out - of - date laws that do not belong in modern society are used. It speaks of hurting feelings of shame. It speaks of defamatoryness. This does not mean that digital sexual abuse is a sexual abuse, and it does not hurt feelings of shame, resulting in a sense of sexual abuse, thus disrupting privacy and thus breaking the individual's right to complete immunity. As a result, we take up this important bill. It has been moved on our part for the second time. This bill has also been brought before by members of the Parliament from the bright future. Then another term was also used, such as currencies or vendettas. It is a term that no longer applies, not to pornography, but to violence. As a result, we have, of course, used an updated edition, as it were, the expression used in connection with these crimes today. I've got to be able to do a lot of motivation for this work on the Pirates' bill, and the reasons why it's one of our issues for this council. It's an event that Piratar and I had last year at the Norwegian House under the heading Raddi tolerationists, where we heard from many brave women who described their experiences of being the victims of sexual crime in the Icelandic legal system and the receptions they received and their experiences in it. There, a great fighter and a friend of mine, Júlía Birgisdóttir, gave a very dramatic talk that I believe can still be reached on the Norwegian house's web, about her experiences of digital sexual abuse to the police, and about how devastating it would have been to meet a closed door and the complete lack of understanding of the entire system of what had been wronged her. She's been talking about it both in the Norwegian house and also in Drusun walking not long ago. Her great struggle for improvement in this group of paintings has included: Put that bill back. I would like to thank her especially here in this talk. So I'd like to go to the bill itself, and I'd like to step up to the point that it says, but it says, by permission of the President: ▪ By bill this, digital sexual abuse is banned and punishable by the disposition of distributing, publishing, producing or producing images or audio elements that show a naked or sexually acceptable person's behavior without his consent to granting fines or six years of imprisonment... The bill adds to the data set in the previous bill made a criminal penalized decreviction of the sciled images, or an unsupervised version of that material. It is also suggested that the distribution or release of a fake image or audio material, whether in the context of photographs, videos or other forms that show a naked or sexual indiscriminately, be punished... The bill suggests that such violations may be fines or prisons up to three years. The bill has also changed since the last donation that guilty offenses must be punished and regulations that have also been added to be punished when it is tolerated by a child under 18 years of age. This is one of our many responses to the comments on this matter when it was submitted last year. We believe that we have met with as good as any comment that was made on it last year and that we have improved the limitations of the experts who visited the General and Education Committee during the last treatment of this case and presented to us, including the district attorney and other experts in these matters. This is one of the changes, which is said to include dysphagia in case of fractures against individuals under 18 years of age. We also added a new paragraph, which means that punishment should not be judged when the act is prejudiced and carried out in a grammatical way. Finally, we moved to where the law should rest in general penalties, i.e. that instead of suggesting a 1st par. The bill would be 210. g. c general penal law, she would be 196. gr. a general penal law. If it is better to meet the general penalties and address the seriousness of the work being done, it is placed in the same place as sexual abuse, and thus not in the same place as distribution of material that shows the sexual activity of children, so hopefully I put it in the right way. This is also an attempt to respond to comments made by experts during the last treatment of this case. This is also shown in the report, by permission of the president: In the past few years and decades, technological advances have greatly increased the presentation of images and audio elements that reveal a naked or sexual activity of individuals without any evidence or agreement for distribution. Such a substance has sometimes been referred to as vendettas, such as venerating porn, or freckle porn. The use of words, however, will not be viewed as vivid for the act, which is not necessarily intended to avenge anyone or to stumble anyone, nor are the ideas of people as to how pornography differs greatly. Thus, the act is described as a digital sexual abuse. For current legislation, it is stated in a paper with the bill, by permission of the President: The law of the United States has been a law against the spread of pornography, which is found in 210 C.E. General penalties, No. 19/1940. When substances containing sexual practices are distributed without permission in it, the distribution is strictly a violation of 210 grams. a general penal law. However, the use of the law in combating digital sexual abuse is not always easy. First, at best, the definition of the term is unclear, controversial, and conflicting views of sex. Thus, the public citizen is not able to determine when to use pornography according to the law and when it is not. Although the word itself is ancient, and both courts and scholars in the centuries tried to identify a definition that is understood in the same way, it is true that there is no definition as courts, scholars, and the common people can join together. It is not likely to change in the near future. Second, digital sexual abuse does not necessarily involve personal pornography according to any of the many definitions in existence. Although the term has been difficult to define in many parts of the world, where the agreement exists that a form or sound that shows nudity without sex practices is considered to be a case of pornography today, even though it may have been a past nudity, though it may have been a case of pornography. However, the transporters of this bill feel that the distribution, publication or production of materials that show a naked person without sex practices will be punished if there is no consent from the relevant person. Third, the penalty line is 210. general penalties too low to reflect the seriousness of these errors. At the same time, however, it must seem unacceptable to raise the line of punishment for the distribution of pornography that they are making up for the distribution. There's a 210 st degree in progress. general penalties were not used when individuals are charged with distribution or publication of material that would concern Article 1. This bill. It seems that only the behavior was applied below 209. g., in discussing fractions of shame, a sign that has been placed on the head of a different type of behavior than the one suggested here to be punished. Thus, in view of the need for a specific provision for clear violations, a penalty line that matches the seriousness of the wrong is laid. Then perhaps there's what I think is very important to this bill, and that's the clarity of the warrants. Because of the Internet and the development of social media and the large increase in their use, especially in young people, a new type of offense has simply been introduced that needs to be dealt with, a very serious offense. Then there must be very clear in our penalties that this exact behavior is involved, not referring to any old - fashioned rules of hurting shamelessness between one and no one to punish for it. In Iceland, I find it very important that we have a clear and clear sense of the fact that digital sexual abuse is sexual abuse and violation of law, so we are punished. The report also provides an excellent overview of legislation in other Norwegian countries, which I do not intend to list further, but it encourages members of Congress to study and other interested ones. I'm gonna kill down at a few more places in the report. First of all, on page 13. 4 in the report that the release of images or audios that reveal a naked or sexual behavior of an unscrupulous person is a violation of his immunity and one type of sexual abuse. A deep sense of awareness has become the last major issue of such violence, formerly known as vengeful porn, or Šhrelli porn. From this discussion it must be concluded that production, release, and distribution of such audio and imaging are not pornography in the modern sense, but one form of sexual abuse. It is the community's duty to accept the violence and to make sure that it is a penalty. This includes recognition of the position of wrongdoers and condemnation by the way offenders act. Digital sexual abuse can have serious consequences for such a course. This is of particular concern in view of the openness of violence and thus affects the social state of breaking down. The fractions to which the bill is intended have been applied under other legal requirements. The Supreme Court has been found to have court decisions in matters that, according to the bill, might be defined as digital sexual abuse. This includes: Consider the Supreme Court's judgment on the issue of No. 242/2007 and No. 312/2015, then the accused were convicted of violating shame... The second case also filed a complaint against 233rd paragraph. b, about insults or slights of a mate, a former spouse, or someone else close to him. It is clear that this article may be considered in the legal code currently applicable to such cases, although a requirement to condemn the accused may not have been made in this judicial court. If there is no relationship, there is a potential for 234. gr. general penalties dealing with delinquency. On bait 234. gr. it is a general rule to appeal to specific matters. These forms of punishment are considered not intended to counteract digital sexual abuse in particular - i.e. ... aboutruIIyingsandtheminding of ex-mates. Because of digital abuse, none of these articles directly claim punishment, so their use includes the fact that there will be no punishment for the real violence, but for the related act. When you use articles that have an original purpose, penalties become less clear and less understood. Special attention should be made according to Article 209 of par. a general penalties are the punishmental behaviour considered to hurt the shamefulness of men or to turn into a public scandal. Clearly, this wording is out - of - date and extremely unfortunate as a valid penalty warrant for digital sexual abuse. That's 233 stre. b same layer of insults or slights that are close to someone. While such behavior may involve sexual abuse, it is not the way it should have weighed the penalty but rather the violence itself. The same is true of 234 C.E. The law on the issue of delinquency. There's a violation against 234 str. not a legal case at all. 242. gr. The same law, therefore, is essential to appeal to a very serious case of violence that must be considered unacceptable. By committing digital sexual abuse, according to 196 C.E. will be part of XXII. in the general penal code of sexual abuse. It is thus certain that such violations will always be investigated when there is suspicion of a crime and charge when the evidence is considered sufficient. A serious offense, such as digital sexual abuse, is required to obtain a penalty with the possibility of a greater law than that found in pornography, shame, and delinquency. Under current penalties, there is no direct penalty for digital sexual abuse. This is what we're suggesting to fix with this bill of ours. We've done a lot of work on this. We both did so in the treatment of the case last year, where we made a great effort to meet all the comments presented in the treatment of the case on the General and Education Committee and, of course, we are very open to all the comments presented in this General and Education Committee now, and open to improve the situation. We also feel that it is very important that this matter is supported and well treated at the council of this council and does not feel that there is any basis for accepting the matter now. We are aware that it is a government task force to examine, including: These matters, thinking that this bill could be an excellent tool for them. We believe, however, that the tolerance of digital sexual abuse waited long enough for the violations to be recognized in Iceland's general penalties, so we feel that there is nothing to be done about starting that work immediately and accepting this bill. Finally, I suggest that this case be addressed to the proper management of the General and Education Committee and look forward to the discussion on that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u93	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for measuring for this bill. Actually, I'm not on it, but I'll take a closer look at it, and I've been paying close attention to it. I know why. Just as a senator is well acquainted with computers and their people, so the senator is well - versed in law and right. We're very worried, or I and I know there are others, about the Internet's use of drugs. I'd like to ask the senator how we could get a hold of it. Is it not possible to make some kind of law on that operation? It is quicker for young people and for those who want to buy drugs to order drugs through the net than for ordering pizza. I'd like to ask the senator about this thought because I have no doubt about it. A senator has considered these matters too. This isn't exactly what they're talking about in this bill, but I just thought of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u94	Madam President. Hv. A senator will answer no doubt to the Councilman Pirata, who has the slightest computer skills. [[Laugh at the conference room.]] Yet, in view of some things, I know quite well. The members of the Central Party and can at least say that there are laws that cover drug sales on the Internet. It is simply forbidden to sell drugs in Iceland. All it takes is the will of the Minister of Justice to handle the matter accurately. It could be a priority for that, tops. Minister, if she had the desire. As far as I know, 80 million people are paid to deal with some sort of undefined, organized crime, but especially drug transport. I bet you could take 10 million and throw them into some chat group on the Internet that sells drugs, if the top. Minister of Justice wants it. Like I say, there are laws in this country that forbid drugs to be sold. I don't think there's anything to change them to deal with this if it's government priorities at any time. And I don't think there's any special laws to get to know how it's done on the Internet, any more than anywhere else. It simply takes the funding and priorities of the human race and the political will for it to be done. It's certainly very difficult to tackle, because when one page is taken down, another comes up. I'm sorry, there's one thing that I, rather a computer addict, can say. A senator says it is very difficult to get angry on such pages, and it is very difficult to close them. Hence, such measures usually work. In fact, I think it would be far wiser to attack the prevention and harmonization than to pursue the windmills in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u95	V.E.G. President. Maybe I'm just like Don Kíkóti, fighting cigars. But I've heard that there's no such thing as coming up from another site in this world, and it's also being discussed in a language that no one can understand except those who are dealing with the insulation of the drug trade. This is a serious matter, even if you make fun of it here in a child, it's a serious matter of this world's trade for illicit drugs. Sometimes you have wondered if it was better in this blessed drug world that it was all on the table, but then I think that the nations would have to come together. But I want to thank you for that answer. Although the senator thinks he is the best Piratian - average, yes, it's only so short since I know how to turn on a computer, it's hard to compare with that. [[Average.]] But I appreciate those answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u96	Madam President. I simply want to come up here to take it up to the point. Marty's members are invited and ready to help. Central Party Parliaments to enter the Internet and the computer world If they're interested in it, it's available, and that's a hell of a lot more professionals than I know. I really wanted to talk about digital sexual abuse, so I'm going to get involved in it. But in terms of having everything on the table, I cannot resist the opportunity and mention that the stated policy of Porta is that drug abuse should be taken in order to reach this health problem in a more comprehensive and beneficial way. It is scientific proof that the damage and prevention of drugs are far more effective in reducing youths than ever that they need to be intimidated by every officer they see because they have unclean flour in the sachet corner. This has been shown by one study after another. Now, we've seen a pivotal report from Global Alliance on Drug Policy, and I'm always forgetting how it is translated in Icelandic. It is a very large and extensive United Nations report that the war against drugs has simply been lost. The cost of sacrifice is immensely high, and it is time to take these things away. I'm going to close this discussion on anything other than this bill by saying, "Incriminate drug abuse. "
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u97	The president would like to kindly point out the matter and encourage it. Senators to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u98	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Asvardsdóttir for good history. It is really important that we discuss how we want to see an update to the penal code and how we react to a new digital reality, which this bill does well. The current regulations of 209, par. does not guide this situation because it has been new to date, so I think it is good to deal with in the way the bill does. It is also clear that various indications have been taken into account that occurred last during the treatment of the Parliament with significant changes in my opinion. I think, for example. that the location of the current law is much more natural than previously, that production and distribution are being taken as it is now, and that there is a clearer distinction made between large, deliberate, and unintentionally in that matter. I'd like to see the bill being treated for a discussion and a concierge, and I'd like to think it's good. The fact that no member of the Independence Party is involved does not mean that there is no support. I did not personally realize that I had been specifically tried to get members of my team to investigate the matter. In the big context, however, it does not matter, though some may want to make an assessment, but it does mean that the matter is settled and that it is handled well at the council, an important discussion is made. I believe there are still some aspects of the church treatment that need to be considered. Like what? paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir made a pleasant impression on the subject that they have shown by the changes made between councils. What you think about is the legal standing of children aged 15 to 18 in this regard. This is a group that needs to be more careful about many things. The bill is trying to deal with fake footage and sound elements. They need to consider whether this is a violation of sexual freedom. There is a greater need to think about how counterfeit digital material is above the head of our legislation. I think it's important to get reviews about this aspect of the case, especially whether it's appropriate to address it in a larger context, make it bigger to debate, and what is the right setting for fake images that are not of the individual. Then it is also the role of the council to examine the line of punishment in the context of other legal requirements. For example, release, product use and distribution of paediatric wastes are two years. 210. g. a and in the bill we're considering is suggested to allow the penalty for an intentional transgression of six years. In cases where the person in the picture is less than 18 years old, you might be able to determine whether or not the arrangement might result in some mistakenity. This does not mean that in both cases the matter is not very serious, but the whole law needs to be viewed as the addition of a new set of laws, how it harmonizes with other requirements like this and what has now been based on a judicial action. I believe this can lead to a good discussion of our penalties and the need for change in other places in line with new reality.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u99	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for his support, as well as for his helpful tips. As for counterfeit footage, I wanted to discuss it just in particular - perhaps just to explain what is meant by it in the bill. For example, the capacity to set, e.g. A person's head views pornographic images of others and scatters them to humiliate or taunt the person. This was one of the indications that we received the transfer of the first bill we're responding to by adding to this bill. I can totally agree that there is good reason to see if this can be transferred into other aspects of our legislation, using counterfeit footage. However, this is a specific procedure for this crime, i.e. in this becoming crime, hopefully, which we are about to commit to this, as if not to be viewed as serious. As far as I'm 15 to 18 years old, I just need a better explanation for the nature of the problem. A senator's comment is appropriate. We realize the difference in this 210. .. about distribution of sexual footage with children, that the line of punishment is less high. That is why we also add as a criminal increase of over 18 years of age to demonstrate the severity of child breaking, that we are in no way minimizing the distribution of child pornography as it is commonly called.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u100	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this. She explained to me about this age group, that there are other laws to consider. It's important. What she then came on with the counterfeit, I examined only, and there it is talking about the English word "keep fakes," which is certainly a great stunning and humiliation. What I wanted to say is that this will lead to a discussion about digital privacy in so many ways, because fraud can happen only in this matter. I wondered, " Is there a bigger discussion that needs to be dealt with with with penalties and other matters, because it's being tried in this bill? ' [[Up front.]] - I thought I came into it, which was what I was mostly wondering about child abuse, that it's a different penalty and if we can land somewhere in between. I think that this age may need especially to be considered when we consider everything that might happen, whether it is a doer or a person who may be 17 and 18 - where this will fit. I think there may be some kind of space that we haven't thought about, either me or anyone else.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u101	Madam President. I can say my whole mind with a bang. A senator for good reason is to examine digital immunity in a much larger context than we do in this bill. We feel, however, that we have been waiting long enough for a total law against digital sexual abuse to keep us from stopping us in this case. For peers and individuals under that age, we also know that there are other problems with the law of law in this regard. Such a violation may even refer to an 18 - year - old who is sending pictures to one another or something like that. This has been noted even if these articles do not cover them and are not intended for such a situation to develop, i.e. that children under the age of 18 may be accused of voluntary acts. There is something to be considered, and, in fact, the general penalties have come well to their years, and as a basis for a general review of that law, they have become very, very old. Other than that, I thank you. A senator for his support, and again he declares us ready to accept all indications. I believe it is very important that we work this case in the greatest peace with most members of Congress at this council. The time has long come for this act to be a crime here in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u102	A respectable president. It's gonna be a short one. When I was discussing the forgery, which is where the subject of the bill is introduced, I was just talking about it on my own instead of the bill itself; it does not mean that we need to postpone a discussion on this matter in order to take up a discussion of digital privacy. I just wanted to draw attention to the fact that this fake footage is being dealt with in the bill, that there's only one breath of the big issue that's being discussed here. I'm glad to hear it. A senator has also examined this about children under 18 years of age and thought that this would not be the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u103	Madam President. I would like to comment on this fine subject under discussion. Both of them. The members of the council mentioned here handled the matter well, and the discussion has been a fine one. I didn't expect anything else to happen, and I believe it would remain. This is an extremely important matter. We live in a reality that has already fallen on land in cases that would be under this bill and under the law, they will be realized, despite the fact that the Council did not define this concept in law or put in a box of penaltys. In effect, we are responding to challenges we face and have been facing for some time. There is also much evidence that we are a little late. I'd like to think about 1st bit. The bill that reads, by permission of the President: ▪ Anyone who deliberately scatters, shows or produces an image or audio substance that shows a naked or sexual behavior of an individual without his consent... ~ This is the first part of the sentence. I think we can all agree that there's some pretty undesirable behavior at least, that shows the examples. In other words, it may be said that it causes more differences that follow in the sentence, the punishments, or the imprisonments as long as 6 years ago. This range of sentences primarily shows the diversity of the available fracture potential and the primary language was well covered, age variability and production of the products presented. I'm going to take this barge for discussion because I've heard that men think it's a little far away. But if you keep in mind the damage it has caused to individuals whose lives have been wasted, then there's an enormous number at stake. The Lawgiver is simply responsible, has work to do, and has interests. He has interest in victims, and with this legal process and his work here, lawgivers have the interests of potential tolerability. That's when we're talking about the majority of the public, no less. Although some men still champions have claimed it, they believe that women, for example, do. to blame yourself for undesirable pictures of them in distribution, people who are happier in general with a more mature sense of justice than that, understanding the seriousness and importance of the matter. We live in a digital world. We have two choices. One is to force more people to move them into some frame where nothing can harm them and the other is that the lawgiver responds in a way and makes it clear that a species, including the one listed in the bill, is not only undesirable but lawless, illegal, and protected from punishment. The fault is not a fault to the offender but to the transgressor. Then we've got all kinds of equipment to do it because we're just going to dip our toes into the pot of the digital world. It's been really good at how we're right to kill on certain things there. The definition of law does not have to be complicated. It is a political decision to provide such a violation of the law. I haven't realized that there is a lack of political will. We need to recognize the new reality that we are facing. As I said before, we're not in the lead there, we're the only ones around. I am the opinion, despite acknowledging and completely realizing that this will not cover the digital world, that there is no reason to delay it. We've got a full analysis going on, and no reason to think that this will delay a complete examination in any way. However, there is good reason to insist that this will help, and even if it does not, the time has come for it to be defined by law. I look forward to a further discussion on the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u104	Madam President. I'd like to welcome this bill very much and thank those who took the initiative to make it a great deal. In our digital world, the Internet can't forget anything, and it's incredibly burdensome for individuals to get exposed to digital sexual abuse. As a lawyer, I have seen in my job that on chapters, they have been unable to distinguish between the pain resulting from sexual abuse, physical violence on the other hand, and so digital violence on the other hand. Often, this violence, sometimes accompanied by the physical aspect, is actually more burdensome and more long - lasting because it remains in fear of continuing offenses. That's the fear of breaking the pieces going on forever and ever. It must be absolutely clear in the law that it is completely forbidden. As individuals, we need to be aware of the severe punishment and punishment of such offenses. Those who have been judged either because of some form of shame or distribution of pornography. Depends on the footage. Either way, it's only been six months. And when you read the judgments, you see that, in fact, judges are very aware of the seriousness of this violation, because while the wrongs that have been judged in these cases may not have been so high, they have come near very close to the wrongs that have been judged out of physical abuse. It is clear that judges in the country who listen to the violation rate and get the evidence on the table in front of them, understand the seriousness of the situation. But because of the law as it has been to this day and still exist, but hopefully now, with this bill, it has not been possible to judge to a greater degree of punishment than we have seen. It's probably a probationary sentence, but that's because there's a possible primary fracture. The line of reference must be higher. Therefore, it is important to accept the bill as it is, i.e. prisons up to six years, and in cases of gross inadequacies, it is a matter of fines or imprisonments up to three years. Only in discussing the need to consider the shameful context of this law, i.e. With regard to children, you might wonder if there is a certain overlap. However, it has to be noted that 210 gr. general penalties for distribution such as distribution in general of images or images of someone who is really unknown, that it is merely a distribution of pornography. It may be distributed on some footage as the suspension does not know the subject. This makes it clear that there is someone who does not agree, that there is a certain individual who is involved in wrongdoing. At any rate, as I read this law, I feel it's the difference between twenty-two hundred twenty-two. and the specifications outlined here. Pornography can be spread by some foreign channels or such, but it is more commonly referred to as digital sexual abuse directed against specific violations of the Mosaic Law. While it is true that it is proper to consider this matter in the context of other principles, I felt that it would be appropriate to say so. Of course, the discussion about what to do if a person is a young person, there are two requirements in the penal code of 70 C.E. as well as 74. that pertains to it. 70th. It is recommended that punishment be taken into account in the case of a person's young age, so we have it in the general law of justice, and it has been administered many times and is only repeated. This too is done in physical abuse. With regard to 74th par. It is not considered because there is no minimum in the bill. It's only tickets or prisons up to six years, or up to three years. But seventy-four. suggests that if a person is very young, it is possible to go below the minimum. For the sake of the fact that the penitentiary may be a major change or an overall review, I'm not necessarily sure, because the penalties are making very repeated changes and have made very much changes over the years. That's one of the principles I would like to suggest that we work on improving and doing things and perhaps just doing them during this council, i.e. that we take special note of how we are going to handle the situation in a hurry. Apparently, chasers somehow escape the criminal responsibility I think society agrees that they should bear. They get some of it because they shoot to the side. It seems so fun that we are, of course, covering a second bill involving a restraining order. I think we need to revise that part of the penal law. Other than that, I'd love to celebrate this bill. I'd love to wear it. The General and Education Committee to discuss this, but my trust is a good member of the House, the Guðmundur of Thorsson Thorson, to take good care of this with other members of the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u105	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for his speech and why. Parliaments for bill input. We will discuss one of the disgusting offenses, which are sexual offenses, and digital sexual offenses are just as bad if they do not even worse if they fall victim to sexual abuse, as they do. A senator came in okay. I try to come up and ask why. In view of her experience with such matters during her former career, a senator referred to in her speech. The Court's review of the case, when it was submitted to the previous council, and I admit that I don't know the case very well and I know that there have been some conflicts, that a judicial committee has not completed it, and that further diagnostic work and preparation have been needed. The district attorney points to a similar factor. As much as I care about, as I keep everyone in this room, that the crime of digital sexual abuse is also very difficult to deal with in the general law of penalties and changes and the importance of careful management. I'd like to hear from what I hear. A senator will see if she sees the situation as it is now or if further diagnostic work is needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u106	Madam President. Thank you. A senator very much for this answer. I explained that it was being said that it was not possible for members of Congress to handle the contributions of Congress or primers enough, that in some way they were passed by a judicial committee, that was a general penal law, and that they presented laws other than laws. I have to say, I don't agree with that, but that's just my opinion. I think we have every opportunity at the council to do this well and often win the Senate case better than a government case that will arrive at the council at the last minute. The Court's Committee of Justice and the Court's Association can very easily produce reviews in which they make material comments to the bill and relate their experiences from a professional point of view, but the authors of the bill did not write it in a backroom in their home basement but supported both research and information from professionals and teachers. There are also committee experts who assist members of the Parliament. I think we should avoid minimizing the important role of members of Congress and following up matters for which members of Congress are burning. I think it's a very important part of our job at the council to do this sort of work and put up a case that we're burning for.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u107	A respectable president. My words are definitely not to be understood, so I don't want to protect the right that this is a Senate bill, and I realize what it is. A senator is leaving when she refers to the review I asked about the Justice Department. I'm just saying that it's very important that the senators put in their bills. You can see from this bill and the report that much work has been put into it, and it is also clear that this bill has been submitted in different forms several times, and I suppose that it was taken into account the important stories that have been presented in a considerable way. For my part, I'm glad we're discussing this important matter. I hope all its parts will be reviewed. I have no doubt that I am ready to support all good things. I think that all of us agree on the importance of dealing with sexual abuses and, of course, the emotional abuse of sexual immorality. But I want to come in for a moment. A senator mentioned about the chasers. We regularly hear horrible stories about such matters and sometimes a person sacrifices and wonder what is wrong with our environment. Or is it the way of the law or what? Because of it. A senator knows such matters from a different field of life if he believes that we need to make changes that we have to make in the Law, or whether this is primarily about the compliance and follow-up of the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u108	Madam President. Thank you. A senator very much for later an answer. I did not mean that the senator was questioning the rights of other senators to make a point. Actually, I'm sorry that the judges Society does not engage in a material discussion in the review. It turns out that it does not seem time to do so but, nevertheless, is in a material discussion with a review, or should be. I think we must call for material reviews so that we can get a good discussion because this is not the first time that the matter is presented. About the second question about a stalker, I think it's very important that we check that out too. We have various legal requirements regarding privacy violations and then we have a law on restraining order and expulsion from home and such. But as for the violation of privacy, we may be at the same place where we are, and with digital violence, the line of punishment is very low, and there seems to be little difference. Apparently, he does not have enough muscle powers. Of course, we sometimes have situations that seem impossible to provide the needed protection because we cannot lock people up and throw the key forever. Even if the person goes to some sort of bail, that decision may be six months, and so is the person out and beginning again. That's the situation the police are in, not just being able to make the person disappear. It's just horrible. It is horrible not to be safe at home, and unfortunately, all too common. [[The president calls.]] But we may talk about it in our next discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u109	A respectable president. I am one of the 24 members of the council who present this case, and I want to take advantage of the opportunity to thank the 1st transporter on the opportunity to help in the progress of this timely and important matter. What's legally interesting about this is that here we have crime and the part of the law that's not technical. Earlier today, a drug dealer was discussed, and it does not matter whether drugs are sold through the net or elsewhere. Because of the ban on drugs, new technology does not change them. Similarly, in the law of penalties, most of the crimes of nature do not make any difference, despite the development of new techniques for killing men, killing is always forbidden in the same way, regardless of how it is carried out. Here we have crime where new technology and new social patterns or new opportunities for communication have an effect. Then, all of a sudden, there was a gap in the law that we hope to fill with this bill. I'd like to mention two groups of people in particular. First, I would like to mention accusers who have only been mentioned in the discussion. I think that it can be strongly suggested and thanked for their thinking that they have come to realize that shameless acts of wrongdoing could be accused, might be charged with insults or slights against their ex - spouses, or what all these strange legal features might be called, which have recently been used as a limp of those who suffer severe sexual abuse. Although the penalty is not satisfactory and this is not clear enough, it has been a piece of shit that may at first be enough for a while, but it is now time for us to set clear regulations in the law, especially on digital sexual abuse, both that the penalty warrants are clear and that the penalty is proper and also to fulfill the role of the law, in order to make sure that the conduct is forbidden to all. There is no doubt that people who grow up to be accused of digital sexual abuse by some of the principles that no one knows what means to see the same evidence between the offense and the penalty, so here we are really making a ransom. Then there is the other group that cannot be mentioned too frequently in this context, and it is the young women who made this issue their subject. Then I'm talking about the tolerationists, friends, thousands of women who had a digital sexual abuse in the spring of 2015, when they joined together under the signs of #frreenpple, and awakened more generations of Iceland to the reality of a new generation of women. Women growing up as native Internetmen suddenly committed a crime that even older people didn't know existed. That's why they were missing the law, not just because it was a new crime, but because the people who do the law, the people who work in this house and set the laws, did not know that it was happening. Madam President. That was almost four years ago. When we have completed these legal improvements, I think we can only ask ourselves, " Do I want to ask myself, " Do I have a chance to be able to respond to what is black in white to the fact that a simple change in penance is a possible reason why people don't have enough faith in the political class, in the work of the legislature, that we, with the responsibility, respond and make necessary and important improvements? ' I think, Madam President, the generation that made us think about the social ills that digital sexual abuse is pretty much concerned about how long the system has been listening and responding. That may be the least of the reasons why we have to start finishing this matter. This is important, not only in behalf of the victims of this trial but also in order to show that we are subject to our democratic role.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u110	Madam President. I come up here mostly to thank you. A senator for entering two very important segments of this discussion that had not clearly been made clear to this point. First, the action itself has to do with this new technology, i.e. Because the Internet and media technology are used to commit sexual abuse, new laws are, of course, needed to handle the problem. The discussion has not been clear enough until now, and I just want to thank you. A senator for pointing this out. And secondly, I'd like to thank you too. A senator for referring to #frrethenpple, who, of course, should have mentioned, which is one of the main factors in which we are aware of the seriousness and extent of their being. For the final words of what? For four years, I take my heart to respond to society's pleas for the protection of immunity and immunity, especially the young girls of this country. I wanted to ask you what. A senator would also not feel that we in this room, to strengthen our confidence in the work we are trying to do here, will there be some way he can compensate for the damage they have suffered because of our system's terrible failure to protect their rights? Then I'm talking about the system being hovered in, there's a lot of resistance received and we've been hovering about doing this. Is it not time to install some committee of truth and find some way that we in this room can apologize to such ones and really react to and compensate for the damage? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u111	Madam President. When you ask a big one. I think we have to do a lot to turn away from the protocol that society has been making regarding sexual misconduct, especially, but we could also mention violations against children and disabled people. There are many groups in the community where the system has failed. The first step is to improve the system, and then perhaps it is as if the senator mentioned a reason to look back and improve those who have suffered the damage. I don't feel it's necessary to go after it. I think the main thing is to clean up all these systems mentioned by the senator. It's the justice system, the health system, everywhere the system has touched victims. We need to do so in order to make sure that they are believed, that we have failed, and that we have experienced that the system has responded correctly, whether it has the conviction of the bacteria or in some other way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u112	Madam President. I can agree with that, although I feel that the very first step is to accept the problem too, and we are, of course, doing here in this symposium, the two of us. Senator. I'm sorry, though, to see that there's not much more to admit about this problem in society. There is a considerable lack of evidence, that I think, especially that those who have caused this party to change things to better admit that there is a huge problem. As a result, we who are responsible in the community owe victims and become tolerant that a proper system will receive them, not only in the legal system, but also in the health - care system as well. A senator also referred to crisis relief as well as to long - term treatments that are entitled to be considered. For example, the children who have been abused for a long time or who have experienced chronic violence must not merely a free organization. In our system, there is very limited support available for people who have suffered tragedy, especially children who have been severely affected during childhood. By not creating a proper environment for them, we are actually creating a smiling future for people who could have given much of them and who would have a good life. But these are bigger questions than I'm going to. A senator answering the question now. I simply wanted to wonder that there is, of course, a reason for larger action than these, though this is, of course, an important step we are taking now. Thank you. A senator for the support and for the transport.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u113	President. I thank the senator and want to agree again with her that we have entered a community place where we now need to think a little bit more deeply about how we react to violence in our community, how we improve people, how we work to prevent them, how we guarantee people the possibility of living safely in society. We do so in various ways when it comes to traffic security, e.g. or prevention of superfluous conditions. The government then has much to contribute, understandably, in response. But when it comes to violent defenses, we still need some violent reserve, as we have a similar amount of force. So I take my heart to these ideas of the senator, as well as, what should we call it, I think I'll die with her because it takes senators to file this case. Of course, a justice minister four years ago should have made such a statement and finished it or three years ago, or two years ago, or last year. But that is not the reality we enjoy. Then the senators will come out with a complete case, and we'll finish it together.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u114	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for his speech, but he would like to discuss just the speculations that have been presented here recently. Yeah and no, I'd say, because sometimes it's good to let the dust sit down before you react by law. Of course, legislation is very decisive. In this case it has been evident for a long time that there was a shortage of the law, a lack of resources to cope with these new acts of violence, digital sexual abuse. So I agree with what has happened here that, of course, it should have been long ago. Where, then, are we? It's been made up. This is, I think, the third time this is being submitted in a short period of time. Then it is our senators to file this case through the council and work on it. If you are on this great committee, the General and Education Committee, you need to keep the Chairman of the Committee on the topic so that this case will not get at the bottom of the budget because there are members of Congress who present it. It's the politics here at the council, which, of course, is very bad, that it's the way it works against very good things. That's what's been going on here. I'd also like to ask the senator if he would like to be with us at the United States Congress to suggest changes in budgets that increase financial resources to the police so that the police can do their jobs. I'll make this a little better in my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u115	A respectable president. This case is presented for the third time, but it has changed several times. As if for the first time they were asked, it shouldn't have run out. As it was suggested until the last winter, it would have had to be adjusted. These adjustments have now been made between councils. The bill we have in our hands today is the best version of this matter ever received to the council. I've been sitting on a General and Education Committee for the past two years investigating this case. I can't say that the members of the committee were anything but united in finishing the matter or, let's say, agree on the need to make these adjustments. As mentioned in the preceding discussion, there was a systematic objection from the members of theJustice Committee and the Court and such officials who have some weight in the General and Education Committee. On the other hand, I would have liked to see the fact that a court committee had simply been assigned to turn in the motion of changing the case so that it would be settled within what she could see. This may be the goal of a case that can be pointed out, that a judicial committee is made to overstep any changes in penalties, while members have no access to the committee for their changes. You might consider that it does not have to be adjusted.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u116	Madam President. I'll join you in the surprise of what happened. A senator with regard to a judicial committee and this interaction. As the Court's Committee of Justice responds to this, it is as if she feels that she is unable to make comments or suggestions because she does not write the bill. I don't agree with that, and it's our job here. We get bills, whether as directors or senators bills, that are not perfect, imperfect. Some of them are not yet ready, not adequately investigated, either by the layman's bills, who are full of experts, or by members of the council. Then the case's treated for Congress, and we call the experts and professionals, even giving counsel to guide us to exorbitant bills. Of course, that is what we want to do, and there is nothing wrong with it. It's only very good that once you've seen it, it's the law that counts. Those who work with the law in the judiciary will examine the tribunal treatment, see if it changed, whether the bill changed; look at a paper with a bill, look at the commission, and all are legal evidence. So it's completely satisfactory. The question I brought here earlier, the fact that we have to support the police so that the police can examine these violations, it's difficult for the senator to answer, because it's been submitted so late. I randomly took two judgments that I saw on the local courts website. It was now in October in a sex - crime case where an act took place on August 1, 2015, and against a child or children where an act took place in January 2017. This case was just completed in the province right now, and I guess it's going to land rights. As a result, the police have been completely undernourished financially. [[The president calls.]] It's a serious matter, and I'd like help. A member of our council's proposal for reimbursement to the budget bill we're going to discuss next week, which is an adjustment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u117	A respectable president. It may be strongly asked that bills will be made perfect for the council, but it is our job, as the senator notes, to draw them out and polish them until they have the point of becoming a law. I think the foundation laid here in a bill form is the idea of going into penalties. I think, as I mentioned in my first answer, this is the best attempt to get a digital sexual abuse into the lyrics that have come to the General Treatment. That's why I think we should just settle down. If there's something rigid about her having to have something to say to that, we need a full-scale educational committee to be a good student of her to do our part in order to get us to finish this. I, an acquaintance of those who sit with me on that committee assume this case will be well placed in our hands. Regarding promoting law enforcement, I wholeheartedly agree with the senator's statement that it is important to improve the budget of law enforcement, especially in the treatment of sexual abuse. It has, at least, been headed for the past few years, although the trial may not have always been that additional funds to the police are bringing in the actual growth of her service or her research capacity. I just wait to see these suggestions from the United States to take a stand for them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u118	Madam President. First, I want to thank you for the fine discussion that has taken place on this important subject and review some viewpoints that I did not know well but that it is important to come on. Hv. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðrk's Friðriksson only came into the line of punishment, discussing in general that some might feel as if by six years of digital abuse, it was only too much of a penalty to commit a crime that was just too severe, without her laying judgment on it as I understood it. So we simply wanted to say that we are discussing sexual abuse, and we have a very wide line of penalty, e.g. for rape because we're talking up to 16 years of punishment for that offense. That's why I find it perfectly normal for such fractures, which could even add to the rape if we let it be recorded on video and then distributed to the Internet forever, at least A six - year sentence in the case of serious wrongdoing. We also commented that we did not have this lowest possible version, which was guilty, and put it in because these fractions can certainly be many and varied, and there are many factors that can result in a degree of penal reduction, of course, without us wanting to set some conditions for it accurately. Then I wanted to talk to you about what had come into the house for a few years. Councilmen in charge of the Court's review, for this had not been reviewed by a judicial committee and they needed more weight. However, it must be said that the prosecutors, the police, Stepamoth, various women's rights companies, various acquiescs against rape, and other experts have assigned this assignment in one way or another, for which we are very grateful, and would like to say that we encourage the Justice Society to assist us in the work of this important matter. We also encourage a judicial committee to assist with this and simply to engage in any job that seems to be lacking, if necessary, in order to end this matter despite the matter of Congress. We're what we are. The members of this council, the legislature authority, must have the right to establish the legislation that we believe is essential in Iceland. Why else would we be here? I'm not going to have it all any further. I want to thank all those who participated in these discussions, and I especially want to thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for taking part, the only man who participated in the discussion on the exact subject rather than on the prejudicial use of drugs. A male senator participated in the past, but this bill was not subject to material. This is true in many cases and is unfortunate. However, I would like to maintain that the 1st traveller of this matter is why. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, but I recommend it in his past. Of course, he stands, like all of us who are the carriers of this bill, as well as others who spoke in the discussion, wholeheartedly consider the matter, and we believe that there will be good, careful, and objective treatment for this time on the committee. I'd also like to report that I am quite optimistic about the fact that this case is going to work out for the last time. It is suggested earlier, it is better worked in that way so that we have considered most of the comments and that it did not find its way into our last spring's horse wedding, i.e. It is possible that if we are forced to do so, this will be the case with so - called council contracts, which was a major reason why it did not succeed last.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u119	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to change the restraining order and expulsion from home. The officials are at my age. The members of Jón Gunnarsson, Vilhjálmur Árnason, Bjarkey Olsen, daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, Helgi Herfn Gunnarsson, Inga Sæland, Logi Einar Einarsson, Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunulsson, Egilsdóttir Eglílsdóttir, and Þorgerður Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, who still lacks the printed copy available, i.e. Transporters from all groups of the Generals The bill is suggested to modify the procedure for the treatment of a restraining order, but there is no support for the implementation of household deportation. A restraining order and home excommunication laws went into effect in 2011, but the restraining bans first came into practice in the European legislation of the year 2000. By a local law, a legal authority required the application of a restraining order and the authority to dismiss a person from his home, but the law was designed to strengthen the level of law - imposed resistance, especially those who suffered family abuse. The bill was made consult with the police in the capital area, the Southland police, the female police, and the lawyers who came to work on the bill, which became law in 2011, and sought their opinions on the implementation of the law. Clearly, much can be done better when it comes to deliberation. Now there is experience with the law as well as the aim of the bill taking into account this experience and improving the treatment in terms of the application of a restraining order so that it will not be as heavy in the field, especially when the defendant is agreed to the Sheriff's decision for its application. While a restraining order and domestic expulsion may include significant intervention in human private life, there are differences in options. A restraining order is primarily a means of guaranteeing immunity, and everyone has the right to be protected from someone who is likely to harm or persecute them in another way, e.g. electronically. The removal of a person from a home involves a far greater degree of forcedness than a restraining order, so a restraining order is closer to being an insurance policy than a decoding order. It's important. Therefore, and in view of the procedure, I believe that there are reasons why the procedure should be handled in a different way and therefore suggest a change in action on a restraining order. The bill makes some distinctions between treatments involving the restraining order and separation from home, without even enforcing the rights of the defendant, and with the aim of strengthening the rights of violations by simple treatments, increasing efficiency and further distinctions between insurance schemes and forced legislation. With the bill, there is a court case treatment due to a restraining order simplified, without any change in material assessments as to whether the criteria for application are met. The law's requirement is that the defendant has committed criminal offenses, another way of disrupting peace of transgression, or that there is a danger of violating the offense. It must not be overlooked that disorder of peace is required to obtain a restraining device. It often seems, though, that despite the relatively small threshold of the law, there are stricter legal requirements. The possibility of continuing a judicial action will require an even clearer standard in this regard. However, a restraining order is to improve the rightfulness of domestic violence and other victims of violence and persecution. The objective is simple, to protect the offender and prevent further violence. So we believe that it is an important step to take in the law, but only the first step. Clearly, other factors, including those involved, need to be considered. Punishment to break a restraining order, for it is clear that, as with today's situation, they do not have enough force, as we often see in the media coverage of an area. In addition, it is important to consider the need for a new law of penalties regarding siege. That's what I'm going to follow. V.E.G. President. I'm going to take a closer look in this bill's articles to explain each change for myself. In 1st. The bill insists that the district attorney's general orders for so - called lower - quality measures are given. This is because in the current law it is recommended that only legal selection should be taken if it is not considered probable that immunity will be protected in any other way or less and is a special moderate rule. However, what involves less measures and the individual police services and courts have been evaluated for who they might be, has not been defined. Have individual police offices, including Take advantage of unofficial statements made by the defendant to stay out of transgression and to avoid contact with him as a less effective option. In the absence of less invasive measures, a further basis for the application of a restraining order is provided. Therefore, there is reason to recommend that the district attorney can establish procedures that provide such less sensitive measures, including those that can be and how they can be carried out. Creates it, including The basis for a uniform action between the Commissioners' offices in this respect. I believe that it may make it simpler to show that less resources will not work and immunity will not be protected and that a restraining order is needed. Two. The bill is made police to complete a case as soon as possible, but it is given up to a maximum of three days after request has been received. Re apart from home continues on the same daily schedule. The time frame given by the police has been too short to prepare a restraining order decision in some cases, e.g. the issues where data need to be obtained from other sources, including digitally, and process. The bill suggests extending the deadline for three days, so that police preparation can be sufficient when possible and more likely to achieve a restraining order. However, it should always be completed as soon as possible. In particular, following domestic abuse, when a person has been arrested for the treatment of a case, and his absence is guaranteed only by police for 24 hours if there is no police custody, that police management procedures and the decision to restrain a restraining order should all be taken within 24 hours. Several years have passed since these laws were passed, so there has been some experience in the construction process. Therefore, it is suggested that the police be instructed to determine the precise rate of treatment and which case requires a slightly longer procedure. The importance of paced situations is not thus reduced, especially when such a situation has been made available for the arrest of the defendant. It is important to allow the police to evaluate each case individually, depending on the events to decide whether or not the restraining order should be accelerated. Section 3. may be the biggest change to simplify the current law. There is a trial due to the application of a restraining order separated from the application of domestic deportation in relation to the duties of the police officer in making his decision on the application of the sub-requisition. Thus, in all cases a police officer's decision must be made on deportation from his home in all cases but a restraining decision is required only in cases where the written requirement of this material is found on the part of the defendant. It will thus ensure that the defendants always have the right to make the decision under the territory and that it is required within two weeks. The defendant shall be specifically informed of this right; but if the case is required, the case shall be pronounced under court no more than three days after its arrival, and the treatment should be conducted in another manner the same as before. This recommendation will not be considered too difficult to bear, on the contrary, since legal hearings do not delay the legal effect of a police officer's decision unless he has decided otherwise and therefore a restraining order is in effect until court decision has been established. Thus, economic differences because of not having to live in fear, endure persecution, or violence are guaranteed during that period. The change seeks a simple trial procedure for a restraining order, especially in cases where the defendant's consent is approved. It must be a specific decision made by the defendant to handle the case in a court of law. This law takes into account foreign laws. Often, the decision to restrain a restraining order is adopted by the defendant, more often than I think we realize, but according to local law, all such cases need to be replaced by local laws with work and cost. The defendant's rights are not being challenged. They are merely giving him a choice, as well as their conduct in which there is no conflict of opinion is simplified and stress light. Furthermore, the treatment of such cases must be considered less burdensome. In Comb 4. The bill is required of validation and law of law, and it doesn't need any further explanation. I hope it's a good subject here and in the General and Education Committee. I consider the changes to be a great improvement and to simplify the system and the laws that we now have for the sake of violation resistance. It is clear, as I mentioned at the outset, that more smells of the matter and such cases need to be considered, in my opinion, the terms of siege and the punishment of a violation of the restraining ritual, and therefore I will follow, but these are the first steps: single, and make the treatment more efficient. I suggest after a discussion, the bill goes to the General and Education Committee and 2nd over.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u120	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for the history of this important matter, expressing my wholehearted support of its progress during this council. I think it's a good job, and I think it's a good idea to get through this council, and it's important that we work together to do it. In the current law, it is enough to disrupt peace. A senator put it this way, and I would like to ask what she thinks is the main reason why it was not enough to protect the interests of wrongdoers, though the law says so. I realize what I'm doing. A senator noted that there is no precise definition of what is considered less efficient, but there could have been a chance that this could have been done earlier. Counts 'em out. A senator saying that there was some sort of fault in the system? I'm not going to list the reasons for this, but I'd like to hear about it. A senator believes that because the justice system has been as reluctant as ever to respond to a threat to the safety of people in Iceland as shown by the need for this bill's contributions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u121	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this and the support of the case I value. After reading a judicial action in these matters, I was surprised at how low the law lays. The reason for this can be multiple, I think. The suspicion of some kind of criminal offense or that other forms of peace are disturbed seems to provide only a higher threshold, which is relatively vague. One point may be that it is not clear enough what might be more sensitive when this comes, but it is certainly only different. But when it is said that peace cannot be disturbed in another way, and the defendant is becoming a victim of wrongdoing, this must mean that peace is disturbed. I think that by making a clearer distinction between what is an insurance provision and what is a means of forcedness, we are making clear that we are just securing freedom and peace with the ability to live our lives without persecution and violence. That's what I hope to achieve in some way by these changes, combined with these laws, which were done and worked well. Then I believe that these changes as a whole could affect the decision, that we're just asking for insurance, not evaluating the offense itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u122	Madam President. Thank you. To answer that question, a senator agrees with her hope that this will lead to great improvement in the implementation of these matters. I'd like to avoid much less efficient measures, but there are other examples in our legislation that, in the first place, less measures must be tried before forced planning is used. Perhaps that's why I asked why the judiciary system had been reluctant to use these pressured measures because there was no less control. Now I may speak out of feeling rather than from seeing many decisions, I've just been aware that it often seems to be a low threshold for less measures to be tested when it comes to various policies used by the state, including custody and isolation. It is very clear that all less measures must have been tested or inadequate. It seems, however, that in most cases, it may be possible to judge men in custody or in isolation even though it may be evidence that there may be less experienced options, especially when it comes to younger offenders and so on. I've felt that there was no such thing as a lack of respect. But in this case, when it comes to protecting, let's say mostly women with violent relationships or those who have to endure just a chase, the system seems extremely difficult to deal with, and it feels that there is a need to look at a less sensitive approach. Maybe I'm fishing for each other. A senator feels that there is some systematic problem that might protect the sexes from equality. But that may be a bigger question than we can discuss now. I also wanted to celebrate at night. A senator is going to follow this case more closely in terms of the punishment of a restraining order. From that moment on, I wanted to ask you why. A senator whether she feels that there is something to do about police ability in such cases and whether there is any need for police to react faster and better, not only to punishment, but also to secure the safety of crime at the scene immediately.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u123	A respectable president. Thank you. This is for a senator. First, about the ability to react to the police she came into at the end. I think much has already been done, and special emphasis has been placed among the police on domestic violence. The ability to ensure that the defendant is held at the time of a restraining order is amongst those who have the ability to react seriously in the best of their ability, so that they do not have to move the violations of their home when the project is, of course, to transfer the defendants from home or to make sure that they are not in the same place. Of course, I've read quite a lot about it. Of course, there is often no available option, and a restraining order should be used immediately. I agree with what. When it comes to a general discussion of less options, this is something that needs to be considered. I know that the law, such as this today, was thought of as a protection to the offense, but the judicial action may not have fully demonstrated how we want the restraining order to work. It takes too much to do, and we can only respond in a way that is too mild, punished too mild, and guilty of repeatedly violating the restraining order is simply too low, in my opinion. I think there's something further that can be given to the police by the fact that each break may have more access to it, it's not always taken up in one case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u124	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a change of the U.S. Parliamentary Act, which will address at the council meetings. It's like: After the 95th. The law's coming up with a new article, ninety-five. a, as follows: It should usually be once a month, sr. 2 mg. 10. g., allow up to ten citizens to address a meeting on current issues. Each address can't last more than two minutes. The citizens should be randomly selected from an elected file. The Presidency Committee establishes further regulations on the construction of the project. Then there are some points in this regard that would be helpful if we were to include in the committee that discussed the matter. With respect to frequency, i.e. More than once a month, that would be fine with me. Less often? No. I'll set it as a minimum. The length of time, two minutes, may be longer on account of me, but I'm considering how the council works, that there's a set reference there. And then crowds, up to ten. There may be quite more because of me, but preferably not fewer. In terms of the randomness of citizens, I was told that there would be some excluded because of this, including the fact that they did not. People who are elected to local governments, not Generals. It would be possible to include a draft in rural elections to allow more people to have access. It would, for example. includes the bill we discussed in the last assembly, where the election age was reduced to 16. I'd be happy to say there's not a limit to 18 years or anyone with an election right to the Generals. There may be very young people, and perhaps more people, who live here, but only those who are limited to votes in the general election. A report says: This bill suggests changes to the General Assembly Act, No. 51/1991 with the goal of allowing voters to address a meeting at least once a month at the meeting. It is suggested that as many as ten random voters may address a recent meeting on the subject and may not last for more than two minutes. The selection of voters, the decision for speech, the execution of the law, and other aspects of the Presidency should be agreed in the rules. In the North, there is no precedent for voters being able to speak in the chamber. In the Norwegian and Danish Parliamentary Act, only members of Parliament and Ministers can speak in the chamber. It should be noted that in Denmark the voters can propose a civil bill. If the proposals receive 50,000 signatures, it may be submitted to the council as a synonym for specific criteria met and treated by the council. By the 50th. The Finnish Parliamentary Act enrolled members of Parliament on the rosary. However, the president of the council may decide to give the Council Minister, the government's legal guardian, the senator's emissary, before others are granted permission to speak up. In the 15th. The Swedish Parliamentary Act guarantees that all members of Congress and ministers may comment on all issues discussed at a meeting, with the exception of the law. If the president did not instruct the president to stick to the subject, he may not agree. There is no provision for the participation of voters at a council meeting. suggestions on how to increase the impact of citizens on the work of the council have been made. For example, in the proposals of the Council of Government and the bill, a greater part of the Commission and the Commission's Commission to the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland, 415th matter, a 141. 66. g. The bill, or the so-called national principle. The bill does not necessarily suggest the possibility that voters can present a matter of Congress. Rather, it is simply that they can address a meeting. An example is that if a special decision is made by a prime committee, who are not members of Congress, ministers, and presidents of Iceland will be held at a hearing, not being part of a Senate hearing, under the Constitution, the General Assembly, or the Congress's Convention. An example of this is the address of the president of the Danish Congress at the General Assembly meeting on the United States Hall on July 18, 2018. It may not be clear how this bill will affect the work of the council and the community talk, and other things, but I believe that it is good for various reasons that I will try to do better. If this bill is to be legalized, the need to consider that further implementation, such as any role of the members of the Parliament, I believe that the members of this body will be only viewers or audiences, how the selection of the voters and how the implementation will be performed, and in accordance with the laws of personal protection and the implementation of personal information. Transporters believe that it is sufficient for the Presidency Committee to comment on the above rules. It is estimated that the changes proposed in the bill will strengthen the democratic function of the Council. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland, the General Assembly is a representative of the nation, which includes the exclusive presence of the National Committee. The constitution. There is one exception from this principle in Article 51. The Constitution says that the ministers have their office at the General Assembly, and they have the right to participate in the discussion as often as they please, but they become members of the council. But they have a right only if they are also members of the council. In the 38th. The Constitution says that the right to bring the bills to law and motions to the conclusion has general council members and ministers. That is in the 55th grade. The Constitution that any matter should be received by the General except by any member of the Parliament or minister. The bill suggests that there is a change in the International Parliament law that voters - in a broad sense as I mentioned at the outset - will be allowed to address a meeting on the current issue, not that they have the right to bring the bills to law and suggestions to conclude or participate in other aspects of the council. Is it consistent with the order of the movers that they are allowed to go to a administrative and monitoring committee and that they will be evaluated at the Committee to see if it is necessary to submit a bill for administration with the approved bill. In view of the transport process, the bill does not involve the need for such a change in constitution, so it does not prevent changes in the way suggested in the bill, according to the precedent for the same. Transporters believe that with the approval of the bill, the General Assembly will be in charge of the promotion of democracies and political involvement, the promotion of opening up the scene and the chairman of the Council for all through random selection, that in this chair there are more faces, voices, and opinions that are not of political policy. If this bill is to be approved, I look forward to Gunna attending this talk chair and reading the fistula, that Jói explains systems, or merely reading poetry, or presenting a new recipe for bread. You can see that the general assembly is becoming more commonplace. Respect does not automatically mean being different. Respect does not involve wearing a uniform or following traditions that we no longer know why they exist. Once there was a tradition of wearing a tie, not anymore. They used to wear shoes, not anymore. Respect is not available through fences on June 17 or during the assembly. Respect is not achieved by pretending to be more remarkable or better. Respect comes by being objective, accessible, and humble toward those to whom we work. You see, we're nothing more remarkable than each other. If you had one chance, once in your life, what would you say in the public speaker? What words would you include in the history books?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u125	V.E.G. President. Humblely, I come to this chair fully dressed and shoes, following the basic tradition of equipment in general. In many ways, I find this interesting, thanking a 1st evangelizer for reviewing it. The report reviews how the arrangement is conducted at the councils of the non-National countries, on the basis of what matters to be done there, who has the right to address the council, etc. It is also considered, and it is good to examine it and see how it is in other cases. There are some questions that arise. For example, a messenger speaks of the use of a random way of bringing people in to address the council. All right. How will we do so? How will we maintain our balance? It is one thing to live in the Breiðholti and land in a random organization or to live in the north on the Kaposker or east in the Deepvogur. Do they sit individuals at the same table? How are we going to face that? How will we meet the cost of travel? How are we going to make it easy for people to show up here? Is there a possibility that we could use some technology? Is that possible? How can you tell? A senator imagined that the matter could be solved so that, in truth, everyone here would be seated at the same level of access to the council? We could then fulfill our plans to support the democratic activity of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u126	A respectable president. This is certainly an initiative, without prejudice, in view of the opinion of whether it was an example elsewhere, but it does not seem to be the case. I think this is a very good approach to making the work even more open and accessible. I believe that with randomness, which is really the most reasonable way of choosing between such choices, people will be able to bring new faces and new voices that have not necessarily taken the standard political course. Who knows what kind of treasure we can find in that? With regard to your location, I wholeheartedly agree that there is a certain problem. I'm not too worried about it because these aren't many months to begin with, although they could be quite more because of me. That should be a very good one before people know whether they will be invited to attend or not. Moreover, this would not be such a huge proportion of what is already the travel cost of members of Congress and perhaps can be considered, in order to help with the travel costs of these parties. I trust a prime committee very well to determine how it would be best to follow the rules of the Presidency Committee on how to meet different needs of people from here and from there in order to care for the most equal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u127	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The answer to that question was given to Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. You're right. A senator says that the initiative is taken by the case, and it is unprecedented. The Senator also speaks of the more voices in the council, and we have more opening voices. Some say that a renewal was too fast and too much during the council, and there are new faces and people who do not know the members of Congress. Maybe there's another discussion. But is the senator sure that this is the strongest way to make the work more open and accessible? What does he see to it that people are not allowed to come to the hall, get up in the platform, and address the current matter with a congregation meeting? What are the current issues? Shall we rule it out? How should we view this? Is it just open? The Senator speaks of people being able to come and therefore talk about recipes. Is there not a realm other than the public speaker of the Generals to discuss it? Do we have to bring it in here? Or are we gonna keep it all wide open? What do we get out of it? What do we add? Are we promoting the respect of the council? Are we increasing our transparency and understanding of the work? So, then, are we going to each time a person comes here to lead him through and open up to him the whole job and show him what we're doing? There have been ideas of allowing someone to accompany a senator for a whole day or more, just so that they can discern the scope of the work that is hidden from many. People do not realize it, thinking that the work is going all the way in this hall and from a talk chair. We don't, we know. I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-06-27.u128	A respectable president. Thank you so much for the questions. Is this the strongest way? No, I guess not. I'm sure it would be much stronger to get through what was in the bill of the Council of Control, e.g. of the nation's initiative to present a judicial hearing or a case at the council or the brakes, to stop a matter. Yet, this would definitely be the case, like a dog. A senator mentioned, in the spirit of following a senator and getting to know the members of the council more closely from within and in this way definitely enhances the transparency. I also feel that it increases respect because people get a better understanding of how everything works in the house. In a better sense and by seeing the work better, people may understand the wars that are sometimes fought here and see why they become and how they become like them. Though this may not be very serious, in some respects it can be understood. If you understand something or get to see what it really is, how it works, how it works, how you at least respect that process, because you really know how it works, not just from the outside, and not just about how it works. With the exception of the current issue, I tried to pass it through in my speech that the decision should not be made. When people are given an opportunity, likely one time in their lives, to come and speak in the Senate hearing for two minutes, what words do they choose? Don't people pick them very carefully? At least I want to believe that. I think that trying to set the subject in some way does not have the point of increasing the transparency and respect, etc. I know that everyone in this house, in an office and a committee field, is invited and prepared to help with lectures and other things that help people who come here to make these two minutes very effective. We have seen two - minute talks from members of the council and other places that have greatly influenced people. [[The president calls.]]
