ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u1	The President intends to introduce the 3 to and by 15, i.e. elections in governments, committees and measures, after the end of lunch break. 1330, followed by the 16th event, each of the income companies, 3rd Environment. and votes, so there can be votes after lunch break.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u2	To answer, financial and economic ministers, tourism, industrial and innovation ministers, marine and agricultural ministers, and foreign ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u3	Mr. President. Professional drivers now feel that pay cannot be increased, traditional vocabulary at the beginning of collective agreements, and not a reason to make a great deal of it. However, it is the fluctuation of the crown that plays many companies crying. A percentage change in the currency may have a lot more than a percentage change in pay. Odda's salary cost of less than 90 people the other day was about 38% of earnings, but the prices of imported competitors include 100% of the crews of the crown. Perhaps the management of industrial companies is more concerned about spending their time in currency, than in quality and market, and this may seem to be a cause for concern. As far as I'm concerned, it's incomprehensible what employers are poor at fighting for a constant currency. There is a possibility that a crown cannot be a place, since it is far too small a currency in the turbulent waters of international commerce. The crown's footprints are only a means of bringing money from the public to some companies, and all they give is higher inflation and less price for employees. That's why I've often been surprised at the highest language. For example, the minister of finance, where the terrible currency of a dollar's money and footposts is even regarded as a cost. Mr. President. It's under the roof. Economic Ministers justify the public and the majority of Icelandic companies living with the crown and its added fish, which are high interest and insurance? Meanwhile, big business and rich people can choose the shelter of other currency at the same time as they benefit from high interest rates and high prices. In view of the failure of our current policy, does Minister of finance think that there are circumstances to reinitiating a discussion about future currency schemes with the possibility of recording a stable currency on the table?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u4	A respectable president. Hv. A senator began his case saying that the pay could not now be increased, that would be the start of a problem. But the fact is, in Iceland pay has increased over the last four to five years about that. 40% and far beyond what is known in neighboring countries or any European Union, for example. Once we've taken out as much money as we did in the past few years, it's only hoped that people will arrive at the point that appears to be coming up, that it is difficult to continue at the same pace. That does not mean that there is something wrong with the currency. The Icelandic dollars has indeed grown strong, but the currency's very role is to swing in shape with what is going on in the economy. Thus, more money reflects what has been going on here, increases in economic growth, the massive rise in tourism. Instead of meeting half a million tourists ten years ago, we welcome two and a half million. These are changes. There are fundamental changes in Iceland's economic structure. Under such circumstances, only the currency will grow stronger - and that is his job. The late bat has said: "There is only hope for a dollar to be made stronger; it is doing exactly what we intend to do. " Here we continue to see that the foundation problem is the crew of the kroner. I simply disagree. I think the dollar did its part very well, both in the collapse, when the competitiveness of the country changed almost overnight and today. It would have been harmful if the amount of money had not been made stronger because of the changes that have just happened. That's what I'm calling attention to, because of what I'm doing. A senator says that this government of money or economics is not available in Icelandic, that this has been a small rate of inflation for four years and real growth in Iceland, the real growth of the housing bar, probably never lower.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u5	Mr. President. I have to correct the highest. Minister, I said professional drivers don't think there's room to raise pay. I was calling attention to the cramping swing of the crown, which has a worse effect on companies than on raises. One year a dollar is too sick; the other year it is too strong. What it takes to get the top. The secretary of finance sees that the cost of the crown is destroying the Icelandic home and company? Why does a financial minister want to prevent the average public from benefiting from a constant currency, lower interest rate, and no insurance? At the same time, he sees nothing wrong with the fact that big business and rich people will settle their affairs in the euro. Mr. President. The crown is for rich people, not for the common people. It's like you're weigh to the loo when you doubt the value of the crown. Answers to the highest. Secretary of finance in white is showing the interests of the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, that is the interests of big firms and banks and rich people, not the public and ordinary companies in the country. It is important that the people are in such a situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u6	A respectable president. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator simply hung on the error of quality of life to be measured in the stability of currency. We have many other criteria to measure quality of life and progress, e.g. The economy. As we examine international standards on how we are successful in securing a good standard of living in Iceland, we make our way up front among the nations. That's the way it is. That's not in spite of the crown, that's even. Because we have our own currency. I, however, am not a religious fanatic in these matters. Truly, some countries have chosen to share coins with others in a large coin area. That is their choice, but we have seen its consequences in recent years. That's when the economy swings through unemployment. We didn't do it here in Iceland, so it's totally wrong. One senator says that the public and the ordinary Icelandic citizens are being beat by our own currency. On the contrary, we have been able to get people to safety, secure them employment, and then, on the basis of our own currency, we have built up an outstanding standard of living. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u7	Mr. President. The questions are: Will the state give up its prenuptial rights in the stocks of Arion banks, such as demands, such as hedges? Will the state sell the hedge funds to 13% of what it has in the bank directly, as these parties also ask? These are simple questions, but they have been difficult to find answers from government counselors, some of whom seem to be not completely involved in these matters. But I guess the highest. The secretary of finance must be, so he asks: Will the state give up prenuptial rights in accordance with the demands of hedge funds in connection with the marketing registration of shares in Arion banks? Will they sell the funds to 13% of the government in the bank directly? The government has put together a group that will start writing a white book that covers the financial system and then we'll discuss that book within a month. Thereafter, the government is going to try to shape a financial policy, likely the most controversial case in Iceland during the last ten years. But the government has not even begun to prepare a course for itself. As events unfold rapidly forward and as a result, the government will likely find that before long, there was a lot to do with what was done by John Lennon, that life is what happens when men are busy doing other plans. I'm going to reiterate the two questions. Third time: Will the state give up prenuptial rights in the stocks of Arion banks in accordance with the demands of hedge funds? Will the government sell them 13% of what it has in the bank directly according to the demands of the same party?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u8	A respectable president. This request is based on the claim that the Icelandic state has a prerogative right to the stocks of Arazon. I would like to argue that this claim was wrong. A senator. In our time, as the matter was presented to a financial and business committee and introduced there, men generally seemed to agree that the premium was not present. Whether the Icelandic state has a prerogative for letters that may change their hands this year for the supposed registration of the bank applies to the possibility of premarital rights to the clear regulations of the stability conditions. Based on the interpretation performed with the including The Council of Bank recommends that if a person is to register the bank at the market, the right of the Premarital Court is not to be written, in a very simple matter. To answer that question, I can say: If the Icelandic State has a prerogative, it has not been decided to fail, either sooner or later, and is not being discussed today. About 13%, it is in itself exactly the same thing. No one's talking about selling live sales in 13% of the state's share at the bank. There are many things that say that it would be most unfortunate if the State was to take possession of the property that it was done in an open and open manner in connection with the registration of the bank in the market so that the market laws would apply to it. However, when the government provided funding for the development of Arion's bank in its own time in 2009, it was granted a prerequisite right that the share of the State, the 13%, without a condition at the predetermined price, was granted. According to that court, the decision of those who hold the right of purchase is one - sided to release the share of the State. In view of this, there is no need for support or request or the approval of the government of the United States. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u9	A respectable president. I can see that I'll probably have to stop asking the minister of these questions because they use every opportunity to play a position, to play away the interests of the country, and then, after they've messed up things, at government officials to explain why nothing can be done. If we'd had that approach at the time, like the highest. A minister hopefully remembers, in 2013,2016, nothing would have happened, for there could always be someone to explain to us that nothing could be done. This is where, Mr. President, these parties are asking for it from the state that they will premium their prenuptial rights and still come here as ministers, saying, "There is no guarantee that the state has a prenuptial right. Why, then, is the state asking for a decision to give up this right? Is it not important, at this point, Mr. President, that we publish all the data in this matter? It's the highest. Secretary of the budget to use me to reveal all the data relevant to these stability conditions?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u10	A respectable president. I am truly a spokesman that as much of this evidence as possible is published. A senator is not fishing in cloudy water as he has been doing in the past few months, e.g. When it's low. A member of the U.S. government just claimed that it would be possible for Arion's bank to be settled without any payment. I'm sure there was. A senator, including a member of the U.S. to indicate that the United States of England has a claim to the bank of 84 billion, which, in fact, stands only to 35 billion today, and that people would swing that bond just to solve the whole bank. What's really going to happen is what's going on. A senator of all his language is the question: Why on earth should the Icelandic state offer up tens of billions, if not on another hundred billion, to gain a third bank when the Icelandic state already has the largest share in all the countries in Europe's financial system?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u11	A respectable president. For the audience, I have to start by separating national rights from national justice. National rights are between the districts and the Supreme Court. A sentence of the land is a phenomenon found in the 14th verse. The constitution, which is as follows, by permission of the President: ▪ Ministers are responsible for all administrations. The minister's responsibility is legal. The general body can sue a minister for their office. They are judged by the Mosaic Law. This suggests that there is a court on the matter of Minister responsibility. He has only once judged the case, and this was the case with Geir H. Haardes in his day. Since then, there has been absolutely no political inclination to use this national law. So, like many other things you talk about here, I throw it in the way that it's handled in the bill of Government. There's a delay that a void is in the political responsibility of Iceland. A man would have thought he was the highest. The prime minister is responsible for a session of other ministers, but if you ask it, it points to the head of the Independence Party in the government - I'm obviously referring to the Supreme Court. Minister of Justice - you have the highest. The Secretary of the Economic and Economics of the Bjarni Benediktsson. One points to another, and all these responsibilities seem to be rather inexplicable. I'd like to ask the highest. Financial and economic minister whether he as chairman of the Government Independence Party is responsible for the seat of his fellow minister in the government. If not, then who is responsible?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u12	A respectable president. I have to say exactly as I'm saying. A senator stirs into one bowl various kinds of opinions. It is said of the land's rights and national rights and some political will that may be involved in applying the laws of the land. I'm gonna take care of it first. I'm amazed at the discussions that the law on national law is not active or fallen for discussions in the political arena that people feel the need to revise the law. Of course, the law stands as it is. It's not long since they decided to activate them. I objected to that at the time. I've been speaking of the need to revise these laws. But the law is there. In case of a moment. A senator believes that there is a reason to activate the law and to assemble a national judgment and that he is accountable to a minister, not to chess, that there is no general political will that prevents him from getting his will to do it. If they have the conviction that the right to bring up the land is right, let them speak for it. It's a great place to do that. But it is quite strange to see experts and others say that the law has been disassociated from words that have fallen here. Some have thought that this is out - of - date, and I think so. It would be good for the law to be taken as a complete review and the phenomenon to be canceled, and we brought it into a different and more general course, saying how Ministers are held accountable. But in the meantime, the law is of course. As for any government shelter, it is relatively simple that in the case of the Independence Party, I offer a proposal in the council, which is blessed, and I take it to the collaborators. I think that's how it worked for most classes so far. I support all ministers of the government, those who represent the Independence Party, and all the rest. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u13	A respectable president. I was prepared for two answers from the highest. Minister, but not this. If I understand the highest. Ministers are right, and I hope I am mistaken, at the highest point. Minister's proposal for the council for who will become other ministers, such as the Supreme Minister. The Minister of Justice in this case, and we sit there. And then nothing will happen when a minister of justice undermines a new court order in the land by law. Is the answer some of them no? That the head of the Independence Party in the government is not responsible for the seat of his fellow minister in the government? Is that the answer? That's how I understood the answer. I hope to the highest. The minister corrected it. Now it's time for this fine council to decide. So? Does that mean that there is no turning back? Who is responsible for this? The Minister of Justice will depart when they fail to do their job if not the chairman of the Independence Party in the government?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u14	A respectable president. Hv. A senator is a very interested member of the Constitution. On the basis of it, it should be quite obvious. We're here on a contingency board. The loss of members of the Trust of the Generals usually results in an act of distrust for an individual minister. Hv. Hence, a senator does not have to look to the head of the Independence Party to see whether individual Ministers in the government continue to operate in his shelter, that is the will of more part of the council that has a decisive impact on whether the Ministers serve in the government or not. It's a contingency government. That's the legal environment we're all on. I was simply trying to explain why. A senator as to how things work in the political arena of my political party. There are, of course, many reasons for making changes. Self - confidence can even do so. leads to a change in the order of the Ministry List of Independence Party, as in other categories, and is an example of this in the history of the Icelandic political life. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u15	A respectable president. I'd like to discuss the status of the microbubbles, the position of those who have not received a 40% rise in their chickens in the last four to five years, such as the highest. Secretary of finance says that it is the general reality of today's labour market. As soon as the highest. The secretary of finance says this is, in effect, acknowledging that 1st mg has been broken. Sixty-niner. Social Security Act on cost of disability. It's a big part, high to 20,000 Icelanders, microchip, so miserable that they can't make ends meet and they don't have any dignity. I know we don't get the financial plan right away, we don't get to see it, and we've put something off, but now you know that this plan is being worked on. Since it must be, you must assume that everything is going to the full in this regard, I ask: Is there any way expected to improve the quality of disability? Is it somewhere in this program, since the funds that apply to 2018 were not expected? Is it somewhere? Now we've got what. Parliaments of the same category as the highest. In this chair, the secretary of finance actually declared its support and acknowledged that it is unacceptable and completely unacceptable in our own good that a large group of Icelanders have the advantage of not reaching the end.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u16	A respectable president. First, about how these payments have developed over the past few years, we have here an answer from the social and equal minister who answers a petition from a senator to how the entire insurance agency's pay to micro-sponsored has been developed from 2005◯2017. The answer was that the pay had increased by 84.7%. Of course, people don't live in percentages. People do not survive hearing how the total financial height to the entire group developed. I get it. I get it very well. However, there is no need to belittle the fact that we have taken the least part of society's share, very much in recent years, it also extends toward disability. Hv. A senator asks: What plans does the government have to do even more? Then, first of all, I must refer to the government covenant, which speaks of our wanting to complete reformation of the rights system. As to this, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has been discussed and has been in contact, since the administration of the government, with the main interest groups of the people involved here. That conversation has started just fine. I believe the rights system is, as it was for old-time pensioners, become too complicated, there's poverty traps in the system itself, it's not too inspiring. It is my conviction that we need to be able to earn ourselves a new approach, which, in fact, hides from us. in a work programme. There are many lions on the road, e.g. The fear of those who live here is that they will lose all their rights simply to test their working skills in a labour market and then not be able to go back if that experiment went wrong. This is a small example of a case that I think we need to deal with in that conversation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u17	A respectable president. The fact is, we have a simple solution that has always been here, but it has been overlooked. Simply put, it is to give to everyone who could possibly get into the general labour market and work, pay his taxes and duties, and thus possibly get his way out of the poverty trap. Much of the disability, and growth in recent years, are young people who are physically willing to work but who are having a very difficult time spiritually. How can we help them to get out of the frame and shadow they live today? We can do so by adjusting it, by giving it, for example. Two years outside the general labour market, allowing it to get its own feet there. It pays its taxes and their duties, and we don't cut it off for a dollar. This has proved true: More than 30% of disability did not return to the improving system because it was a big matter of interest and a great cure for them to get back into society. It's us, here we, who can help them exactly like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u18	A respectable president. I agree that there's a period like that that that needs to be created. A senator suggests that people can try to be effective without fear of having their system shut down the doors in the meantime. It's a big group of paintings, of course, it's a very delicate group of paintings. There is evidence, and we must be able to discuss it at the council Hall and in the general council, that we are a failure at the former stage of the problem of getting too many into disability. You can, for example, do so. points to the number of young people on the grounds of spiritual illness in recent years. There is strong evidence of a relationship e.g. in drug abuse. We need to respond, and we need to do much better in prevention, social service, psychological care, and so forth. It will accomplish much in the increased quality of life, which is the key, but it will also give us greater strength to support those who really need support for the social security system.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u19	Mr. President. I appreciate this opportunity. I want to review a very important subject with the highest degree. Secretary of state. We'll take lead in the Council of North Pole in 2019 in ten months. It is hoped that no one will hide that this is a very important situation that we receive there, and we can have a great impact on two years of prehuman existence. In the autumn of 2016, a telepathy was held as part of a series of developments, followed by preparatory work on the shoulders of the State Ministry of State. I'd like to ask the highest. The minister of the minister's plans and the way he acts, setting up three categories, which we can call on, as we need to consider. It's Iceland's focus for these two years; the ocean, its life, the acidification of the sea, the energy level in the north out of Iceland, a communication network in the north out of Iceland, social well-being, e.g. Anti-drug and alcohol abuse by young people, such as those in the custody of Westnorden or the Council of West, and with members of the Council of Parliament, who are interested in distributing it across all the northern parts. I mention the roles of the institutions themselves or ours in all of this and then international or foreign presentations on what we are going to do. It is important that we identify what we are going to do outside the traditional North Pole work. Other nations need to know. These are the three things I would like to know as well as the way this wind unfolds.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u20	A respectable president. Thank you. A member of this inquiry and for bringing this important and important matter to the attention. Like what? This is one of the biggest challenges we have faced for a long time. Of course, we've had leadership in this field before I think it's safe to say that the severity of the jury has increased, and so has the Arctic Council so far and hopefully it will continue to be a good stage to handle these projects that will be more important every year. Our office at the State Department has given us the priority of preparation. It is not long before we begin to introduce our priorities both in the government and at the moment. State Department. Then we take it as a matter of course. A senator noted that it is not enough for us to be aware of the projects in this house and in the Council of North Pole itself. Rather, it is important that we take advantage of this opportunity and draw attention to it as far as possible, especially so important that the Icelanders, the people, come about in a clear way. Of course, it is for two years, but it goes on. The whole North Pole is becoming more important in all things, although it has always been very important, but because of climate change and the changes it will bring will be very many. Hv. A senator mentioned very important things that all are considered. I consider the key to the Arctic discussion and the password to be self-sustaining. It is not only sustainable what concerns the environment but also social issues. A senator mentioned, the economics, and other matters. I'll admit I'm having a bit of a hard time passing out on this important matter in two minutes, but I hope we have a better chance to discuss this at this point. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u21	Mr. President. Thank you. Minister of State for Answers, and I would like to mention one point I had, and maybe he could tell us more about it. What emphasis has been given in the preparatory work? I named the acidification of the ocean, for example. Is there anything he can tell us about it? Then it is important to draw attention to the newcomer with an extensive role in the north, and it is China, who has just published a white book on its Arctic policy, which is very important. I'd like to use the last few minutes to encourage members of the Parliament to keep a close eye on preparation, take part in what it can be done, and then work hard and important jobs during it in maintaining the interests of sustainable use and protection in the north.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u22	A respectable president. All that I've had. Of course, a senator named is what humans are going through now and in one way or another will be our emphasis. However, it is important that we set things that way and work in such a way that we will have some success during this prehuman period that will be noticed. Hv. A senator mentions China, and there are other countries in Asia that look very much this way. What's happening, when the shipping routes open, is nothing like the Panama Canal and the Suez Canal, so you look at some historic event, and the changes that occurred when they were going to open up. The voyage between Europe and Asia could increase by up to 40-60% during these changes, and these are occurring more quickly than expected. That certainly means a lot of challenges and dangers, of course opportunities too. We're gonna go for a second. A senator needs more time to discuss these matters here, and I'm not going to present these matters anywhere but in the right place, but thank you. A senator for drawing attention to the subject and good inquiries. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u23	A respectable president. The results of a recent report from an apartment loan fund should cause all of us great anxiety and motivate us to act. The results of this report are particularly serious in relation to the other data being collected. Let us consider some of these developments in recent times. Less than a year ago, an analysis was published by the National Book of Iceland. It covered the number of people in each apartment, the share of owners and tenants, and the same. The results of the analysis were that the lack of apartments has been increasing since 2009, with the majority missing apartments for younger people. What is missing according to the national registry are about 11,000 apartments in order to achieve the same population as before collapse. To put that number in context, it is an apartment for over 25,000 people. If they built a new community with these people, they would be the fourth largest community, just after Hafnarfjörður. At the same time, the Union's partner in the capital area gives up only about 1,700 apartments to keep the market stable and needs some 10,000 apartments before 2022. Since between these two analyses there is a dreadful inconsistencies, I welcome the new report of the Substitute Bank. A report published by the Substitute Bank says that 17,000 apartments were missing before the end of 2019 C.E. There are almost 42,000 apartments and would be one of the biggest towns in Iceland. In other words, it takes building an entire Kapovog plus Ac Arane over the next two years to obtain an accumulated need. The same example is that of other rural areas: Homing, Western Islands, Aargren, Mosfellsville, and Akureyri - combined with a combined urban need in Iceland. There is little difference between the numbers listed in the report of the camp loan fund and those in the National Analysis. They actually make up for each other. Analysis of national files is mainly going to find out how many apartments are missing if the share of the population in an apartment declines toward what it was before. That number is now 2.5 residents in an apartment in Iceland, with a high ratio compared to neighboring countries. In Finland, the ratio is 2.1, Denmark has a ratio of 2.0 and in Sweden it is 1.9. The analysis of national records shows how many apartments are missing to get the previous within the apartment, while a camp loan report shows that evolution will occur over the next few years in an unchanged population ratio. Thus, the lack is actually even greater than the one mentioned in the camp loans report. Taking into account the analysis of national files, 18500 apartments are missing by the end of 2019. But it's just the numbers. Their story is much worse. Because of lack of housing, many have returned to their parents, and at the same time fewer have had the opportunity to move out from relatives in their own homes and have the percentage of people in their parents'homes aged 20 to 23 years up to 40% in recent years. Not only housing prices but rent prices have gone up because of lack of supply that affects the wealthiest, and Iceland's first cycle area became a reality. The number of buildings in a building by the Industrial Association shows that the current number of buildings in a building should be maintained in the need for building up. The accumulated problems we live in today's world will still remain at the end of 2019 C.E. A respectable president. The project is huge, just like all the other projects we face. However, we have faced similar challenges before. After the eruption in the Western Islands, we built what was needed, and our housing crisis in the 1960's was solved, following the year 1965 of the Declaration of July. For interested people, the article "Interestion for the Multitudes, " by Eggert Bernharðsson, is required to read in my opinion. All of you go now and read that article. Time for action is now. The Declaration of July was based on June's convention of the Correctional Board, ASI, and Iceland's Employers's Union on CREEP agreements in 1964. I ask them, "What month will our agreement be taught? " It's not that complicated, the numbers speak their own language, the story tells it, evolution says it. We're in this place right now that without any more, we'll be even worse, if not the same, in two years. There's a 18500 apartment missing. We must respond.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u24	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn wife, the Leví of Gunnarsson, for taking up this matter and accepting his concluding statement about the importance of responding. However, I would like to say that it is also important to realize that there are no short - term solutions to housing. We must always look ahead of time. In this regard, it can be noted that many of the measures taken. A senator made recommendations due to laws set up during the last term. It always takes time to get them started. That is why it is very important to be well held and to be regularly discussed in the Senate Hall. It is important to consider long-term housing policies based on long-term research and programmes. Housekeeping is a business of cooperation between the state and the community. Homing plans are key, as well as housing analysis. These analyses, of course, need to be taken into account. The report cited here reveals a great need for housing and collection in relation to a certain need. It is important that the number of residences over the next few years be strong and stable, and we do not want to be shaken by the fluctuations of the last two years. Governments will continue to support the development of the overall housing system by building up the building system. It is an economic facility for the groups now with the minimum security, i.e. Cadet groups at the rented market. Increased funding is needed to build more apartments for these groups. Civilisation programmes are tools to ensure that development is stable and consistent with the needs of the people of the country. It is important that all of the rural areas in the country work on a housing plan, but this will increase the quality of housing and construction markets. On the basis of these housing plans, which should be linked to the analysis that the camp loan fund receives measures, such as increased weights and so on. They must be in line with housing plans and the needs to be met. I think we'll see the greatest change when rural society and state start working more together, then we'll expect to see the more heat cut into the rhythms of local housing programmes. As noted in the conclusion of the last week's camp loan fund, the fund will work out proposals in cooperation with the Hombourage Department to promote the development of housing in the country, but the country's habitats have been completely delayed and market failures are widespread when it comes to the new construction and funding of an apartment building. Organizational and construction legislation is in the field of a ministry other than housing. May it be said that the construction issues are not the same government and housing, because in all our neighboring countries, housing and building laws, or regulations, and other activities are under the same department because of the importance and importance of this class. It is a discussion that we too need to take in a longer period of time. It is important to achieve a solidarity of how we can change construction laws so that the requirements for housing are properly set out as little as possible for the construction of suitable apartments so that it can be achieved as effectively as possible. A building order has been revised several times in this country. In some of our neighboring countries, it is constantly revised. This is one of the regulations that have been reviewed each year because it is a living law, and it needs to be revised. A respectable president. I was going to do a little better on certain things here, but unfortunately, time won't allow it. There is a need for additional funds into the overall housing system, but it is not thought to solve the housing shortage. This is primarily to ensure that those with less income access to housing. We're gonna have to support the community housing plans, support the analysis of the camp loans and make them work together. At this point, rural areas are going to increase their property share in accordance with housing programmes designed for reliable analyses. In this connection it is necessary to present a bill at the General Assembly to help the Substitute data. We need to reduce construction costs. We also need to watch the whole country, as I came in earlier, because it must be built outside the capital area. In many respects, the situation in the country is even more serious than in the capital area, although it is very serious in the capital area. I'm celebrating this discussion. [[The president calls.]] May it be here as often as it may be at the council because the housing matters are too little to be discussed in Icelandic society and in the legislature council in proportion to how important and how large the expenditures are from household expenses. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u25	A respectable president. Business life flourishes in most parts of the country. It is time for a lack of suitable housing facilities in many places to prevent the growth of new employment opportunities. A number of powerful industrial, fishing, and tourism companies call for housing for employees. The analysis of the economic situation of the Substitution Fund suggests that there is a great need for a structure of suitable housing in various urban areas all around the country. But in the past decade, no housing has been built in many places, and the situation is serious, as noted in the highest court. Minister. The situation is far less than that, for access to adequate housing is social and health - related. Making sure that people lived in an adequate and secure home. This is a key to our success as individuals, families, and as a whole. Credit agencies have been reluctant to lend loans to many places outside the capital area and have set inaccessible conditions. Then there are not many builders who see the advantage of risking their money in the country, since the demand for quick interest is always high. Government attendance is necessary. As has been true in the field, for example, building up is necessary. Regarding scattered settlements in Norway, supported by Husbanken, the Congregation of the Substitute Bank. There's been no serious damage to that institution. It's a good way, but it takes political will and political vision. It is a government tool and has the responsibility to enforce their course at one time. The analysis of apartment loans reveals that much effort is needed. For the next few years, at least 2,200 new apartments each year, mainly in small units. Improvements in rent - market status and the stimulation of new structures, especially in the country, are therefore both major projects. [[The president calls.]] The Conspiracy proposal, laid out for the construction of 5,000 cabib sprays, is part of this large campaign. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u26	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví, the son of Gunnarsson, for bringing this important matter to the attention and to the highest degree. Social Ministry for participating in this important discussion. I give my heart to what is said in his case, that it is important to discuss these matters at the council hall. In fact, we've done it a few times in this arrangement, but in fact, I think it's a rather difficult time for such a big and important matter. I also agree with what. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví the son of Gunnarsson, and rejoice in the report of the treasure of the camp. I think it's very important that we have clear and clear information and official data on this important market. But at the same time, I'd like to encourage the highest. Minister to have an even better diagnostic work done. It's a fine report to his bridge. As noted in the case of a minister, it is estimated that there is a total of over 6,000 apartments today throughout the country. Most are in the capital area. If we make that two people live in each apartment, that's 12,000 people, or 2.5 people, who are usually here in the country, that's a total of 15,000 people. I do not minimize the great need for apartments in the capital area and the whole country. We have a certain deficiency. But I'm going to allow myself to doubt that there are 15,000 people who don't have a roof over their heads, live in parents' houses, and have money or are willing to buy an apartment. I think it's a big deal, one on the other, when we're wandering out of these numbers and the other, whether there's a potential for buying with the people inside those numbers. That way, I'd like to come in to the highest level as well. Minister mentioned, i.e. how housing would be put in our political environment and that these issues are in the hands of three stewards; for the highest. Ministers we have a discussion with here, and then the other important factors at home with the Environment Minister and Minister of Ministers. I think we need to start taking that discussion seriously as to whether this is a reasonable arrangement and whether there is reason to change and maybe look to what our partners in other parts of the North have been doing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u27	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you for this discussion, and I'd like to state that I agree with the permanence of the saying. paritaprevir Björn wife, the Leví of Gunnarsson, about the serious situation of the apartment market. I don't think it's possible to describe that we're still on the Titanic deck and the iceberg a few meters away from us. I think it's an excellent approach. A minister took earlier, that the apartment system accepts certain parts of this problem. Plans have to be worked out, and there's a lot better plans to be done than there are now, but then the weights are a little in the future. The problem we face is a complete supply problem. It is an amazing situation that the industrial organization thinks they are compelled to score in the city of Reykjavík to list whatever land options are available. For years, people have spoken of the difficulty in living in the waters of Reykjavík, where there is a little refuge. Then came a statement from the city's representatives that thousands of people are being assigned over thousands of lands. The organization of industry, which is probably the organization that has the best information on these issues, just shrugs, and asks for an explanation, where is the whole area? Of course, this is an unacceptable situation. I think we're going to have to attack the forward problem. The rest must continue to work. But we can't deal with the supply problem at the end of the row, that's for sure. I want to sharpen the people sitting here and the highest. A minister to keep in mind that we need to act properly on the problem we face because it is huge.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u28	Mr. President. The building market in the capital area has long been broken. The provision of houses has not been accompanied by the large population growth that has been here and is also involved in the use of homes to care for tourists. Everyone knows the consequences, the cost of rent and purchase. Based on the future predictions of the need for a new building in the capital area, the urban population of the region is expected to move to the capital area, but in many parts of the country, there is a great shortage of residences, housing shortages, which are developing for cleaning. In many places, new facilities have not been built for decades, and they have been working against the population's work structure and population growth. It is difficult to get financial institutions and contractors to invest in the construction of apartments in the region, and rural communities rarely have financial access to such projects without support. While laws on the general apartments since 2016 have contributed to the construction of tenures for underpayers, most of them are still living in urban areas. I am deeply concerned about negative urban development in the country. If there is no good and safe housing available for e.g. Young people, poor income, and the elderly are being directly and indirectly directed from the area of the country to the capital area, where financial institutions are directed to build up the capital area and to the region's built - up system. An apartment loan fund plays a major role by directing funding for building an apartment building in the region. So I welcome the conclusion from the Board of Congregations to also put the country's population first, which is very important. There is far too large a group of less income in the country that is in sheltering, and an increased supply of social housing is needed. The Treaty contains safe housing regardless of the economy or the residence, and it must be followed by force and capital.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u29	Mr. President. Thank you. A advocate for taking up the urgent matter of housing, surely. I'd like to thank the highest. Minister for his contribution to this discussion as well as to others. The family is the cornerstone of society and the home among them. It's hardly much bigger than the housing business. They've found their way into trouble in our society. It is true that the forward side has been inadequate. It is vital that these be corrected. We're talking there about telecommunications, regulations, building regulations and legal frameworks, and the effectiveness of the rural group. There is nothing more to be seen than to make things right in all these areas. I'd also like to thank you for the love of a report from an apartment loan fund. The report is like an alarm clock or an alarm bell of what we have really found in these materials. In part, the lack of funds has resulted in a lack of opportunities. This has resulted in an increase in the price of an apartment building. We know exactly what kind of thing to do with the buyer's gate. They face the challenge of climbing the 30 - year - long hammer for financing. That is a matter that we need to discuss in detail. What problems we have been exposed to in the material with a sense of art and a senseful system that has no parallels in neighboring countries. [[The president calls.]] But I reiterate my gratitude for the discussion and for encouragement that these matters will be discussed much more in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u30	A respectable president. I would like to thank you for the verbal veneer and the highest. Minister for their part in today's debate. At the same time, I agree that this new budget report is important. The fact is, though, that it does not simply confirm what we already knew, that we have reached a complete failure to handle this matter. As important as a conference discussion is about the matter, there is another fact that we here are not building anything. I am no less talkative of policy and perspective than others, even more. But I also believe that policy, which leads nowhere, is of no value. We have come to the point where we need to start doing something. What I'm trying to think about and understand and would like to use my short time in a public talk is to get a better grasp of what it really is that governments intend to do right now. Then I am not the least speaking in view of the fact that the last government put in its short time forth a special housing contract in cooperation with all the rural communities in the capital area, certainly, in cooperation with four schemes with 14 defined objectives. There are goals that are not evident in the Treaty of a new government, as well as in the absence of such a view. Last December. similar discussions. It was the highest. A minister asked what the government would do, how it would favor itself in the solution to the problem of housing. I think it's time to ask now, "What are you doing? We simply don't have any more time. I'd like to have the question that way. What I'm going to start now before I get kicked out of a talk chair is to agree with it as the highest. A minister mentioned earlier, linking this important review of the order of everything that is burdensome and that is one of the points to be considered, is that this is not just under the Ministry. The minister's here. The question may be, is the highest. A government with any of these activities, studying the cooperation or development of projects so that the minister responsible for the housing procedures can direct these matters, simplify this burdensome rule, and thus put his hands on plows to speed up and down the cost of construction? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u31	Mr. President. The house - to - house problem we are facing is an volunteer problem, above all. I've been looking at this thing a little bit, and we could start by looking at what we could do about it. What is missing is smaller and less expensive. People also want them to be in some sort of rented system where low rent prices are guaranteed, etc. All these things can be done. The North countries have already done this. West Europe has done this. It's quite possible, just a question of political will. Let us look to where the obstacles are. Who would not want the supply of less apartments in a secure tenant environment to be greatly increased, since the cost of living and living is low? Of course, it is the construction contractors. They have no particular interest in this, especially if foreign companies who are able to do this and are doing this in Sweden and the Netherlands meet Icelandic conditions and come into the market. It's not a catalyst for them to be. Enlargement is not an incentive for financial companies. This will stop the increase of guards and may even go down. This lowers the price of their loans or of their goods. It's not for their benefit. They want to sell expensive loans. Of course they do. They want to sell as much expensive loans as they can. There's no benefit there. It appears that this has not been important until finally when local governments see the need for them to stand before their voters in spring. But what can a social minister do about this? I'd like to have numbers from the Department of Social Affairs on the shared structure, the main organization, neighbors, etc. How does it stand here in the big capital area where the demand is the most, the worst problem, where voters call for it most? This is in priority setting, but transport is much higher in the area of the country, with total frustration for housing in the capital area, and in the combined core of Akureyri. [[The president calls.]] How do we face this challenge regarding organizational matters? This could be a social minister. If he's going to do something about it, he needs to know. I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u32	V.E.G. President. First, I want to thank the advocate of this important discussion. An important point, I say, is that dwelling at the United Nations and elsewhere is defined as one of man's basic needs. Three is the basic human needs. To fulfill them, each person must have food, clothing, and shelter, and all communities are obliged to meet these basic needs. As candidates and I are aware of this, housing measures were being made in a very extensive way during the 2013/2016 season. For the most part, a few decades, rapid growth in the construction of a rented house was agreed upon. In addition, laws around housing communities were supported, hired, and introduced measures for the initial purchases. It is important for all subjects to have a selection of farm shapes. Despite such good measures, however, we recognize the need to continue and give more attention. In this context, cooperation between state and rural society is important. I welcome the highest words. Ministers that the establishment of the state's budget will be increased and even more dependent on the system to which we assistants have established. At the same time, I accept the highest word. Ministers on the importance of reducing construction costs and performing operations to promote new housing in the country. Sadly, conditions in the country are even more serious than those in the capital area. The situation in some rural societies is, in fact, that it has not been built for years if not for decades. That's what I like to say. A minister to be researched, such as for the first buyers, and it will be interesting to see what comes out of that work. One thing is probably going to take a lot of action and give me the best. A minister to the admiration of these as well as others.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u33	Mr. President. That's right. That's right. paritaprevir The Þórunn Egilsdóttir's position, along with food and clothing, is among the basic needs of man. Social stability is about it being okay, and it doesn't cause everything to go wrong in case of a slight shock. Social stability is one of the three basics of the North American system as well as the economic stability and stability of the workforce. If the only support is weak, the system will not work. Sadly, we face this challenge. Will we strengthen this system, or will we let it drop? I am disappointed in the first budget of the government. The social benefits need to be greatly improved, but at the same time, after a quarter of a billion dollars are given. In the last government's income plans and marches away. This may cause us to face a higher level of inflation and growth. The most serious result is that the government is out of the same way to carry out its social stability projects. The report in question well highlights the problem, as well as the words of many members of Congress. That's why I'd like to ask. A minister will see if he is willing to work at a considerable amount of work on the sentence of a new budget and agree to a proposal made by the United States to build 5,000 rented apartments, which are not based on profits in all the next semester.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u34	Mr. President. I'd like to thank you for recording this here at the council, discussing these matters that are extremely important. There's a market failure all over the system. In many ways historical. I have often pointed to and discussed how these matters have been in the capital area, examining figures. The number of apartments in Reykjavík increased by 18% but in the collar around Reykjavík, at Seltananesi, in Mosfellstown, Kópavogi, Garrdur, and Hafnarfjordur, about 76%. In many respects, I think this is the root cause of the problem. That says a lot about offering on property and how people have done things. The development has been rapid, based on the development of new areas, and much of this trend has been understood. Then I just want to enter another point. In many parts of the country, in specific areas of growth, the words of Húsavík, West - in the salmon - cannot be built. It is expensive to build, far too much difference between market value and construction costs. I wondered, " How will men put their arms around it? ' I'm interested in getting answers to the highest. A minister of how he sees fit to respond. Then there's another point where there's a very high salary at an apartment loan fund. The apartment loan fund has its loans in the country. There's no way to reimburse money. I think we need to look into these things in some context, how we're going to get these market-based grounds out. I'm also interested in this discussion and I might ask how this market is being divided today, the Icelandic loan market, in apartment loans. On one hand, capital/inland and then back to camp loans and pensions. I'm interested in where men lend. But it's a lot of stuff, and you'll have a short time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u35	A respectable president. Thank you for the discussion that has already taken place here. But there is one group in the discussion that is still unsettled in the garden. That is a great deal of emphasis on the laws referred to earlier in 2016, reminds me, on housing, on solutions that focus on building rented houses for less - afforded people. Hv. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einarsson reminded us of the Commission's proposal for building 5,000 mandible sprays at a suitable price. Reykjavíkurburg has placed a high value on the condensation area from the other side, where most of it is building more expensive apartments. We know that discussion. But it is really the group that is there, ordinary people, middle - class, who are in a troubled situation. The releases of that huge group are primarily turning toward relegating the front gate. These are not people who are going into one of these small, practical rented camps built on social grounds. They are also not the people who are about to buy houses on dense plots, one of the predatory ones, whether at the radio or somewhere else. They're just the normal families that need a roof over their heads. It is far from the country for today's group, as the discussion is and for the solutions being discussed. That's why I want to go to the top. Minister again to put the most energy into the process of overcoming this volunteer problem. Whatever the way, whether it's a partnership with a local community or whatever the way, it's in the first row. It is the normal families who are in so much trouble as are less wealthy. [[The president calls.]] Those who have more with them will resolve these things.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u36	A respectable president. Thank you. For Björn Leví Gunnarsson case on the report and discussing this important subject and the highest. Minister for participating in and attending the discussion. This is once so that housing is one of the basic needs of the people and the safety of a home is of utmost importance to the well - being of the family. In his report, the camp loan fund says that it takes 2,200 apartments per year for the next 22 years, which means less than 50 far away. blister (alu/alu) If we assume that the number of people living in an apartment will be similar to what has been so far, i.e. 1.7 in each apartment, 52 people can be expected to be around 801⁄2,100 you. Someone who should be living there. It will then aim to increase according to this forecast, similar to what it has been missing from 20 years of age, or 1101,3% a year. On the other hand, they are premised for what it is. A senator may have given himself more than an increase of 120. people, but let's let them lie between things. On the other hand, the Substitute Bank is assuming that now 17 of you are needed. apartments to meet the cumulative problem, which is then a facility for your 25 to30s. A man, by definition. The population growth in the capital area over the last few years, however, has been 2.53/43%. I'm pretty sure it's going to go on, but let's leave it between things. This does not change the fact that there is a great deal of accumulated problems, and we need to deal with it in some way. It is important that we place additional funds to the seminary, and it is important that in this matter cooperation between the state and the community should exist. The local community's housing plans are very important, but the problem we face will be solved only in the cooperation of all the parties involved in the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u37	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, and the chief. Minister of well-being for us to take this discussion today. I want to look a little bit in a different direction than I've ever been. Thank you, of course, for a good and useful report. We see thousands of apartments, the need for a high concentration of 20,000 apartments for the next two years. We have law No. 44/2008, which covers housing matters, is the independent institution of the camp loan fund. The sad situation is, if we look at the time that no one has forgotten, the time of collapse called, that the apartment loan fund has sold out 4,000 possessions taken from families after a crash, and most of the stocks have been sold back to their credit - free roommates. I mean, we're supposed to follow the goal that the law says should be about the apartment loans, but in pars. says he is first and last to try to match the status of the people of the land, whatever financial status they have. They're supposed to try to make it easier for people to cover their heads with roofs. That's what an apartment loan fund is for. I'm going to hope to the highest. A welfare minister showed that such a thing can never happen again, that when people were carried out on the street and lost their assets that they had borrowed from the camp loans.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u38	A respectable president. This is an interesting discussion. It is quite clear that one of the factors that has led to this crisis is that there are now quite a number of experts in these matters, in the problem and in the analysis and in the way of action. So I'm just going to go on the same line as I was before, to encourage ministers to act. Although I speak very quickly, there are two things I especially want to mention. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on plans for the sale of state path to rural society to build up, because it mentioned the possibility that we might be looking into third thousand apartments there of this sought-after size, i.e. medium-sized apartments. They're just talking about the capital area. But I suppose, I don't know precisely, that the possibility of opening up in the country also should be possible. It's the other thing I really want to mention, i.e. The problem in the country area, but undeniably, there is a measure of emphasis on the capital area. The number and weight of people in this area is huge. Clearly, though, the problem is not less in the country. Building up areas that are taking over now in the ups and downs of the tourism industry. The cost of building is still high above market prices. We know those matters. That is why I want to ask about something else that I have heard. There is one way that you might be able to help increase the flexibility of renting parts of your apartment building, at least in certain areas, i.e. to reduce the concern and management that people have to take care of - and now again, I attack the rule - because it can help many people, on the other hand, in earning money and in the use of housing. In some cases, people simply live in too large a house and cannot exchange for the housing position. There would be something that could be handled in a relatively simple way and, of course, by the side effect that there is a potential for renting for those who need it. Finally, I thank you for this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u39	A respectable president. There were a few things here that I'm going to do over and over again. Yes, there are no short-term solutions in this, but you can build quite quickly in certain circumstances and with certain types of solutions. The problem now is that the latest data is not being processed. The time it seems to take the local community to take into account the latest data seems far too long. There I think a minister should come in a little bit and push in later. I encourage the government and minister to take an interest in these matters in a financial program as to the role of the government, to watch out for them. I was, for example. with a request for a number of social apartments in all of the rural areas of the country where it occurred by day that they ranged from 0% to 52.4%. There's something you can watch. I was hoping for information from the Minister on his share of the topic in this problem, because of the suggestion of this discussion's state of budget to the jury, which shows the overall report. I hoped for a part of the government in this crisis. Where are we now, and what can we do to reach the cumulative problems facing the public? How we can, for example. increased with regard to stocks, students' social institutions, and apartment loans. It mentioned the ability to buy. The problem is that the price has gone up so high that people don't have enough money to store up for an apartment. The problem is, not that people have the means to buy, but that the money of the apartment has run away. This accumulated problem is simply the difference between an apartment population now, what it was like, and how it's increased. It is not a lack of the power to buy. It causes the increase and the lack of the supply. The effect of the 2013 studies was now spoken of. We have to say, then, that the present situation must be the result of some of it. And very brief about the development of the local community and how we face the problems of having a densely populated area today, where much was previously distributed. [[The president calls.]] We need to find some balance between us.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u40	A respectable president. This has been an interesting discussion. It's hard to find that in two minutes, I'd need, in effect, 20 minutes to answer all the good indications and questions that were addressed to me. I'll start with that as long as possible. The council of Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson and Logi Einar Einarsson came in. They've given a lot of the money they put into this general housing system and the founding process. Government budget estimates that there is a further increase. The person listed here stresss the importance of raising money in this budget. However, I'd like to point out that in 2017 no application was rejected. It's first now -- and that's what I was talking about when it takes so long to come in - in the second distribution of 2017, where there are more applications coming. I've suggested that the first distribution of 2018 and 2017 be united, so we don't have to refuse any applications. True, this is a problem. It's gonna take so long. It's not state power, it's those in the construction market, rural society, etc. It's our job to put pressure on it. Then I just want to come into the country because I can't get much more here. First, the debate after a crash about laying down and shutting it down -- I think in this discussion it reflects the importance of not losing in its own time. We were able to make changes in the apartment loan fund that he could become the institution to become the key agency in implementing government policies at any time. We need to make more adjustments. We've got to come up with analysis, that the camp loan fund can call for more data. That bill's on its way, coming right after an election week. We need to strengthen these housing plans and cooperate with our communities. It's in that bill. I also assume that in that bill, we will have an arrangement for growth reduction that will be especially relevant to the country's population. I have given much emphasis to the country now in the initial years. The camp loan fund has already begun working on it. It is expected that there will be some kind of operation program performed within three months that will be carried out in cooperation with the Subcommittee Fund and the government. But this is an important discussion. She's urgent. [[The president calls.]] I probably would have had to have ten times the length of time to answer anything that was directed to me here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u41	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a variety of market income laws. In 2015, government law on public finance approved by the European Commission adopted better management of government spending, and one of the factors involved is that government projects should not be funded by direct tax pay limits. In line with this, the bill then includes a timely accounting adjustment, in line with the separation of 51st. law on government finance, the transfer of taxes only by government funds. The bill thus suggests changes to 41 law columns and regulations in the taxation markets. Here I refer to the so - called A-A-T-O-R-E-R-E-R-E-T-E-R-E. I refer directly to a provision for a specific work or operation without a special service to be given in return to currency. This does not require services, i.e. budgets set in currency based on actual cost of remuneration. I'd like to assume that the bill is comparable to what was proposed by a greater proportion of the budgetary committees at the 143th legislature Council in 2014, as it were. 588, 306th case. In view of the coming of a bill on public finances, that matter was well recommended at the Assembly Hall. Thus, these discussions on tax markets lasted for some years. Because it is generally maintained in the debate that the threshold reduces efficiency and transparency of funding and may lead to uncertainty about the final budget within a year when budgeting is determined on the basis of income programmes that are not up to date. At the same time, an automatic flow of a certain tax base for the institution or project can result in unwanted spending growth or unwanted recession of funds. The bill thus aims to simplify the budget and the simpler accounts and financial administrations of the institutions. It should be noted immediately that the bill does not include changes in the resources of the institutions and funds below. This change does not lead to greater income or increase in expenses. However, it is in the bill that the decision-making process, to make, on the budget of the budget, will go to the General Assembly every time. Many projects and institutions are working today as a sort of translucency, i.e. Take into account the items set out as a whole for designated projects. Here are the SEC, a public health fund, and an Iceland lab, and this is not expected to be a change. When international commitments or special reasons exist to hold financial resources in hand with certain revenues, it will be easy to put it in comparison with the government's accounting of the tax and financial sources. In other words, the book will offer this entirely, although the market will be canceled, to see which income is derived from certain income stocks. As a body of Congress knows, the principle for making financial decisions to Member States and projects is considered to be terms of spending and on the basis of individual spending goals. In a few of the law columns adopted by the bill, there is no special relationship between the radius of income stocks and change in expenses. I'm here to name the Homing Committee for Realms and Reconnaissance Council. The eye route provides variations in income of the annual reexamination rate, not necessarily in terms of changes in the budget needs of the accountant's council. According to this, the fees the bill does not take into account as secondary income stocks for the state's funds. Therefore, it is my opinion that certain groups that have the law to finance specific projects related to the same groups may need to be considered to be reduced if expenses for the projects are long below the income of the budget, i.e. We need to keep in mind that we do not have special financial institutions for the state that is said to meet a certain requirement of spending and then prove to be far beyond the requirement for spending as it develops over a longer period of time. Then there's nothing normal but to the income stock, i.e. The tax, shall be reviewed and reduced. And vice versa, if it is impossible to finance a particular project, you may need to wonder whether an additional fee is necessary to live up to what was intended to be financed by the tax system. It's an exception, however, I think it's more the other way around. This bill is a major step in increasing efficiency and transparency in the management of the Allegorium; it reduces uncertainty, as I have mentioned earlier, of the final budget within the budget. The change results from a growth of income that results from an automatic charge of state income to lawsuits, amendments and accounts, and the making of accounts will become simpler as well as the financial administrations of the states and the state as a whole, and it can be said that the spending goals will be better achieved. This is not the case with so - called operating incomes, for the sake of remuneration, and as I have only decided that such income will continue to flow to the institutions involved. In short, for analysis of your services and marketed tax returns, you can check whether the currency is expressed in the law. It is often a fixed quarter or some proportion. If so, we can generally assume that the tax is involved. On the other hand, if the currency is determined in a currency, it is usually a service fee that depends on the costs set out in legal services and is paid by those who enjoy the ministry. All markets in the bill are taken, with the following exceptions: Remuneration and administrative support, as well as the laws on environmental pollution measures caused by the single use container for drinking products, which can be said to be more indirect. This is a clean passage in financial terms. Like government funds, such as government laws on public financial separation, the tents are under law taken into account, and income is given unsatisfactory to recycling hf. on the basis of the contract. Calculating Costs, No. 162/2002. At the request of the Environment and Resource Ministry, it was decided to wait for the change in the law. This is a fairly clean transboundary unit in which the budget depends on the estimated income, but the income should be transferred from a government fund in accordance with the separation of the law on public finances. The Environmental and Resource Ministry will be working on a solution in cooperation with processing costs. Remuneration, No. 113/1990. Part of the insurance bill will still be marketd at the non-employment fund, the insurance fund for independent active individuals, and the birth policy fund. These exceptions are the most complex, the most successful person to cover insurance costs, but I think it's right to be able to do them here in particular. Further changes in the insurance bill and parts of it call for further discussions with the labour market partners. However, the payback's balance is only in words, for the funds are, in effect, given in accordance with the financial needs of the individual. When expenses have been higher than marketd income as defined, the state's budget has bridged the gap and when the income has been higher than the cost of spending has been maintained in accounting. We'll continue to work on further development of these joints in cooperation with stakeholders, but we'll put this up on the bill as it currently exists. There are no additional unsatisfactory exceptions for the market of taxes. However, a question has been raised as to whether the expenditure of the high rates per taxation laws should be considered tax returns or sectoral income. The budget is fixed in the law, but the law also allows the distribution of the times by means of an auction method. This is not being addressed in the bill, but in terms of the financial and economic services, income is to be allowed for the distribution of the terms of the remuneration, as there is an income for the use of a common resource, not for sale on products or services of telecommunications. Finally, from the bill, I'd like to say that we've taken a little different ways to sort out different tasks that have so far been done with marketed revenues. I can mention the relationship between the government and professional life of an Iceland lab. It could be said that if the step had been taken here simply to say that all the income of the budget, the market fee, was to run into a state fund, and then it would only be revealed to the budget every time how much funds were spent in Iceland, it would have been in total confusion. It's simply legalized here, as a promise to an Icelandic company, that there is no less money than the market budget has paid. This would be an example. More examples could be taken from the bill. We can take Our Kingdom News as an example, which provides me with a solution to the views that have been raised on the importance of the issue of the Kingdom News being irreverent because of the role it plays. I could do this for a discussion of overcrowded funds, but the income of a fund that has been worth much more than financial resources to produce, which raises the question of whether we have already put too much taxes on property owners in the country over time. These are very thin, yet these are large amounts of money when they accumulate over a long period of time. This may be an example of a tax I was thinking about earlier when I mentioned that if it turns out that the tax is too high compared to the expense demand, we should just board up the sleeve and simply lower the tax. In this case, I don't think it's time for a longer-term implementation program. I've considered the basic opinions of the bill and explained its main points. I hope that I can make peace with it at the council. The matter is closely linked with the laws on public finances that assume that we are taking this step. We offer all help to provide more information on the individual needs of the bill as needed in the council and on the committee's work. I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. by the end of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u42	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the speech on this bill. There is certainly reason for that bill to come up, but of course we have to go over it here at the council. It's complicated, it's about many laws and many institutions. I feel that way, like a lot of people do. Councilmen, that it is not wise to make money depends on how institutions develop in Iceland; that they contract their activities when making income contract and then grow the spine - growing fish when they grow up. It does not make much sense, nor does the government law hold that this is not how the country develops. Another problem is the job market rights. When we were on the current budget board, there were reviews about the bill that was then under discussion, about markets, including comments from the United States Common Association, a little stronger. This bill takes into account their comments in part. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Why were they not all taken into account, what are the reasons why the amount of currency paid by pension funds and the cost of remuneration are taken out of parentheses, that there will be no limitation, if the bill is accepted? And so I ask about the elderly's therapy fund. ASI made strong and firm comments on these matters. I want to ask you why. Minister: What are the reasons why they should not be taken into account?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u43	A respectable president. It is this way with some parts of the insurance bill that they work almost entirely in agreement with the labour market partners and, in fact, that the workforce was met by the workforce of market-related projects. It is only different with this equation of disability. This transition is not being made to any change in the affairs of the State. It simply means that the State has agreed to take on a role and is to a degree different from the other ones on which there has been a solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u44	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. He did not mention the elderly's contribution fund but is not taken into account the ASVI comment given in this fund. The report reviews comments that have shown in the reviews of the previous bill discussed on the budget board. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers, whether or not there has been a special consultation with the labour market partners on the rights of the labour market and these comments which are most clear in this regard from the European Union. Did this bill have a special discussion in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u45	A respectable president. I have not personally participated in this discussion, but according to my information, comments came to mind that have come from the labour market partners, and I don't know better than the output that has been put together in this bill has been introduced to the labour market partners. Even so, this discussion, according to my best information, has been made available by the Ministry. Regarding the elderly'fund, we have a little sad story of how we have felt compelled to take on the funds that especially were earmarked and used for management in recent years. In this regard, it is not in itself laying any lines on the future, but it is only to say that the funds will be determined by the council; it could therefore be higher than paid from the tax that flows into the elderly until now.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u46	Mr. President. I might have answered a minister, but I decided to give a quick talk. I may not have been a special speaker of this bill when it appeared at the time and was being discussed on a budget board. It's interesting this time it goes to the Economic and Business Committee. It's a matter of who holds the case every time it goes. But I like a lot of things on this bill. Late. We've been discussing at the council of the Left Green that there's one thing and another that we believe can be considered successful. I'd like to first mention your Vega, but her negative personal interest status has been very busy at the council. This time, all the payments are due from vehicles, fuel and the like, but the road is located with billions of dollars in its balance sheet. Must be, for example. Did It Begin? Also, ask: What, then, is the standard? We have an underdeveloped transport plan, for this income has not slipped, we all know the discussion, to the Vega program, but, in part, into a public fund despite being marketed, which is, of course, an example of the lack of efficacy of the threshold. But what do we aim for? It says that the budgets of Vega were made out of rhythm at the market of income for the seminary. But it's not addressed. I ask the committee to wonder, " Which is the original point, how are we going to make it develop? ' Will we allow it to develop only by the means of the transport program approved by the Parliament? We haven't. We have an approved transport program that we have not financed. It is legal that this should be so, although we have not done it in this way. Then I'd like to reflect on the price of being paid by the elderly. Now it is a nasal tax that strikes even the entire population, paying taxes. I wondered if we can have a nasal tax if there's really no one who will take it directly. Necessary taxes are essentially unfair. He's evenly touching everyone, no matter where they stand in the income groups. I think it's thought - provoking, from the moment he's been abused in business, not in building up, as discussed earlier. This is one of the things I'm going to go to the committee and ask her to consider. First, the highest. A minister mentioned an upper treasure, and that we might put too much taxes on the people of the land in view of financial resources, I'd like to say, of course, that's the basic thing about the case, of course. We can speed things up. I feel like we're doing something like that. has taken our advice from the East that we have not increased the funds to complete what was left there and all the tools and tools in the area. It is expensive to start over all the time rather than continue. If you're thinking of some kind of tax reduction in this context, I'd rather see that project would be rushed, subsidies increased, because this soil work is usually in the scattered areas that should not be blown up all through thawing. This is something we've been discussing in our council, along with other things. Actually, I haven't seen a schedule for the next five years. But I think it's something that needs to be considered before the funds are reduced. Then, too, I would like to ask the committee to check on the surface that they have discussed only a contribution or a so - called donation to a local partner that has been granted through these projects. It has been in the form of loans that have so always been strong because they have not been reimbursed by their rural communities. I understand that this should be reimbursed, so to speak, as a minister noted, in a treasure. Then, on top of the ocean, there's nothing, only zero in the beginning if this bill becomes law. This is one of the things I would like the committee to investigate. I don't really think this is how it's done. These were the biggest things. I trust that what is said here on The State Radio, there is also a nose tax, that is an ohf. firm, and the arrangement in a way that is different from the elderly, that this expression will be as the minister said to keep the Government's contribution relative to what is currently expected. But these are just the first thoughts that slipped through after rolling through this. No doubt there is much more to consider. As noted earlier, there are many legal columns.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u47	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I'd like to lower her right to talk about the problems she has faced us on the market. Of course, this is just a part of something bigger, which is a government law. In fact, I want to get used to calling them the new laws on public finances, since they have been in effect for some time. Hv. A senator drew e.g. there's a problem with funding to build roads. I feel very important, though it may be like shoveling sand, taking the talk I'm about to take here. The reality is that we have contributed more money to road construction than we have laid down our income. But in many of the general discussions, it is said that we owe billions of dollars. And most important, the purpose of this talk is to produce volleyball from the bad politicians who robbed the roads from the transport system, thus drawing out that the Council has decided to make more money in recent years than the budgeted income. Then you also wonder, " What really has become the focus of market income? ' Like what? A senator mentioned in his talk. I think it's important that we draw this out in our discussion, sometimes in an effort to correct this course. I suppose now, according to the latest numbers I've seen, it's negative to the own money of the Roadmaker by 19 billion dollars. which tells us that we have given Aldus funds and approved by the Generals each time 19 billion more for road construction than the other covered income. This is what I wanted to draw out.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u48	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. In fact, it is often in the form of a government at any given time that determines something outside of the standard procedure, i.e. We have a transport program that we need to fund, not to be taking any form of Spanish, forgive, and unfortunately have been made. I think we all agree that improvements need to be more and better than they are. But that's right, and the point is maybe to make it known that this minus is available. No matter what we may feel about a road program, we cannot deny that it is not financial. Hence, we need to find a position in the beginning, what is a natural contribution each year to the road work. Of course, it can be different at any given time, I'm not gonna say it, but we've got an unfunded wood. We all agree on that. That'll take more than that. More for a very long time, I think. That's why I'm putting it out. I also want to know how we're going to treat the billions who are tied to negative personal funds, as they say. We've received no answers as to whether it's just going to be overwritten or whether it's going to be subsidized from financial contributions, i.e. they'll be diminished against you, will they? We expect a trip program in the fall. Then, of course, it comes out, and it's supposed to go with a national budget plan, so I hope we get some context. But I think it's important to know with the beginning, what it should look like.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u49	Mr. President. We're gonna go for a second. A senator does not argue about the need for improved road transport or transport projects, and we can say, as it were, about most of the issues and topic areas, that there is a great need. But what I wanted to draw out in this short answer was simply saying, "We've spent the money marked. " The purpose of the bill is, we can say, to promote the government's government. Then we may end this dispute that we are in right now and can just take up the political discussion about how much money we are supposed to spend on the transport project. It has been suggested in the discussion I quoted to earlier that this is a income of some 70,480 billion, and that is only part of a road account. The government with the changes discussed here is stronger. This enables us to shape our policies more fully from pure politics and clean emphasis each time instead of binding ourselves in this regard on market income. But there are plus and minus, of course, to this case. I agree with many of the viewpoints here on the pros and cons of doing this in this way. These changes have been considered, in some way, that we should look to the money previously available to determine where we are taking steps at any given time. But I think that with another conversation or other practice we're developing, we'll soon get out of that kind of discussion and take it more out of the direction and goals each time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u50	Mr. President. I agree that there may be a passage in the bill that it's actually going to be a bit of a market. In view of this and that, the amount of money that you have been given is spoken of as being the same as the amount of money should go forward to the lawsuits. It's a lot of like that. In itself, a limitation such a thing may be said to be in many respects, although in other ways it is. But it's built, like a whale. A senator, however, said at Generalis's decision. I agree that the budget should be more than that, because of the premise that this amount goes to this category and one to the other. But at the same time, as a body of Congress, we can try to change and affect it to some extent based on the way the bill is spoken, not in all respects compared with what is being said here. I agree that it's important that you check this out and get into it, every team I think. As presented earlier in speech and answers, there are issues of opinion. I think I'll be able to keep a close eye on the discussion and see in the reviews each through the wind.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u51	Mr. President. It's just a matter of time. A senator discussed market incomes many times during the night. It's a budget in recent years. But I heard it. A senator is speaking against the spirit of this bill and being quite critical of what is in it. So I'd like to ask you why. Senator: Was this bill taken in advance from a council class of greens, or was it approved there?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u52	Mr. President. The bill was not taken on notice, but people have differing views about it and feel that several factors, as mentioned, need to be examined before they fully accept words as they are. But there was no opposition, if any. A senator is fishing for it. I have been very critical, as noted here, of taking away my income despite the fact that it is under government law. Like what? paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson came in, he no longer talks about new songs, but I do it because it's still part of them. It's like a snooze. A senator knows, assumed that this bill will follow. But it's worth being critical. It's a big deal. I think, as I mentioned in my speech, we need to take a close look. I'd like to get a clearer line on the road structure, the elderly's product fund, and the surface fund. These are the biggest issues I'd like to see clearer lines on how it's being handled.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u53	Mr. President. Of course, I agree with that. A senator that it is important to examine the bill carefully. But what I was wondering was the direction of the highest. Governments. Hv. A senator supports the government and the Supreme Court. The secretary of finance puts up the bill and will likely emphasize its success. That's just what I wanted to draw here. Sounds like it. A senator that both the spirit of the law on public financial matters and the spirit of these laws do not please her. Then I think, Mr. President, the highest. A government in a number of problems, since these are now major prime products under economic stability.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u54	Mr. President. Just so you know, I've actually been working by government law. Hv. A senator knows my argument about that bill at the time. The focus of the new government is, as we know, only changed in this matter. I'm not against this market business bill, I think there's a lot of good things going on. But there are these things I think we need to examine. I don't think anyone needs to worry about me about this government partnership or economic stability, about these two bills, but I'm critical and I think it's a good thing. We are to be critical, whether we are in the government or outside.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u55	Mr. President. Without extending my discussion, I feel appropriate to come up and describe my concerns about the elderly's fund. The role of the fund is, as stated in Regulation, very important. It is to be built up on a number of aspects of the welfare system that particularly focus on the cooking of people, i.e. daily training, nurses, residents, repairs of housing, etc. Last year, it is considered to me that the nervosa was to be returned to the fund in the income range of between 2.5 and 33.3 billion. That is correct. Secretary of finance earlier that we were only lost after the collapse in the way we employed the funds, a large part of the fund's income at the time went to business, and was confined to business for several years, i.e. A business nurse. It was not difficult to blame for the time when applications into the fund to form the year 2009◯2013 for the work of nursing and nursing homes were usually not very numerous. Despite the financial resources that went to the business, the funds given at that time worked well for them. However, there are times later, and it can be assumed that during the next few years, there will be a significant need for repair in nurses, perhaps not as expected by most predictions, but still a considerable need, and in many other areas, there is a need for housing and so much more complex problems. That's why I'm worried about it. It takes at least to ensure that in some way the adjustment will ensure that funding for this very important project will continue to be ensured. In this regard, it is natural to rejoice. A minister said earlier, that it might as well be that there's more money there than it's ever done so far. I hope it is, but still, I suppose it's a case that I'll bring up within a second. Economic and business committees, and at the end of the issue, no doubt continue to be held in the Congress Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u56	A respectable president. At the end of the discussion, I would like to state that this is quite a complicated matter. We have reached the end of a series of dozens of laws that have been fixed for a long time. What a fundamental change it is to take the step of stating the boundaries of the past! However, it is quite correct what has been observed here, and it was also quite ready for some individual releases, and I took a little note of it in my case, and that's logical. But I hope, as I have said before, that a good deal of solidarity can be achieved. I'll bet they ask themselves, " Am I referring to the right committee? ' It was the thought of saying the matter for the economic and tax committees that earning money is essentially a tax issue. In turn, the law on public finances and the bill that we have briefly discussed on the exact same subject was coming from a financial committee. I'm going to finish my case by saying that I think it will go well with the council to refer matters to the court of the committee. But I've said that the matter is a tax matter because of the experience that the budget has of the government's handling of public financial matters and of the many opinions involved in this matter, it can be said that the matter would be rather at home.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u57	A respectable president. I understand, for example, the dilemma in which a respectable president is in, and it is far from me to guide him. I'm not the greatest expert in this hall at the time of Congress, but if I had just noticed, the secretary of finance did not suggest that the case go to a financial committee, which is, in fact, to me, as the head of an economic and business committee without any cause, but he left it in the hands of the council. V.E.G. At least the president should have at least one. to allow the council to decide on that decision. I made a note before the next issue was started.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u58	Mr. President. I hadn't asked for the word under this team, but I'd love to, if I get it, say a few words. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I understood the best. A minister might argue that the bill would refer to the budget committee, but the conclusion would be that the bill would go to the Economic and Business Committee. I'd like to have a little time to think about whether this business is a matter of income, certainly that under expenses, but for the market income, would not be more of a home to the Economic and Business Committee. Yes, part of the budget committee has been going through a discussion on this subject, and it may be wise to expand the perspective taken on this subject, which would be even another part of the Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u59	Since one senator mentioned that he had called after before a discussion about the matter ended, the president must consider it to be correct and overlooked, which is why. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kálmson, whose comment is that the matter is being made on the budget committee, I suppose, that's what the senator wants to withdraw. Even if he would pull it back, he would have what to do. Harðardóttir It would cost us a day to vote on it unless there are enough people in the house to vote for it and then we can vote on it today and the case will go to the committee that will vote for it. Let us do all of this objectively and correctly, which means that there must be a vote for which the committee is going. Hv. paritaprevir For example, Oddný G. Harðardóttir made a note that the matter was going to the budget and the senator would like the matter to go - where?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u60	The Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u61	The Economic and Business Committee. This calls for votes, so we try to communicate afterwards before the matter can go to that committee. One senator will come to a meeting board on this most exciting subject, and there is no one but a reason. þm. The parts. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] - I'm sorry, I thought I was saying a joke, but obviously I'm not.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u62	A respectable president. Jellicles are fine and have their places and their hours. I'm not necessarily saying the President's chair is the place. I don't necessarily come here to discuss this case, I think it's the best. The president has decided very wisely on that matter, but the case is the highest. The president was about to introduce. We are discussing a proposal for a resolution of government policy on the building of electricity transport systems, and the entire body of members in the hall is now being announced. 1330 to vote. I wondered if these ten minutes, if they're going to have a lunch break for votes, they'd break up a little bit, and I'm just asking for it at the top. A president to retire now so that all the discussion will be together and plenty of time for her.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u63	Yeah, it's according to the plays because there's 10 minutes left. These talks can take 15 minutes, and we can't cut it apart. This meeting is postponed until 0100 hours. One-thirty-thirty-thirty.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u64	Borist has received a letter from the social and equal minister requesting every time to give a written answer to a covering query. 58, of the pocket money removal system in nursing homes, from Óli Björn Kárason.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u65	The President has received a letter from Birgitta Jónsdóttir that she tells of committee work as a result of the age of independence and the nationalitarian state of Iceland. At the same time, a letter has been received to the president of Sæmundsson, who would like to be released from the same committee as a representative of the Agency, since he is no longer a member of that party. Then the president would like to state that two new classes represent the council after the last election, the Central Party and the Party of the People, and two new representatives of them will be elected into the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u66	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a resolution of government policy on the building of electrical energy systems on panels. 253. The proposal is presented at the General Assembly for the first time in accordance with regulations 39th par. An electronic law claiming that a minister should be submitted every four years to the General Council for a resolution of the above policy. The ensuing law entered the electronic law with a modification law of no. 26/2015, with a new proposal from a greater part of the workaholics. In a committee program with this adjustment proposal, it is considered that the creation of the Generals to develop a system design for the development of electricity transport systems. It points out that this is an important national program and that it is reasonable to arrange for democratic elected representatives to establish a system plan in some way. It is stated that the Council can provide specific principles and guidelines that should be taken into account at any given time in a system plan. The proposal I recommend here is partly based on the previous Senate resolution adopted at the General Assembly in the spring of 2015, No. 11/144, the government's policy on the fixation of electrical lines. However, in accordance with the terms of the electricity layer, this synonym has a considerably more broad range of values and includes the general emphasis on the development of electricity transport systems and long-term development of such structure. Core that the proposal was made by the Department of Employment and Development of the previous half of 2017 and was put in a general reporting process on the Department's website. summer. The following statements have been reviewed and taken into account. At the same time, the Scriptures have been updated, in harmony with the priorities of the government's administration covenant, which includes those: until electricity transport and distribution systems must better meet the needs of industry and the public throughout the country and have to be more confident of the transport and distribution systems of electricity in the country, link key areas more closely and ensure the delivery of electrical energy across the country. The Treaty contains improvements in this area, including those in the Member States. related to energy exchange programmes, build-in structures for electrical vehicles, electricalisation rejects, and electrical recovery. Similarly, in the Treaty, it is stated that no lines will be attacked over the highlands and that the practical use of an earthline will be considered to a large extent. Are all these emphasis from the government covenants reflected and further developed in the Senate arrangement. V.E.G. President. The suggestion is, in effect, triphasic, and is the main subject in three chapters. The first part focuses on factors that are generally subject to the transport systems of electricity and how it should be developed for a longer period of time. They present emphasis on 15 figures, which the Council concluded should be the basis for the development of electricity transport systems. There are some important novels, and I think it's a good idea to distinguish them in short terms. The 1st is clearly defined as the national importance of electricity transport, and it is confirmed as part of society's infrastructure. In the same way as with other shallows, such as Thus, for transport and communications, the transport system is one of the important reasons for the wide range of employment development and positive development development. The 2nd figure refers to what is stated in the government covenant that electricity transport must meet better the needs of industry and the public throughout the country. At the same time, the emphasis is referred to the national goals presented in Article 1. Electrical layer. It is important that the transport systems of electricity be able to meet these targets at any given time in order to be sufficient. In many places there is a need for improvement, as the examples show. The 3rd and 4th counts also refer to what is stated in the Treaty of Governments on the transport systems of electricity and delivery security. One of the most important and important solutions in the area of energy is to better rely on electricity transport systems in the country, better connect key areas, thus ensuring the delivery of electricity across the country. At the same time, there is a general agreement to protect the value of noncontaminated areas in Iceland's highlands and to minimise the environmental impacts of projects where possible. Technical exports to achieve targets of improved delivery security and key areas must always be taken into account. To this end, the fourth emphasis on the synonym is referred to to to the practical application of the landline to the extent to which it can be applied. Similarly, it is determined that the highland line will not be attacked. The second part of the synopsis proposal is further explained, and I will report it in the future. The Treaty, however, states that a key area needs to be connected more fully. I only want to enter that project to turn, including... the transport capacity between geographical areas. By reforming this area, the transport system is more capable of controlling national energy transport and providing national energy users without a repeated limit of transport or impairment, as we have seen in recent years. Similarly, increased transport capacity between geographical areas is one prerequisite for the transport system to be able to carry out increased overall needs of electricity, including for energy exchange programmes, and provided conditions for the economic use of environmentally-friendly electricity. It may therefore be noted that the current transport restrictions for the competitive status of national renewable energy to non-environmental energy sources, e.g. In the business of a fishing factory. Better connections and increased transport capacity between areas also involve the ability of the transport system to perform its role in the case of major natural disasters. In fact, they are matters of special concern, which may require special discussion, and we may not have had enough discussions. It is my opinion that procedures in the transport system to further connect key areas need to be in line with need of analysis, and today they need to be put in first place where the need is greatest. In particular, these include Eyjafjörður, as an example, as well as the problems we face with energy on the West. In the long run, it is desirable to set the target for a specific transport capacity between land areas and to believe that the factors will be discussed more closely in the shape of the long-term energy policy laid down in the government covenant. The 5th panel of the Convention concluded that economic, social, and environmental effects in the construction of electricity transport systems should be balanced. Is there a key to all long-term policy development in energy and resource sectors, as agreed. ... ina special discussion at the Council earlier this week on the development of long-term energy policy. The 6th paragraph refers to the importance of structured and transparent design within the framework of a system plan and also ensures access of stakeholders to that level. Once the steps have been taken, and it is vital that we continue in that course. In the 7th sector, special attention is given to those areas in Iceland who are affected by reduced electrical security. Examples of such areas are Western and northern. One of the aims of electricity law is to promote and build up jobs in the country and to achieve that goal requires electricity transport systems to ensure adequate electrical safety at national level. Thus, in the government's policy on the building of electricity transport systems, it must be taken into account that there will be equal opportunities between land areas when it comes to the delivery of security. In the 8th sector, the transport and distribution systems of electrical energy are thought to cohesively cohesive in an effort to improve energy exchange in Iceland. The transport system must be able to support existing energy exchange programmes aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions, e.g. by speeding up electricity compression, by heat pumpisation in cold areas, by electrical infrastructure, and by electricalization rejection. The 9th sheet suggests that in the case of transport procedures involving more than one member of the organisation, decisions regarding the individual geostring phases should be made when appropriate based on the overall assessment of the fraction of the transport system where the length of the earth-string section depends on the limit and on the individual. Is here an important point to discuss, including... Organization has pointed out. Emphasis at the Parliament's resolution proposals are removed from current Congress resolutions from 2015 on government policies on fixing electrical lines. They were presented there as general views that have been guided by the development of electrical transport systems and are referred more closely to what it says. The second part of the proposal suggests that specialised persons will be directed to carry out independent and independent studies of the effects of different technical solutions in fixing electrical lines. In addition, an independent analysis of the national economic efficiency of increasing the share of electricity transport systems will be put into place in view of the impact on electricity prices, deliverability, efficiency and development, technological solutions and environmental costs. Reports on these materials are suggested to be submitted to the General Assembly for February 1 next year, i.e. 2019. Again, technology is a scar in this area, and it is important to rely on the latest and best information from independent experts on government policy decisions. This is especially true in terms of earth cables and ceiling lines. Various reports and research have already been done in recent years, comparing air lines with earth cables, but the level of independence and independence has been debated. For this reason it is important that such governmental diagnostic work be offered to specialized persons who are entirely independent and independent. Such work will thus be designed to provide a professional basis for further policy development in the coming years. In the third part of the Parliament's resolution proposal, the resolution is then proposed, following the tests and analyses mentioned above, to be reviewed at the spring council of 2019. The revised proposal will allow for longer term correction criteria and guidelines, including emphasising the practical use of earthline in the transport system. Until the end of this review, the guidelines and principles on the fixation of an electrical line should be met by Congress resolution No. 11/144, starting in 2015, about government policy on the fixation of electrical lines. V.E.G. President. This is where I've traced the general content of this proposal for Congress. Since this is a big, important subject, I believe it is important that the proposal be given a good discussion at the General and the General Committees. The transport of electrical energy and the safe delivery of electricity to homes and national living is still an essential part of society's infrastructure and not requiring multiple comments. It is now important to strengthen the transport systems of electricity over the years to solve increasing restrictions in the transport system and to reduce the overall growth in domestic and corporate electricity use. At the same time, we also want to manage the natural world and minimize negative environmental impacts that are inevitable in the transport system. Thus, the government's policy on the construction of electricity systems is always about the balance of certain fundamental factors and reasonable approach. The aim of electronic gaming is to promote the national efficiency of electronic energy systems, thus promoting the economy and inhabited by the country. Nationalally acceptable electrical systems have a 1 st. The law even looked to economic, social, and environmental factors. It is important that we try to achieve as much peace as possible with this group of subjects and put forward a clear policy by which people can work. It is then called, and a responsible answer must be made by the General. It should be noted that here, in this resolution proposal, there is not just a general word on paper but a system plan to follow the existing government policy on the structure of the transport system, as shown in this synonym. So the interpretation that such a person has a legal position. V.E.G. President. I suggest that the synopsis proposal will be followed by a previous discussion referred to the question. Employment committees, as well as the review of environmental and transport committees.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u67	Mr. President. I just wanted to ask you a little bit at dot 4, which is one of the focus points in Part A. It simply says that there will not be an attack on the highlands. Infernally, the 2017/026 system was drawn up by two options to strengthen the main transport system. There was one so - called a highland route, one that is likely to be cutting off the table there and the so - called settlement route. So I'd like to ask the highest. Whether this means the method of construction is chosen, whether it is a highland route just off the board, whether it is a ground cord or a ceiling line, or whether the government can predict a third way that has not been considered. I'll do it in my previous answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u68	Mr. President. What this people have to say, that there shall not be a rule against the highlands, there shall be words out of the covenant of the government. To my view, this is merely a midair line and a series of visual pollutions that come with it. As we know, advances in technology have taken place in recent years in the field of earthlines. In my mind, there is reason to further investigate the range of earthline solutions according to Icelandic conditions. What will be involved in any year, whether in technical solutions or costs, time will be revealed. I don't think that if it's approved, it means that we don't go in any way, ever, across the high ground, despite taking out an airline idea and making a decision to go the other way. But I also find it important to mention that I feel that we are spending too much time and energy discussing which way to go there because we have a huge project in front of us. If we can get them to work properly, we will be able to achieve significant results in the development of electricity systems in the next year without looking to these routes. Of course, we're always talking about a circle, but connecting a key area. If you look, for example. ... intheNortherland, we'll be very busy finishing that job in the next few years. In the meantime, all kinds of things are going to happen in technology. There may be some point of view as to what is to be done best. I have also heard the opinion of those who are the most environmentalist that they do not want ground strings in the earth because they can also mean much noise on land. First of all, you are referring to a high - pressure air line. But as I say, there are other tasks that are much more important in the coming years, and I think we should focus on them even more.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u69	President. I welcome the highest words. A minister to emphasize the importance of solving the problems in Eyjafjörður and the Westfjords because they are extremely urgent. V.E.G. In opposition to the fact that earth cables also cause great noise, a minister came in. It may also be possible for some of the construction route to cross the highlands and to cover some of the reservations. Thus, the development of this process is not necessarily simpler. So there is much to think about. But I'm glad again that I'm not going to stress the completion of the building of the Eyjafjörður and West.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u70	Mr. President. Just a moment. I agree with what. Senator. These are the assignments ahead. Going the other way is not as if it were a simple matter. There's some major interests underneath there. I can't see that it's going to go through without a problem. Besides, costs need to be paid. But the challenges we now face make me feel that we should focus on them. This is probably the case, but in the meantime there will be a number of developments in technology and other things that I think will eventually affect the decision to make in these areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u71	Mr. President. Now it's just the best motion I've ever seen in my quick review and the speech of the Supreme Court. Minister to judge. However, I wondered about the arrangement for this development because the sheer lack of structure in such systems has now been discussed, and there is a great growing need for maintenance in addition to the provision of the European Union of industry, some 70 billion in a recent report. Yet, this plan or policy has really limited direct impact on what people on this market will then do, in which, of course, people like Richard and the Landsnet are fundamentally people who are involved in this real structure. They do not really submit directly to our government, which is at the council, not to the government, nor to the government government as such, but to their inner course and the like. I wondered, in what way to make sure that all of this is being accomplished. Because there are obviously things that are much better involved in making money for these enterprises. The project will be expected to be on top, but something else in this policy may be something of great national importance, but it is not necessarily important for these designated enterprises and even other companies on this market. So I ask the highest. Minister: Is it possible to form some kind of tenant policy on the part of the State that will bring this about? Or how will it be certain that these good ideas actually come about?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u72	Mr. President. This is a valid view. There's a senator coming in. If only with regard to the tenure policy, Landsnet is owned by Raiks and such companies, the government would put a direct tenant policy on that enterprise. On the other hand, whether it is Landsnet or the Landsnet business, or whatever it is, we can revise the holdings, that is, in fact, a completely different discussion. How this document will affect work e.g. The strategy then is that this document has a fixed position to the law, and those working on a system plan, they should look to this, but, of course, it's all very framed in, and it's not as if they've got totally free hands in action and their speed and investment, yet, they should look to these things and to me it's a big change from what's been. Of course, it was discussed whether the Council should directly agree with a strategy at its time, and the conclusion was that this would be incompatible with the earlier regulations of the directive, that a system program such as this would depend on the approval of the General Assembly, as well as the General Assembly is a non-employment agent with an electronic market in the sense of law and it would not be possible for the council to address and agree on the transport system. I'm sure the system plans and decisions of these people will be coloured by it, because they must do so, as the General agrees in this proposal. Of course, it's not like a transport plan, there's a difference, there's no timing of plans and priorities, saying what order to do it and how much to put into it. This is different, of course. But I still think this is going to have an effect.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u73	Mr. President. This is a little interesting. Of course, they are required to comply with what is said in a system plan, good and proper with it, but there is still a bit of space and there is not much choice for follow-up on the part of the government, except within the limits of what is in the system plan and in this case. However, the present system may raise questions as to whether money could not be taken into some sort of system where money is directly developed in areas where there is a greater need and that it is simply a decision to set aside money for those companies who would be earmarked to these tasks, which would be reflected in financial planning and the next budget in the autumn. Otherwise, I don't really see how we can make sure that things are done in the best way and fast enough for us to be happy about it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u74	In the 9th. The electronic laws say, with the permission of a president: The transport system should be properly built in the Member States, taking into account the safety, efficiency, reliable delivery, the quality of electricity and the government's policy on the building of electricity transport systems. Then we have an arrangement that allows for this to be a competitive race. We have arranged this way so that we are not really able to work out this transport program by spitting in a certain amount of money and telling them to do something about it. I'm just saying again that I hope this is going to be a deal, and I think it's very important for the General to finish this job and show that it can handle such a bigger case, which I know will be very much discussed about how to look, and will be treated for Congress. It will then return to the decision-making and investments of their companies within the framework they work on.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u75	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for this ambitious council-sense proposal. Certainly, if our country's optimism and smiles are leveled to all of us and allows us to make common use of it. It's a big project. But this morning, we were introduced to a good guest on a work board that is the experts in this field who came from the Ministry. Minister. There I go about something, the nature of the matter according to the law, that the concept of the earth is taken out of the concept of the electricity system. In fact, we have seen that the principle is to try to put in the earth where there is any possibility; otherwise, it should be an exception, if necessary. I think it matters if you take out that security device. I feel that we should continue to have the term "Uzekiel" in the law because there may be other decisions and other factors when it comes to deciding where to park the line. We know of a case that's been held, e.g. Here on the southwest corner where landowners insisted that the electric line be buried because they refused to have a line of air. I say it might be more likely to cause more hairpieces, and especially that there might be certain concerns. Since the principle is to refer to the earth, I find it totally unfounded to take the term from the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u76	Mr. President. In this synonym, there are no changes in the shape of the ground. On the contrary, it is suggested that independent and independent studies of whether more is possible to be placed in the ground than we do today. So I'm not planning on doing any change in the shape of the ground. But it may be that we do more, making it smaller in the air.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u77	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. That is not the answer to the question. The fact is that the term "earth " comes from the law. That's why I ask, "Why do you want to do that? " In order to create some uncertainty when it comes to making decisions about how to put our electrical lines, our bodies on the ground, or above the earth. So I ask, "Why shouldn't it be inside if it's the principle and it's clearly stated in the Senate decree to lay on the ground whenever possible? "
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u78	Mr. President. I don't know if I've misunderstood. A senator. I'll get her in the side room for a closer conversation. There's no legal adjustment here, but there's the emphasis I mentioned. In case of a moment. A senator is referring to some bill, since this is suggested, I might not be a good listener. However, there is no legal adjustment here, nor is it being taken out of law regarding what should be left in the ground.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u79	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for bringing up this case. I think it's good we have this policy and we'll talk about it. In March of last year, I had a language place at the top. At that time, a minister of the same office asked about the current course. There are many very good points in the suggestion. I'm going to let me go over what I'm particularly happy with and then come on only other things that I feel could be done better, which I feel must be examined by the process or treatment and so general reflection on things. I'm gonna talk about energy policy. I'll let people know what I'm gonna talk about so that they can run out of the hall if they're not interested. I've talked about energy policy a lot. My goal is for future historians who write about the council of those years to see that I spoke almost exclusively of energy policy. I'm about to make it my goal. In the first few points of the proposal, which are practically assembled and divided to us, which makes it convenient to look through, there are many things that are very good and essential to being part of government policy in the building of electrical systems. In particular, I welcome the 1st point that the transport system is defined as part of society's infrastructure, in a manner comparable to telecommunications, and then continued to contribute to the national target of electricity law. A minister came to the point of giving more confidence in the transport system. It is extremely important to better connect key areas and to ensure the delivery of electricity across the country. Then we will discuss how much we can use a good ground cord. It is similar to sustainable development at 5th point, which is enjoyable, that balance should be maintained between economic, social, and environmental impacts on the structure. Then we have a connection with some other course, although that's what I miss a little bit of the proposal. Point 8 says, with permission of the president: It should be determined that the transport system meets the needs for transport growth and intensive transport, including with regard to the infrastructure of electric cars, the use of electrical energy in ports, and electrical energy for the fishing industry. There's a lot of good here. What I would have wanted to see in general in the proposal and in the case of a minister is the energy policy in which the government, in cooperation with everyone, is expected. By permission of the President, I am going to quote the Constitution. It says: A long-term energy policy will be set in the terms of the season in agreement with all members of Congress. In a energy policy, it will be based on the estimated long-term demand for energy relative to government policy, to form a energy exchange, and how to ensure electrical energy supply for the public and industry. Then comes what was only discussed in the previous answers: The energy policy will be taken into account by the European Environment Agency. I wondered, " What order is it best to do things? ' Is it best now to set government policy on the building of the electrical transport system, which will be one of the many approved policies that will be taken into work on energy policy? They're uterus. We've come in many of them. The government covenant speaks of a change of energy, and it is introduced in the motion. There are other committees and other committees. It's the work of energy policy that should come to a slightly cleaner level where it should be at home. I'm not demanding that things be one way or another. I wonder what order is best to do this. I think it is important that when working at the formative of long-term energy policy, which I believe is important to be done as soon as possible, especially in view of the fact that Land activation policy will take it into account, it will take it into consideration, take it in a wide range of ways in which all matters are concerned; energy needs, efficiency, the building, transport. And then we agreed on environmental and climate goals and commitments. In the suggestion, there are certain things I'm going to do a little bit. It is good to have research and an independent analysis of the national benefits of increasing the proportion of electricity transport systems to the ground. It says that these tests should be completed no later than February 1, 2019. Then the course will be reviewed at the spring convention of 2019. That's good. We're investigating. Still, we need to consider the time master in this, that it will get everything but will not immediately be the time for the investigation to be carried out. We need to keep up - to - date so as to gain it, and we can make it a material revision at the next spring meeting. It also speaks of comparison. In chapter 1.3 of page 9, a comparison between earth cables and air lines is presented. It says, with the permission of the president: ◯ When comparing costs, the current cost of stock should be considered. I don't think it's the right way. I don't think there's anything to tell you that foundation costs at an earth cord are always much higher than at the ceilings. On the other hand, if you take the cost of operating into and even the life span of the building and watch it over a longer period of time, you will find more realistic numbers to compare the benefits of earthlines on the other hand with those in the atmosphere. The section lists five digits as to whether or not to use a ground cord or the corresponding line line. I'm not gonna read this team up, okay? Senators can examine them for themselves. But I'd like it if there were also a sharpening factor, of course, that laws on environmental impact assessment and that this is not a complete list of when to weigh and evaluate, and when to be overlooked, of the principle of electricity's main transport system that is used in air lines, of course, the assessment of environmental impacts should be implemented there. I'm glad to hear it. A minister specifically mentioned in his case that although the case is referred to a job committee, this should be considered at the Environment and Transport Committee. It is very important that we do so. Long - term planning is something that we should make more use of and take seriously than has sometimes been done. It's worked very often, even well, but I think it's part of the way. There are other factors to consider, too. On the other hand, even when it is time to come to an inhabited line, the talk is made of difficulties that can often arise, a legal case. I think we did well to examine the situation in other countries. I know, for example. that in Denmark it is simply a contract between the shipping company and the country's farmers and landowners, where it is simply a price log for use on earth, and if you are not satisfied with it, there is a sentence. I think a complete frame of mind would be good, and we should take a look at that as far as the proposal and absalut, and excuse the sleigh, when it comes to the long-term energy policy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u80	Mr. President. Only about whether it is right to present this document now. It's certainly a question of what order to win things. But I have a legal obligation to contribute this every four years. These policies have also been called on for a long time, including At a national meeting, as well as by other sources. So we simply cannot wait for energy policy to be set. Then every year, the system plan will appear, with the goal that this will be shown by the legislatator in a system plan. Only about the cost of stocks. Of course, it is also about whether a change in him is going to take place now. It was my opinion that it would go against the council arrangement to change this here because part of the proposal goes out of research. Then something that may change this comes out of them. It is debated whether this is the only right thing like this in the Senate arrangement from a large part of the employment committee or, like the dog. A senator identified the cost of operating, when taken in, and all. In some way, it would be contrary to the idea of opening it. It's made to lie as it is until we take it back up to over a year. And just to make a decision, they say on page 20. 9: The implementation of the above criteria and principles in the Parliamentary resolution of No. 11/144 should be taken into account by law No. 106/2000, the assessment of environmental effects, as appropriate. It was added here. I think I've finished.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u81	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister for the answer and for pointing out what had passed me despite any lengthy review; I've overstepped and all. I understand the perspective as the highest. Ministers are listed in energy policy and in what order to do things. As I mentioned, I do not feel that I have the only right way to do this. I was just wondering about that proposal. Now I don't know exactly, maybe I do remember the best. Minister it, it goes with each other to the Minister's duty rather than to submit this synopsis, whether or not it has anything to do with the approval of the Council. I'm not necessarily sure. In itself, a minister has fulfilled his law rights here. Then it is the Senate's accepting of this proposal. With regard to the laws and the majority opinion of the highest. Work committee to the highest level. A minister referred to this: Good and good to have it as it is for a year. I'm not quite sure that I'm convinced with that argument. Although we are going to reevaluate after a year, there are some changes we are making. And I think it's only common sense that if two things are being assessed, whether or not to go A or B, you're looking at the whole. If the cost of crossing the head is determined, if anything is to be done, is seen overall, not what is to be done at the beginning, but what will be the total cost of each individual. I hope the State does that in general when it is making decisions about his spending money.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u82	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. There are some things about this suggestion and this course to say that I will do in my speech later today. But I would like to ask. A senator, for I suppose he has received a better presentation of this as an executive than we, sitting in the government stand, but he was talking about the calculations at potential costs: Has the senator imagined how expensive earth cables can be a verse in the airline? Because at the other end, there are some who have to pay for the electricity, whether it's company or people, e.g. in the country. I'm asking if there's a roof on the senator's mind about the cost of land cables. Then I'd like to ask. A member of Parliament: It is said that there will not be an attack on the highlands. What is meant by the highlands? Is it the middle of the country, we talking about the Grinch, for example, highlands east or west? Is it just the middle of the country, or is it the whole of Iceland's highlands that can't be airlocks?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u83	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. In the Senate arrangement, it has been established. A senator asked about the various costs of land cables and ceiling lines. By permission of the President: If, in the above cases, the cost of building a land cord is no more than twice the cost at the ceiling in that section, a ground cord should be aimed at laying, unless it is considered technically possible to lay a ground cord... It's the norm. I don't really have any other reference that I think is right. With regard to actual cost as long as possible. That's exactly why I'm raising a question about the fact that the total cost of the construction is being watched. The fact is, though the total cost of living is greater, simply because we live in such a country, that air lines often fail or the weather is bad. This requires evaluation, the total cost. I'll share my concerns with you. A senator of who eventually has to pay for things. Just that way, I think it's right for me to weigh the total cost. As far as the highlands are concerned, I just admit to myself that I haven't sat down with the highest. A minister or a special application for exactly what is meant. I have understood, though, that when referred here to the highlands, it is what has been discussed, lines from north to south, or north, across the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u84	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answers. That's quite clear to me, and really, I call it the highest. A minister comes to the end of this discussion and explains what is meant by the highlands. Because Iceland's highlands are not just in the middle of the country, that's beyond that. If we're talking about the central and that part, and we're talking about a line from the north to the south or from the south or from the south to the east, it's important to get it straight. I want to thank you too. A senator for stressing and saying that, if I have correctly understood him, that when we discuss the cost of up to two times higher, we will not let it pass over us that it can be three times higher if it is chosen between lines or a ground cord. Another factor is that it may be difficult for some of us to swallow it if two times the cost leads to energy prices, e.g. At the Redfark, or in Akureyri or elsewhere, two times higher just for getting the line in the ground from south to the north. There is, of course, something that we need to explain and discuss as to whether we really agree and accept the conclusion. Or is it that if a ground cord will raise electrical prices, and so much for users at the other end, the State will enter and cover that cost? This is very important. It is impossible for us to accept implicitly that the cost may be up to twice as high as the one at the end, and the person living at the end will have to pay it. I'd like to thank the senator for speaking quite clearly. I hope I haven't misunderstood him about that two-fold higher cost on the ground wire.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u85	A respectable president. Don't let me tell you what's wrong. I was misunderstood by a senator. Most of the time, I misunderstood myself and would not lie there if he fell into that pit. Perhaps I would put it that way. A senator has taken the liberty of interpreting my words and taking them along a little bit. All I did was read this definition of the proposal and then said that, in itself, I didn't have a rhythm of any other formula. But I think with this as well as with a lot of other things in life, that although a set course and guidelines are set that should follow, cases need to be considered in particular. It's not just for setting a line on the ground, we have to weigh it against the environmental effects that the atmosphere can have, we wonder carefully which area we're going over. To me, a certain crown number can't be set that counts everywhere. On the other hand, I thank you. A senator for accessing the electrical prices. That's a very important tip. A senator with whom we are at ease. A professional employment committee will likely come on. Hv. A senator came along, I don't know if it's an idea or what, that if this means more electricity costs, then the state may step in there. I'm open to looking at everything. But in that regard, I want to reiterate what I've said here several times that the total cost needs to be checked. Although the cost may initially be higher, the overall cost of setting the ground may be lower at the end of the day. But maybe then some space needs to be covered.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u86	Mr. President. In the beginning, I would like to say in a discussion of a council resolution of government policy on the building of electricity transport systems, that in many ways the country and the nation live in an envious position in these substances. We generally have a good power transport system and a favorable price for electricity. I think it's very important that we remember that in the entire discussion. On the other hand, we have a project - some people want to call it a problem, I want to call it a task - that we have to sort out, which we haven't done well enough in recent years. In this discussion, we may be underlying that we try to discuss it in some way. At the beginning of city - and - city electrical lines, the electricity came and greatly encouraged the practical contribution, simple, and fastest throughout the country. Then they were willing to put forth some effort and, in some cases, overlook some negative mail to do so. But times have changed. We have other values, other needs. We don't usually notice the electricity until it leaves. That's when we call out loud. We may feel that it is always in the indentation or the switcher. But this may be a far more complex example. I think that's what we're talking about. For example, the employment committee involved in this matter may discuss further and further. member of the country to prepare for the line layers. Perhaps it is time for rural society to agree on the policy of where the lines should be. Maybe in part of the country. As members of the Northwestern district, we know that rural areas in Western lands have been able to achieve a transport strategy for that part of the country. They have set their priorities there. Could national or rural areas other than national groups agree on where the main transportation lines should be and help to support the restoration and structure that we really need? Second, I'd like to mention that the interests of landlords, farmers, are different from those of people standing on the ground, cheering up the electricity. Values are different. I have long felt that there is a lack of recognition that the times have changed in this regard. I don't think this country is going to be the way it is today that if we're going to make a big line, we're going to say, "Please, and get out of the way for us who need to get this electricity going, we're going to have to face the landowners more on equal terms, which affect them back to the local interests. I'll say something, like a bang. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé earlier, communications between landowners and power importer, e.g. I mean, renting land for masts and stuff like that. I think that's the whole time. It is still a social task to set the lineworks around. As stated in the first act of Congress, it is one of the basics of society. These fundamental structures in society certainly stand out from many others also mentioned in the synonym, such as. The road system. Although the commission is transportation and communication, I often thank you that we have not handled the transport system in the same way as the electrical transport system. I think that's what we're talking about. The job board must go a little deeper on the points presented in the Senate arrangement, whether it is actually possible to enforce them as they are there. I say there has to be a water exchange in certain factors that depend on what I could call the desk part of the electrical transfer system, i.e. what governments, policymakers, can do on their own at the desk, but not just where to put lines or whether they should be in the air or on the ground. I'll make it a subject of those points at the Parliamentary resolution proposals that deal with achieving the main energy exchange in transport and increasing access to electrical signals, since changing the development of the energy supply market and electricity production by legislation since 2005 have changed the times since 2005. I think we also need to look into the developments that have come from that time. We were very unhappy when we decided to have two earners for the electricity transfer and to switch between urban and rural areas. Model tea market. As far as I know, we are almost the only government that has gone that way. You can see that there is one income market model, even though we have a variety of currency between urban and rural areas. But there's the difference I'd like to make into the publicity, urban areas, and rural areas. I'm a member of a team where the Minister of Industrial Affairs has assigned me to lead and operate, and I'm not making any further account of him here. But when I'm in the middle of this case, I can't say that I've been able to say that my mind has become an unfortunate incident that I could argue that we had decided to have energy transport or energy prices here in the capital area, which is simply lower than in the country, so that we did not follow the points of this design, that we were one nation to enjoy these things. This has, for example, been observed. As a result, the transport and distribution costs for the Rorries network in the most expensive urban population have increased by 44.5% since 2005. The cost of transport to rural areas in the same government network has increased by 102%. In the Westside Energy Farm, 117% has increased by 82.5% at this time. It's been cut in between. The nature of this system's income market is that all the improvements we need to make will be added to the budget. However, there is a demand for improvements in the rural areas, in those who are building up operations, whether in tourism or in small data stations, as are also known to be driving in rural areas. As soon as we're going to take some operations to improve the transport system and the network, we're going to need to raise the manifest. At the same time as this development has been on the rural budget, the contribution of the state funds to balance the electricity costs that we have agreed on law to achieve certain targets by, has increased by 300% at this time, 2005◯2017. However, we have about 50% higher transport charges on electricity from the person we were going to level. This is what I would like to call the desk part of the electrical energy system, which we can totally take up a discussion on in the processing of this council-sense proposal. I got it. I got it. A job committee to look at it creatively because I believe we have a number of ways of doing things better and changing these priorities. Not all of them will be comfortable. But if we are just going to reach our goal in transport for energy change, using our green energy in a more efficient and more efficient way, we need to put the whole nation in the same boat in these materials. Then we could give a lot of talks about all the other factors that don't have time to do here, but in all of them, there are the points tore up in this Senate resolution proposal that are very important, that we can prepare with the mind that we are not afraid to take the desk part of the electrical energy system into reimburse.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u87	Hv. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson for his speech, as well as for the discussion on this council resolution of electricity transport. Since I'm on a professional committee, I'm only a replacement member of the council on this matter. I'm also an amateur of electrical transport, of equal electricity transfer across the country, around the country. Sometimes I haven't quite figured out how it says that he's not better than it turns out, that upstairs should be that situation, e.g. As in Northeast, diesel machines sometimes have to be activated in order to make the second need in times of stress and so on. Environmental considerations have been discussed in the layers of electric lines, and this inhibits this process. I'm so lucky to have a boy letter from 1981 in electrical activation and part of the parking system, it was that the tunes didn't see anything, but it was supposed to work. Like what? A senator came in, the people want his electricity. I want to ask you a question. A candidate in two ways: Is this bad service due to environmental considerations or because of a double model, as the senator put it, in companies in electrical transport?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u88	A respectable president. I will try as hard as I can to answer the question and as I have knowledge to discuss the point of view. A senator who is good and useful. I believe in itself that income markets and bibutions are not linked to the lack of electricity in the northeastern region. I think there's simply other factors. It also takes income to build those lines. They also need agreements, agreements with landowners, and parties on that subject. But I do, and I'd like to hear from it in opposition to what. A senator that many things, just on the desk, you might do better, for example. altering the composition of the income market model so that we are using electricity in another way that could in part be compared to those areas that claim to be lacking electricity. We could do that, for example. Because we have now come very far to rebuild our communications system and to apply a so - called scartnet in the chemicals that actually build on telecommunications technology, where we can equal the volume for demand in the electrical system.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u89	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answers. I would like to ask another question about what the senator mentioned in his talk. It's an expense at the other end, consumers. Then I remembered a cold area and an area where electricity is expensive. There is little money left in cold areas, i.e. when warm water is used to warm up, heat change, heat replacement technique. And the same with regard to marine energy production, marine energy efficiency, i.e. The ocean-falling mechanics. So I can get it right out of my mouth.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u90	Mr. President. Hv. A senator will consider a very interesting discussion that is very helpful in dealing with a Senate resolution on the construction of electricity transport systems, heat pumps and thermal pumps. The words he may have been looking for. The big secret, if I may put it this way, a respectable president, is that if we take about half of the electricity used for house warming, and usually acquiesced by electricity in so - called cold areas mentioned by the senator, we loosened it and filled with thermal pumps that in their nature save energy, we could, according to the Power Institute's plan, release some 40 to50 megawatts. One of the most eco-friendly activations in Iceland is the right motivation to release heat pumpisation and to increase the spread of heat plants that are in the same nature. On the tide tanks as fast as possible. A senator named I'm going to give you something. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u91	Mr. President. I thought it was interesting at the time. A senator what he comes on about the distribution of electricity in the country, and in recent years and decades, what has been the focus of the prices. We did our own thing, 20 to 30 years ago, or whatever it was, and we decided that it would be as expensive in all the country to speak on the phone. We pay the same thing wherever we have our cell phones, and now we have the same thing in Europe. I haven't studied it that way, but I understood why. A senator so that in Europe in general the distribution of one price would be indiscriminate, without distinction between national settlements and capitals or rural areas. Am I correct in my understanding? I'm asking why. A senator has looked at the cost of this, to balance, so people are paying for the distribution everywhere in the same way that we do in communication and such factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u92	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. It is of great interest to consider that during this period, when we are in the induction process of various directives, both in telecommunications and in the field of electricity transport, a targeted decision is actually made for one currency for all the land's communications. That's what we'd have been able to do in the electrical transport system, if I got it right. I may be mistaken, I'm not going to end something. But what I mentioned in my talk about a income market model that the hosts run at was that for the company Richard, it was essentially possible to have one income market model for urban and rural areas. Within that model, you could share within the company and even have a double currency. It is known exactly, one income market model, but Norway has a variable price between rural and urban areas. I don't have the numbers on a quick room for what? A senator's balance of this transport costs. But it's a lot of money. It's such a class. If we just stick to Raiks' service area, 96% are users of Raiks, if I remember the numbers correctly, on urban but 4% in rural areas. I'm gonna have a few short notices on these numbers, because I don't really have them that much of the paper I have here. There's a considerable difference, as I traced in the speech before, on the urban and rural manifest, of the increases between, considerable difference.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u93	Mr. President. At least I find it very interesting, and I think that's why. A senator should do this further, even to a professional committee. I don't know what other committees could have been used, just to get the statistics, what this means. Then we can discuss the matter of reasonableness and other factors. But this is clearly a large and large geographic issue, and it is important for large areas of territory. I find this very interesting talk. A senator brings in here into the Senate Hall. I think we should take a closer look.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u94	Mr. President. I think there's a lot of need for us to come up with these things. But maybe I'll use this opportunity to mention the added fact that we've established various laws, even decrees on settlements, in agreement with garden farmers to form. We have set goals in electrical law, that we are going to reach certain targets for consumers, which we have then used as government funds to subsidize; I mention, for example, house - to - house expenses. If you look at the trends of costs of subsidies for various projects, today's subsidies are about 1,700 million, but according to energy forecasts and the analyses I have received from the Power Institute, this subsidies may increase to about 4 billion by 2025 or 2026. This gives us every reason to take on deeper discussions, e.g. how we get it out better, like cot. paritaprevir Sigurður Jónsson mentioned, to heat pump, thus loosening the electricity and simply carrying less electricity.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u95	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I share the Senator's total concern over what he is clearly doing in front of him, i.e. pass through the energy prices and how it results in different ways to consumers, especially how those who live outside the capital area have been out of all of this for the past few years. At the same time as this important work takes place, there is a call all over the country that energy security is increasing, that our communities draw back and send us letters, and that calls for a huge amount of energy security for citizens and businesses. In the 11th section of this synonym says, by permission of the President: The design of the Agency should ensure that, where possible, the cost of transport and distribution to all electronic users should be maintained. I hope so. A senator will agree with me that if he is the right hand at the job he is going to, and this council proposal is the left hand, then he will work together. It's not going to go into adding currency and making electrical energy normal with one hand, but it might even increase with the other. As I'm reading this suggestion, it's their will for them to put it more distance from electric lines to a ground cord. We're good. It is possible in some places. But this is how it is today, despite the fact that the Council arrangement has to do with research, and everyone knows that in the vast majority of cases it is much more expensive or more expensive to put a groundline than a ceiling line. Now I'm asking why. Senator: Don't we have to make sure that this important work, as I understand it, is going on along with more prospective ones, and this council proposal is required but is not contrary? Is it not true that we may agree with something with this concierge that will make all the work that the senator is going to do in vain? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u96	A respectable president. I'll just say every word I've ever heard. A senator will drop here. Indeed, I am not alone in this work. This is a staff group at the highest. Prime Minister appointed and seated, including. Yeah. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir and a representative of the European Union and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Energy. This is the job we're dealing with if we want to improve the transport system. Then, according to the income market, we need to consider the cost of transport, thus increasing the payment. Then we need to break up the income market. What can we do to make sure that we do not make progress to the full? I have a picture of this: We have more emphasised what the system needs than what the consumers will put up with. It's the water conditions I wish men would begin to realize in these areas. One little bit I'd like to say at what. The senator is in the income market model that we drive transport costs to today's transport costs, because he named the delivery security of electricity, the price of the delivery security in income market models from other countries. I'm totally in favor of the increased electrical delivery security point, and I know it. So does a senator. We have made great progress in this regard, and we know large and handsome projects, such as. ... inan ex-hilarityofwhit. A senator on the West. But better, if it's enough. In the income markets of other countries, as I have learned this is, for example. It's an estimated cost of streamless minutes that we don't do here. That would be an incentive for the hosts to promote and improve the delivery security of electricity.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u97	A respectable president. I think, at least it seems to me, and hopefully I'm wrong, because of the policy being set up here, there's little chance that in the months or even in 2018, there'll be a lot of effort to secure or improve energy supply safety. It seems to me that there should be research and all sorts of assessments of ground strings before men are seriously reformed of existing systems. That's why I'm so worried. It is unacceptable that for those with poor security, those who are unable to build up jobs in a country, for example, or who have to pay tens of thousands and more for the energy bill than those living in the capital area, that it should not be done in 2018 but wait for some research. I hope I'm wrong. I reiterate what I said before that I feel utterly unacceptable that this council proposal will be accepted unchanged at the Council, let's just say that it doesn't go that way. A senator is talking about, i.e. improving the system and returning less power to the country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u98	Mr. President. I have no doubt that the approval of this synonym will bring us improvements. It would be better now if we were to live with prevailing conditions and position, not at all. In case of a moment. A senator experiences the text of the conclusion so that it will not be, of course, it is to correct and resolve it. In the former majority of things we hadn't. The members of Congress supported both of them were adjusted to do so, e.g. choosing the cheapest lines of lines each time, since we allowed for the first time, the most expensive route could be replaced by views related to, e.g. The environment of the earth, which I hear at the hearing. A senator is a little on the subject. Then the answer is: Yes, such measures will shortly increase the cost of transportation. I also tore up the views of rural society and the views of landowners who need to see the lines crash over their countries, we must also begin to recognize their property rights. This will also increase transport costs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u99	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Pre-Programmic, Industrial, and Neo-creation proposals allowing the council an opportunity to discuss policy and focus on the construction of the electrical transport system. As shown in the case of the highest. A minister is proposed in three teams where the general information on the structure of electrical energy is first discussed, second, on research and analysis, and thirdly, the criteria and the correcting of electrical lines. If I allow myself to cover them in the reverse order and start at the last, Unit C, I have to admit that it especially attracts my attention to the fact that the thin point of reference and the principles relating to the fixation of an electrical line is thin. This is likely explained by the failure of the government groups to cooperate in their policy. In fact, the government's declaration of policy is burned on the same end. Once the government has agreed on texts, there will always be dissension and disunity. It is positive, however, that only a year should be taken in order to reach a decision and an agreement, and this resolution should be reconsidered at the 2019 spring Summit. The problem is, the people can't afford to wait for the government groups to find compromise. We need to respond now. As for Unit B, I must admit that at first reading, I took notes, and am glad to do an independent analysis of the national benefit of improving the electrical transport system throughout the country, including the U.S. with respect to urban development. But then I read the article better and realized that this was all about the assessment of various technical solutions to the fixation of the electrical line, i.e. An earthline. Jei! A respectable president. Is this being offered to us? Don't get me wrong. It is a very important matter to shape a policy in which direction to use a ground cord or air lines. All I fear is that these endless delays and lawsuits between the government parties, reports and committees will become a further delay and will cause us to be simply too slow to respond to the system's support. That is not a pleasant thought. There's a problem. All it takes is a political decision. Sadly, it cannot be found in this document. Finally, it's the first team, i.e. ystem A. General factors relating to the construction of electrical transport systems. Of course, there are many important points. However, most of them may take the headline seriously, i.e. is very general. These include the first subject, by permission of the president: The electrical system is part of community infrastructure, comparable to transport and communication infrastructure, and one of the important reasons for the wide range of employment and development. Who wouldn't agree? This I would rather consider a general description of the system, and this is not a major policy. This is not even at this location in the text. However, the second point could be the first: It should be noted that the transport system at any given time can meet the needs of electronic users and contribute to the national targets produced in electricity laws. I wondered, though, what is the standard today when the system is as bad as it really is. The third point of focus is also fine as a cover point and actually comes in from the words published in the autumn. It's about more trust in the transport system, closer linking key areas, and securing the national delivery security of electricity. There I would like to see some sort of time limit or subtargets that would give special attention to solving the problems of less energy security areas and that, for example, in the late part of the year 2018, less than the year 2018 will be established so that their problems can be solved in the latter part of the year. It can be said that real direction, as I entered earlier, will finally begin to appear in the fourth point, which is also new from the events presented in the autumn. Actually, the top corrected. Minister to my understanding earlier that there was a head above, it would be impossible to rule out a wire line above the top of the country. Of course I'm glad, as I mentioned earlier, that the emphasis will be placed on the Northland, the Eyjafjörður, and the West instead. Points 51⁄215 are also fairly general, but point 7 is second of two points that come in new ones. It emphasizes the areas of reduced energy security, as mentioned earlier, and is extremely positive; and the possibility of a wide range of employment on a national scale should be guided by the structure. This is where I would've wanted to see more precise messages like I came in earlier. Mr. President. In my opinion, the proposal is way too universal. No timing or time reference is set, and too much powder is added to predicting and reuting. Or perhaps it's just taking a stand on a ground cord instead of discussing what the matter should really be about, i.e. that people all over the country get the same general opportunities, get electricity to develop their communities the same way that happens in the southwest corner. Thanks to large industrial structure, it is bi- and triple-circuited with electrical cables and kruss that no one seems to have pulled away or made comments. I have to admit that when it comes to a discussion of lines outside the southwest corner, I always feel that I am a bit of a twin. The fact is, we already have our pants down when it comes to the transport system of our country's electricity. I have repeatedly mentioned the most burning areas, the Northern Land, the Holasannd line, the Mixed Line, and, of course, the Western Land. The situation in the Eyjafjörður has become completely unacceptable, as has often been entered in this hall. Suppose someone is interested in building a company in Akureyri that would require ten megawatts for his work. They are very difficult if they are not impossible to approach because of the position in the transport system today. The situation in Akureyri is, in fact, that some companies have taken part in the use of oil pots. It must be unacceptable for Iceland, who boasts of renewable energy and green targets. Mr. President. These areas cannot wait any longer. The fact is, these policies are widely expressed and ask whether their guidance has an independent meaning when there is no clearer objective of concorditant rules for some measured goal. Is not clear and measurable goals missing? I mention that in the 2013 European Commission's Guide on Public Policy and Projects published by the European Commission, it is stated that a date for a document composed of ideologies, forward vision, values and goals followed by measures and financial measures. Won't the council at least have to put in the course his will to speed up as much as possible the system's funding, especially, as indicated in the 7th point of the proposal, in the areas where special burns? The time has long come for us to pull up our pants and make things fresh. That's where we're supposed to set policy. The introduction of the synopsis will show up, with the permission of a president: In this way the Council can provide specific principles and guidelines that should be taken into account at any given time, as the bill requires that the transport company take it into account. It also shows that this is the approach of the Generals to shape a system strategy, and therefore it cannot be understood differently from the very tool the Council has to promote his will, which includes. was very clear in this particular discussion. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson requested a long-term energy policy earlier this week. At that time, members of Congress expressed concern about the position of the transport system and stressed that the system's funding would be accelerated to the best of its ability, or at the highest level. The traveling, industrial, and innovation minister of Þórdís Kolbrún Gylfadóttir herself said in his final speech on Monday at the President's permission: ▪ I find it interesting to listen to the weight of the transportation system during this discussion. And later: ▪ I think it just shows what it burns at the council and in the community and especially in the country. Of these words, it is only to understand that the will of the council is to increase power and speed in the development of the settlement. Surely, then, we want to bring them forth in a clear way into the course that we now address. Mr. President. Now I'm in the position of being out of time. But I'm asking a president to put me on the rosary for the second time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u100	Mr. President. I'd like to take a moment to give a talk. A senator when she says even to number 1, i.e. on aspects related to the structure of the electrical transport system, if all too general. The electrical system is part of community infrastructure, comparable to transport and communication infrastructure, and one of the important reasons for the wide range of employment and development. It may be in general. This, however, is the basis for us to agree that this is part of society's infrastructure. While the company, the Landsnet, who is assigned to build up the transport network, has not been able to line for years, there must be some lack of confidence that they are as important as we are here to draw out. In terms of insufficient accuracy: There is a detailed system plan. It is the one with the projects down and in any order. It's approved by the Power Institute. So as to the fact that these government groups disagree with the fact that the project is delayed. Of course, we all know that it's not the politics that controls the bad luck, such as. To the north, building up the system. If I wanted a mix-up line for 2020, I can't put it in this council plan and see it happen. You see, I think that the line is there that we all first need to agree on the important things, so we need to trust those who do it, and then we need to have laws and rules that help us to win it. We may sometimes focus too much on the third factor, but we need to work together that these are the shallows that need to be present. Because today it is not as good as it is. It simply blocks, as I know it. A senator knows very well, the structure of employment in certain areas because of the structure of this system. I think the entire body of Congress agrees very well and see that it's very important to get it going. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u101	President. Thank you very much. Minister for these points. I hear that in itself, we agree completely on the basis of a lot of things. Regarding my suggestion that point 1 is too general, I also said that I don't really want to see it exit. I don't think it's a goal in itself, it's just this. There may be something I was also trying to say, that in a policy list, just try to look to policy as it is worked at the job market and have general explanations first and then set goals. Where the highest. A minister brings up a strategy, so I want to introduce it in my second speech. I can see that we're going to lay the big lines, but, of course, it's like the highest line. Minister came in, plans to implement the Council's will. Then we need to be more clear about what we want, what we want, and when we want to do it. At least give such a general idea that we want to see it happen sooner than later. Regarding the line lines and the problems associated with them, it is also a question of whether we do not have to pick up the exact matter, and I will introduce it in my second speech as well. It's not normal for you to be able to set electrons in Iceland. I don't believe anything but to the highest. Minister will agree with me on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u102	Mr. President. I'm kind of at the same point as the highest. A minister came into the Senate arrangement that is first proposed, how we envision it, how the council has a specific vision, and then how it works. The senator discussed the plan. It is made up of a ten - year - old and three - year project program on the project and how to do it. It is then made up of a donation that the Power Institute is expected to record that process. You could understand why. A senator before, as if there should be more in the Senate hearing here. Then I'd like to ask myself, " Do I want to? ' A senator changes the assembly's approach to this and directly enters this process, but is it within the arrangement that we are on today to cope with the exact task? There was a discussion earlier today, and I talked myself into a job committee this morning about the Landsnet and the companies who are the citizens of the Landsnet, the country's energy company, how the Senate should be doing this. This is Hf. And it's a bit complicated. What is the natural approach of the council to this matter that may be on the basis of the country's infrastructure? I just wanted to just roll it up and get past it. A senator exactly what he means about the synonym and then again the system plan. What is our role in this process of being like we're discussing it today?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u103	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A member of the Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson for a very interesting question, since he actually continues from what we discussed here at the highest level. Minister. I think this is the only way for the council to interfere with the decision-making of the company called Landsnet, a natural company owned by the government. As it happens in the very first year, which I called general here, this is one of the most important structures in the country. If the council does not use this one opportunity to interfere with the priorities of the company, I think that the council is not doing so at work. As a result, I believe that we should be clearer in messages. I'm not talking about how we're going to get involved in any detail, that we should start to interfere with the way the strings lie down or other, that's in a system plan, and which ways we're going to go, but to give these broad lines about not solving the problems, that there should be a way that the system works. We know exactly, and it has been repeated in this discourse that the system is not working properly. We're losing a lot of energy in the system as it is. We need to do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u104	Mr. President. I'd like to do this a little bit further, perhaps start by saying that it could be understood. A senator earlier said that political or political groups today prevented or slowed the process north in some way, it's not like that. I know that myself, as an old Councilman of Akureyri, and as a matter of discussion and rural government in the North. It's all about the lawsuits that have been going on in the past few years. I've been much since 2011 on these matters. What I might want to come into this is just how people are going to deal with these issues in the big picture. Is there reason to discuss more of these things with regard to the national structure. There's a safety point to this. These are the shallows, the electrical transports. In the modern world, they are linked to a safe course. You can totally take it there. Following our discussion here, I would like to ask if. A senator agrees with these views, and what about the lawsuit and the rest, and the national organization? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u105	Mr. President. I'm going to let me start by coming into policy for a moment. In fact, transportation plans set out for the council, e.g. A lot of powder in there. Why don't we have an electronic program or what we would like to call it, since we were as detailed as we are in a transport program? In the case of the lawsuit, it must naturally solve the process somehow, on the other hand, it does not work as it works now. I couldn't agree more. paritaprevir That's where the Njáll of Trausti Friðbertsson is. I'll come into it again better in my second speech about solutions to it. I think we have to consider a special legal procedure to establish an inside structure to settle this many years of controversy. I mention, for example. A reconstituted line that has been in the process for ten years and an additional eight to ten years until it arrives. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u106	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Flandish the Elíasdóttir of Elias for her speech I'm a little bit on the same page as the talk was given, but we'll discuss proposals for action on government policy on the building of electrical transportation systems. I saw in the 7th team that speaks of the building of a transport system on which the senator came in, and I don't know if the senator expressed it that way, but I wondered if it should not be in first place or second place. What's number one is a little in general, it's similar to what was being discussed in the house - to - house discussion. Everyone agreed that we all needed a place to live. We all agree on that. How, though, does the senator see that we could come to the highest priority of electrical safety when it comes to members of the industry? This is an equal plan, to level the situation, and that all the people of the country get electricity with the same safety all around the country, and at the same rate.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u107	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson enters a very important point in his case. I think that's what we're talking about. A professional health committee should take this very firm approach and set its mark on this course somewhat refreshingly. I'm pretty sure it's the highest. A minister would even be available to talk to us about it. You see, at least I think... Like a snooze. The job committee is organized, and considering how the discussion in it has been so far, that we could have a very useful and enjoyable conversation about how we can react to these things. I think it's hiding even. in priorities at the points set out in the policy setting here, to place extra emphasis on these exact points, and to ensure that this will be the first.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u108	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. Now, I want to know that I'm celebrating this council resolution, which is the order of the emphasis. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Peace of Elíasdóttir's daughter agrees. Then I saw the highest. In the side room, a minister nodded that we would have this conversation on the job committee. It makes me very happy. I just look forward to working on it, and I'm not going to have any more words about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u109	Mr. President. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir The Sigurður of Páll Jónsson, who sits with me for what? A professional health committee. As I began by saying in my speech earlier, I rejoice that this proposal has come out. I think there's a lot of opportunities for what's happened. The job committee, as I came in earlier, should affect your priorities, as well as your introduction with new, even clearer, and more specific points about which direction we want to see electrical transport systems based.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u110	A respectable president. We will discuss a proposal for a resolution on government policy on the building of electricity transport systems. This case is presented here for the first time. It is a pleasure to have such a good guide into the future, which we hope we will agree on. I entered the council in 2013 and reminds me that this case was one of the first issues we discussed on a professional committee. Now the offspring are on the move, and I like it a lot. Of course, there are differences in opinions about one aspect of it, but the big lines are very much in harmony with the viewpoints that were somewhat difficult when I first came to the language when we discussed a much more expensive, earthline. However, by changing the law, the Landsnet has more potential for using a landline that was not previously possible for them. Is that good? As shown in the synopsis, the study for land cables is given special emphasis to increase their share in the transport systems of electricity in the ground. I have to say, as it is, that's something I really like about it. The Treaty states that electricity transport and distribution systems must meet the requirements for employment and the public for safer delivery. We're talking about the blood vessels of employment and human life in the country. That is of utmost importance to the supply of safety. The transport system is in many ways like an island, where there are strong infrastructures in certain areas, such as the South and West, where the transport system is strong, but then the connections to North and North East are less efficient. Of course, there is a key to developing that system in order to secure delivery security and to increase the transport. It is clear that in many parts of the country, electricity is virtually lacking. We've been reminded of it in this room that, for example, In Akureyri they're building a diesel station because there's not enough energy there. Of course, there is a bitter opposition to what we've been talking about in climates and only in this country where we have access to renewable energy, that we can't move it to those who need it. It is extremely important for regions north and east, especially for jobs, to ensure the transport of energy to destroy diesel reactors, to make fishing companies, fish farms electrocuted. In the United States, large amounts of oil are destroyed every season. We work hard to correct such matters. I can't let it pass to mention the situation in Southnes. That's where the transportation system is fully new. The line south is read. It's about the same place. 24,000 people. There is the nation's international airport. Only one piece of iron was needed to roll in the line so that it would be power free in the Southnes for hours. It tells itself that the situation is completely unacceptable in a modern society that calls for security in employment, hospital safety, driving safety. It comes from all over the world, and it is an enormous issue. There is also an enormous issue regarding linework and ground cord. Of course, there will always be a debate in our beautiful country where to put the lines. I have to say, since I came into Congress in 2013, as I have said several times in this talk, I feel that the discussion has developed very much. I think most senators who participate in this discussion become much more calm over the available routes because we are going to increase the share of land cables. We may not realize this, but in our hometowns, most of them sprayed and sprayed air lines all over the street just a few years ago. They're long gone. No one really notices that the telephone lines and the electric lines that were like a town net are missing anymore. Happily, gradual decline is taking place. Of course, the best thing to do is to get to the ground, but it also involves certain defects. High - volume wires on earth take a lot of space, cause much soil, so they always have to be evaluated. We will always deal with it in certain areas. Truly, in some places, air lines are mostly reversible, but they may not be all there is to the earth. We'll always have to weigh this. To do so, we need good guidance. Hence, the regional structure proposed by this synonym is actually a useful guide for the 10 - year strategy and the three - year strategy. What I really like about the proposal and have established is the increased research that the government suggests will be done on the basis of a practical earthline. We are today's society that requires security and security by shrinking to the highest form of construction, anywhere, and at any time. It is my hope that the Council's resolution proposal, presented for the first time, will be a guide to the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u111	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his speech. I think only of the comparison between those extensions placed in the urban areas and these huge, 200 - mile [200 kg] strings that must be placed in the highlands or anywhere else that will be needed and so much holy space to be able to reach them and repair them and the like. They break like other things. I can't see in myself any of this piece of paper that's gonna reduce this concern about electronic security say in the Southes in the next few months or even this year, so I'd like to ask you why. Senator: Am I wrong? Does the senator see anything in this program that will make the senator's concern over the security of electricity on Southnes or Southland?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u112	A respectable president. Thank you for this inquiry from what? Senator. Of course, for our safety in the South, for the inhabitants there, there are issues now that have stopped further implementation. That's one of the things we're going to experience in the future, the constant debate over lines and landlines. This has required a ground cord. I'm told that it's going to have a serious environmental impact... to land cables in the lava of Smokeynes. As the earth cables are larger, their holy region becomes more sacred. I'm told that it can take up to it even as it did other Rhines, or half of it, which is naturally an enormous intervention in nature. That's why I think we have to take this discussion in a wise and unsatisfied manner and try to produce the best arguments we can and, of course, with the help of those who are familiar. I don't see our solution completely in sight, but it's urgent for us and, as I mentioned, for the North and North East that we're getting certain of the rest, and we're going into a period of time that guarantees safety of nuclear energy delivery to the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u113	A respectable president. This plagion proposal is for government policy on the building of electricity transport systems. That's what they said earlier today, the highest. Minister said it wasn't political, it wasn't political in this case that delayed the structure of the system. I completely disagree with the highest degree. Minister. It's exactly what has delayed the development of the nation's electricity system. It's the environmental politics that has now entered the government. It has delayed this structure primarily. It's not that politicians disagreed with each other. Yes, of course. But first of all, it's the political bitch who's been holding it off. This proposal is for government policy on the building of the electrical transport system. I'm not against electrical cables, so I say right now, I'm very into electrical cables where they fit, because they don't lead to more environmental activity and because they don't lead to higher electricity prices for consumers or those at the other end. That's when I'm up for electrical cables. But I asked why. A senator would, to some extent, reduce the worry of those who have reduced energy security in southern or southern parts of the country. Well, I'm pretty well aware of what I'm saying. A senator cannot answer that question, for there is nothing simple to do, but there is nothing in this program that makes that happen. If anything is, I think it's a step back in that way to study, it's to be seen, it's to leave the ceilings in an earthline, it seems to me and spend years looking at it. That's how I get it. It may well be a misunderstanding. But I do feel that this proposal is a sign that environmental politics is completely involved in this case right now at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u114	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this discussion. I think that in this council resolution of government policy on the construction of electrical energy policy, a key policy is naturally being introduced, of course, not to mention single lines or lines. We may be setting the frame we want to work for. I think me and what. A senator may be in a similar area when talking about strings or electrical lines. Of course, I think the cost must be one of the factors that will be discussed when deciding a ground cord or a ceiling line. That must be one of the factors in making a decision. I can also fully agree that in certain cases, the increased cost of land cables may not necessarily be excluded because, in particular, sensitive nature can be the way for anyone to accept it. I think we're on the same page there. As I said in my speech earlier, me and Icelanders are the founders of nature. We have a beautiful land, and we need to take care of it. We need to try to make some agreement with nature on how we can use the land, the new energy, and how we're going to get it to the people of the country. I think that's what we need to agree on and to settle down with nature, that's a huge deal. It's not a simple thing. Here we read: "There will be no layering of lines over the highlands. " Of course, we need to examine that too.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u115	A respectable president. Here we will discuss a very urgent proposal for the resolution of government policy on the building of electricity transport systems and the infrastructure of electrical energy transport systems. It's supposed to be a celebration. This is the first time it's done, and I think it's very important that the council handles these matters in the way this is done. The purpose of the proposal is to conclude with the Council in accordance with Article 39. Electromagnetic No. 60/2003, for the construction of the electrical transport systems, including the design of a system plan, the policy presented in the Parliamentary process will be guided by this guide. That's very important to me in this suggestion and the following points and joints. 15 points are presented in Article 1 under general conditions. I thought it would be okay to add two points when I read the conclusion. The 16th point could be: improved consumption of the resource by means of the powerful electrical transport system, i.e. that energy can be more efficient in making the transport system so powerful that it can pay and safely between land areas. Then I am, for example. to think about how it is today before the activation in the reconstituted product, which has never been used by 10 to 15 megawatts. There's one point. In general, national use might be discussed. And then the 17th thing could be about securing electrical security between countries in terms of natural disasters. Then I quote a discussion that was already reported in Bárdjörg, and there was a eruption in Holunun. Then there was a lot of discussion about the wound area and the natural disasters that could occur there. So it is also a matter of high security for the nation in this regard. Section 2 is very good, but it discusses further independent and independent research by specialists on the effects of different technical solutions in correcting electrical lines. A closer look at it is absolutely important. The progress in this field is growing, and it has been in the last seven, eight years when there have been a debate about technology that has developed rapidly and as many possibilities as possible. I would especially like to call attention to the position in Eyjafjörður, my home environment. It is one of the biggest issues in this document, in a system plan, and in the work you are working on, while Eyjafjörður, Western and Southnes are in very bad cases about electrical security and the quality of electricity that flows through those areas. These large areas have poor and limited safety. As a result, the Eyjafjörður has greatly reduced the competitiveness of companies in the region. Even over a decade of lost tools have been spoken of because of the way things have been happening in the past ten years. This has been set up disil generators for large amounts over the past 12◯18 months, for over 100 million, just to ensure the safety of electronic energy. Clearly, it is an unacceptable position. It is starting to connect the reconstitution process to the River Valley activation process. There's three lines to go. Start at Core Line 3, from the Crucesa to the Valley of the River, and then continue Holasandsnd Line 3 from the Cruces at the Ranger's Field in Akureyri. This will be followed by the subsequent procedure of reconstitution line 3. Then you'll have a connection. This would result in an electric island in the same way that we know at the southwest corner today as we know the Red Sea. As a result, consider how these areas should be better connected. So it's the energy zones in the north and then the Thornfield and the southwest corner. The building line has been very busy. I agree with what. In recent years, a senator who spoke before to me about a discussion in the Assembly Hall that she has developed in many respects. But I would like to have a closer look at the possibilities of highlands, cables and DC cables as well as current cables. And when you look to the future, these benefits are not excluded. The development has been very rapid in this area. In this context, I'd like to be very concerned that before you begin to close all possibilities with string solutions or cross the highlands, you've at least got your hands on how you're going to complete the line line as you're going to do today, south of Lake Seven and Up Mountainbak, in your sails to close the ring. I could quite believe that this region will be difficult for many in terms of solutions. We need to think of this more comprehensive than has been done in the discussion so far. When we talk about explosions and then back to Mountainbak, problems can arise too. It's a little bit of vision missing, putting your arms around the whole thing. The modern transport capacity of the population's focal point is 3◯4% of the potency of the inducers in the country. It's too small. It makes it impossible for us to use our energy properly. There's a lot of energy loss in the system, up to billions of dollars a year, which is then just a national loss. A desirable proportion has been said to be 15-1⁄20% to exploit the energy resource. I've only been discussing the security issues, and I've completed connections between the north and the Third Sea and the southeast corner, for good connections. The subject was discussed in 2015. Then, in 2015 a law on these issues began to be looked at, that might be put in strings, and that the cost could be twice as high as the traditional lines of international airport and population. It is one of the mature steps that has been taken in these seven to eight years. Then there may even be cases where the stringing of strings is no more expensive than traditional high - tension cables. Then just have to look. Now a committee is about to start looking at these things even more closely, and it is due to produce a year's results. It is important that this work takes place in the year before the council, and we can continue with this discussion. A paper with the proposal says, with permission of the president: A more important network and a greater transport capacity between regions are also relevant to the ability of the transport system to perform its role in the case of major natural disasters. Also says: To better connect key areas, the transport sector needs to be in line with need-to-examine, and the most urgent areas must be placed in place. That's what this is all about. I hope we have an acceptable solution for the council and for the material treatment. This is clearly one of Iceland's largest issues today, much less in the country, and is actually a fundamental factor for continuing development if it is to be positive. I'm gonna make it count for now. I see my time is running out. But hopefully we will come to a good conclusion in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u116	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech, and he wants to use the opportunity and thank you very much. Minister for presenting this important synopsis proposal. Now I know what to do. paritaprevir In Njáll Friðbertsson, we are well aware of the situation and of the situation we live in in many parts of the north, where the security is said to be the least very bad. So I cut down on him in his speech and reply earlier today. The senator discussed the next step. I agree with what. A senator discussing a very important course, and I declare myself completely acceptable to what is going on. But I wonder what. A senator agrees that some action has to be followed. Then I'm not talking about myself, either in the air or in the ground, but that there may be a reason for us to look at other changes. I cut it at the end of the day. A senator mentioned earlier national organization, how things are handled in the matter of litigation, and so forth when it comes to fixing the lines. It seems to me that most of us agree on today that there is something very unnatural that the Landsnet has not been able to lay lines for years.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u117	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It has been extremely difficult for us to build a built - down line or a high - tech energy system in the country, a transport system. The school process and the feeling in historical context are that things have been sullied pretty well and that they delay the process incredibly. There has hardly been anything created with high-voltage lines or in the main energy transport system for ten years. As shown in today's discussion, there is an enormous need throughout the country. In some ways, we need to examine how we can improve the process so that it cannot be stopped over and over again. This has been experienced in the north of the last decade. They've been over the process. It's that serious. The job life is under freezing. There's not much to do. The hospital runs more and more, becoming many times, at a diesel station to ensure the safety of its clients. Business companies in Akureyri are setting up diesel stations. North power is setting up stations far and wide throughout town. It's the degree of size that people really need to look at it. I think we could just take a closer look, as I said earlier today, put this into practice with the national structure and how we can get a full picture of this, as is done in many countries around us where things are looked into in broad context, looked into security and other factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u118	Mr. President. Thank you. For this answer, a senator agrees with him on the importance of our response in some way. It is amazing to think that 2017 saw reports of the construction of diesel generators in Akureyri and that we, a country that can produce pure energy, are incineration, and pollute with it. I am confident that this is one of the largest environmental issues involved when it comes to ensuring the safety of electricity all over the country and taking into consideration the need to consider whether we may have some basics at home in a national organization, perhaps with certain airports, possible ports or other such items, in a national structure. Hv. There was a senator who handled the charges well, and no doubt we have been somewhat professional when it comes to making environmental assessments and reviewing the best course of action. It is also quite amazing to think that it may have been agreed on in the local region's regional structure to build a line, even in the main structure of all areas, and at both levels it can be reported. Then, in time, we're going to lay the line, and we're going to have to have a contract, and then we're gonna have to file a lawsuit again. I would like to direct them to the minister and to the council to discuss whether this is normal, whether it is a good arrangement, and how much it costs us at social cost.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u119	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I often have this point in other matters, whether it's airport or any other show, looking to Sweden, and what Sweden has been doing with its affairs. Swedes actually agree to a national security policy, where they put their main airports, bridges, high-voltage lines, and important infrastructure under this term. I don't know if this should then connect into national planning policy, that we define our major security interests in the infrastructure, whatever it is we want to look after and what we need to guarantee. I've watched this concept and read about it, and the definitions are in many different ways in neighboring countries. It's a government agency that's a little more mature than ours and has developed longer periods of time, and humans have even recorded decades ago in the countries. All of this is about ensuring the security of the citizens of the country so that individual rural areas can somehow interfere with the process. I'd be interested that this would be considered more closely in that context.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u120	Mr. President. This matter of transporting is one of the main tasks of the day and, indeed, the next year. I look upon this synonym as a very positive suggestion. I'm also going to remind you, and it's actually been suggested that it refers to both Landsnet's system and energy policy. We must not forget, when we are even criticizing that things are not right here, that what I have already mentioned is supported. 15 points are discussed. I'll cover some of them. Enrollment safety is discussed in step 3. The available safety in the country not only turns to the low - tension system, which is sometimes called the distribution system but also the high - stress system, which we call transport systems. It's very important not to be confused. But the other is so different that the security factor is not in the system. When it comes to the high-level transport system, the main cause is too little security for a long period of lack that the national energy sector has not been linked with lines with sufficient transport capacity. It's a long story. Part of it has been listed here, and of course, it is time to act. A section 4 covers a landline and then a line, as it were, over the highlands. The use of aquifers is spoken of as taking place in a practical way. Then we must not forget that technical factors are also involved. In itself, it is relatively complex fables, and it is devoted to even the same. Because in the case of a mixed transport system, no earthline and air lines can be placed in balloons and waited for, there are some more systematic problems that need to be overcome. It is very important that we accept this too when we think about practicality that it is not just financial practical, it is also technically practical. This sentence, not to be attacked in line across the highlands, with the permission of a president, may have, I don't say, miss out in the contract, but I have every confidence that when we discuss lines, we're talking about airlocks. It's a very common concept. If you mention the word electric line or line to some people, it's the airline, the other one called the earth cable. However, if we put it that way, there are electrical lines of overpowering, and they are divided into earthlines and atmospheres. So here we refer to air lines, and the highlands by means of a branch are the central highlands. No one's about to park a high - necked wire over the Grinch or something. Let's say there's a tight line over the highlands in the West, and there's no other way to go but across the highland if you're going to link up some of the fortresses that are available without me taking sides with them. If we go down to section 6, we are referred to as an option. Again, a system plan comes in because a system plan has a sort of script about what needs to be done, but then, when it comes to the implementation, it obviously has to be a choice. It is very important that these choice analyses be submitted and laid to the core because it is not only a cost question but also the natural line route that is large when it comes to the environmental impact of the relevant line. In section 8, energy exchange is discussed. There is another support to this transport program. The energy exchange is very multi-item. We're talking about some of the other things. through electric cars, electric energy in ports, and electrical energy to fish - quilts. Now it's about cars, just to remind you, we're not just talking about cars. I have mentioned before from this platform that I feel that senators and others are too focused on them because there are other sources of energy, whether it is an estimate or an alcohol or a spirit of life or hydrogen, which comes to mind what kind of device we're talking about. All of this requires more or less electrical energy for production. Thus, there is much more to it than just electricity in electric cars. Of course, in terms of port electricity, it's a very urgent solution. I've heard a total of 61⁄27 billion and 30 megawatts. When it comes to electricity for fishing, it is somewhere between 100 and 120 megawatts in total. There has been an intense criticism of the energy prices experienced by those who have tried it. We're on to Team 9. It discusses the use of earth cables in areas where a ground cord produces the greatest benefit over atmospheric line. If the senators have listened to Landsnet's words, it has been very clear that two miles [5How8 km] of landline in Skavetir and the Eternar are perfectly normal and should ensure that a strong line in the north should be a relatively monotonous task. In terms of energy exchange, ocean - related activity is also discussed. Of course, it is a ship that is involved in history, so the demand for energy is still increasing and needs to be taken into consideration as well. Joint 12 will discuss reducing visual effects through the development of new transporters. This is not merely to indicate that it needs to improve visual impact, if we can put it that way, new air lines, but to a very large extent the need for maintenance of older high-voltage lines has become very high. Instead of all of us all know how to build any other type of masts that have been developed, considerable work has been put into the development of these transporters. There are more or less lines to form, or there are lines that go very well with this ideologies. A thong shall be, as an option along the roads to be followed by a month's hand, said here, by the permission of a president. I think there's a point we need to think very well, not just for them to be along the roads, but for what we mean by high - necked earth cables and for humans to realize the Holy Area, which can be 71.78 meters. Why is that? Yes, that's because the canal is large, that's three roads, it's relatively deep. It must be filled with sand, a special sand, heat source. He's got a long way to go. He could even be imported. The road that runs along the corresponding high-voltage cable, whether new or newly developed, has to be tolerated. Then the excavation goes from the ditch to the side of the canal. It can only be used to fill the canal to a small extent again. So the holy area, as you can see, is getting very big. If it comes to different lines, one on the other, and one on the other, echoes, you can imagine the difference. It is relatively easy to land aquifers to declare over parts of the central area, the center of which there are nothing but layers of ground, but to land tens of miles of land in solid rock. I would like to mention, for example, that the Norwegian Parliament simply agreed that there were only air lines used in Norway's massive transport system. Those who have come to Norway can imagine why, both because there is an enormous amount of rock, a bare rock in Norway, and then there are the feathers and the valleys. So it is a very reasonable arrangement in many respects. Of course, land cables are used in some limited area, but in general, this is the case. As we examine these matters, we need to take good care of them and the following. I think the criticism that this is a general synoptic proposal, too general, is not a reason to support only in a small way because it is in the long run. We're thinking about transport systems to 30, 40, 50. [[The president calls.]] One year in preparation is not an excuse. Now the case will be referred to what. Named. I hope she has the wisdom to work well, as well as that we will continue to talk on these terms as we have. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u121	Mr. President. I'm gonna start by thanking you. paritaprevir Ari Guðmundsson for the speech. It is clear to everyone that he speaks with great and extensive knowledge. I also need to add that knowledge and understanding are not always compatible, but that is certainly true in our case. Senator. When we discuss these issues and the transport systems of electrical energy, we can draw them from a variety of perspectives. We can talk about it from a economic point of view in general, regional, and then from nature protection or natural protection. Sometimes it all comes together, and we have to try to integrate our views, protect Iceland's nature, which I believe is one of the greatest economic assets we have. That's why we need to be careful, and that's where I think we're gonna take it. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson has a good match. It is true, though, that at times something needs to be sacrificed to get something else. When it comes to e.g. energy exchanges, which I think we all agree on, may be that we have to sacrifice to others, including the value of others. Natural beautyes when it comes to nature. I wondered how we can balance and how we appreciate it. I'd like to ask who, too. A senator. It says in a government contract, and it points out that the administrative treatment of decisions linked to the line layers has taken quite a long time because of various factors. I wondered if he saw some of those ways, simple, so that we can get together in simplifying the administrations all in that regard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u122	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. The first thing about sustainability. We'd like to talk about energy processing and, therefore, energy distribution being on the most sustainable level. We cannot say that it is self-sustained, and the reason is that when it comes to the natural factor - sustainability has three foundations - it means almost all the energy produced by a radar, whether it is dams or roads or lines or buildings, etc. There is no formula, but it is only a social agreement on what is acceptable, whether it is the council or the locals or the public. That is what we have been doing for decades now, and we are not in many ways beyond our reach. Yet, tremendous progress has been made. That's what I can say about this balance. I'm sorry, I have to feel sorry. Senator, don't worry about it very much. I've been more involved in sustainable thinking and I don't have any ideas here and now I'm ready for this. I agree that there will be in some way such simple work, but in the presence of the public, the presence of the local community, the attendance of the council must not be discouraged. We're only making the system more efficient. If I go through with it for some day, I may well be able to bring better information, but I have to admit that. A senator will take me to bed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u123	Mr. President. I didn't mean to take it. Senator Ari Trausti Guðmundsson in the sack, like that, I'm not gonna do that. When we discuss the construction of the electrical power system and whether to activate in the other locations or not, the discussion will always take two poles. So it is that not all human works are undignified, and even a living person can be beautiful, and at times become part of nature, as aquifer is an example of which many do not really realize that there is a foundation and that has become part of nature. This may be desirable for us. There's another thing I wanted to hear why. The senator on. There are plans to set up windmill gardens in many parts of the country. I don't have a complete overview of it, but I have strong doubts about its advantages, not about the quality of the energy being created, but about its visual pollution. I don't know why. A senator has knowledge of the impact, e.g. Windmills have birdlike life. It'd be interesting to hear about it. Shared. paritaprevir When it comes to building windmill gardens in many parts of the country, does Ari Trausti Guðmundsson worry me?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u124	Mr. President. I appreciate your answers and questions. There's something called a cultural crisis. We've been here a thousand years and we've made a cultural crisis involving old toils and water respiration and geotherms. This is one of the factors involved in creating a balance between nature, crops, and nature protection. I simply think that once again it's the community condition of where it can be and where it doesn't matter, along with the fact that we stay as close to sustainable as possible. With windmill gardens, I don't know what to worry about. A senator of them, or of windmills over his head, because I know they're going very well in Iceland. A map has been created on which locations in Iceland can be used for windmills. In itself, I don't want to write them off forever, not at all, and that's why I've asked senators in a few categories, rule groups at least, to stand by me to report windmills, all of the elements of cigars, even an eco-cocre twist from the cradle to the grave, which we call biography. A great deal of criticism has been observed by windmills outside of sight or by other sources of pollution. Nevertheless, I think that if we can agree that we build an industrial area with large monuments, high monuments, it is not excluded that there are windmill gardens in some isolated place in Iceland where it works. But we need to be very careful about this. Now, I hope the reporting is going into the energy policy, entering this Senate resolution in a way about the transport system, and we're going to find some successful solution. But I don't want to rule out anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u125	Mr. President. It's an electric shower here in the conference room when we discuss the building of electrical energy systems. It's kind of so bad. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kármson reviewed some of the questions I had wondered about. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson into the water. I would also like to express my appreciation for each speech. Senator. It's a pleasure to be able to sit here for a long time. paritaprevir Ari Guðmundsson, who heard him speak from this knowledge of the sect and why we take advantage of the knowledge that he has in this work all together. I'd like to pray. In his talk about the decision made by the Norwegian Council, a senator would consider a little more carefully what he mentioned. I have heard a lot about the methodology that the Norwegians have used, and they may be several steps ahead of us, and we could learn much from them without knowing all about it. What a pleasure it would be if it were. A senator could cross it with us a little bit. Then, in part, I would like to agree with what appeared earlier about windmills. In fact, I have to admit that I had not realized what was being said. A senator for the entire escape of the windmill from the cradle to the grave. But I believe it is important that we have a clear policy on where wind mills can rise in Iceland. In my community, I have personally experienced that there are people who claim to be behind them rich people who want to build windmills. It is clear that we need some frame around which such parks would be built up and where, how they would connect into the net and their influence.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u126	Mr. President. Thanks again. Senator. About Norway. Norwegians produce 283/430 thoust. A power can compared to our 2,700 megawatts. Their land is naturally far and narrow, as humans know, and their landscapes as they are, and their rocks are just what they are. It's a lot of high ground and ground. So this core line is simply the result of both analysis and discussion a little while ago in the Norwegian Council. This is the result. If you go to Holland, Holland is basically just dirt, loose soil, it's just the opposite. There, governments have simply agreed that the main transport system is in the earth. It's just different circumstances. We're out there somewhere in between. As far as the windmills are concerned, the law is lacking. It is spoken of in a government covenant that the law lays laws on wind - power parks. There are many tasks in the minds of people in the pipes, even when they have been treated quite well. It's just the two projects that have actually had some experience, i.e. ... withBorfellandthenbackoftheKreervetown. All of this needs to be examined. What's really important, and it did happen on a radio interview not long ago that there are men who think this is supposed to be out of the frame. In other words, it may build a large wind - power painting that is tens of megawatts, but it does not fall under the code, which I think is entirely wrong if so. There's a lot to think about. We're just getting started. It is simply a huge task for the council to cover this aspect of Iceland's energy efficiency as much as a show that is very unused, and I mentioned here in a talk at some point, namely, marine stragglers. They could give us considerable and, in some respects, be much more invisible than windmills [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u127	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for these answers. I agree with him that I think it's totally unacceptable that this place could build windmill gardens that produced some dozen megawatts and that would be completely out of the box. I think it must be necessary to put it in the box. I also had the intention of talking to people about what. A senator for the administration of these factors. I admit that I may have limited knowledge of the land and the environment, but I have a considerable prediction about these matters. As I crossed over in another answer, it is my position that there is something wrong in the system as it is today when it comes to setting electrical lines, whether in the air or on the ground, into an organization, and there are perhaps three organizational levels that all can charge. As it turns out, you have to apply for a job permit again, and you can also sue. I wonder what. A senator has some opinion. If not, maybe it's nice that we start to think about it, because I think it's very important that we start answering these questions at the conference about how it's normal to keep up with such projects. It has also been discussed in this discussion: Is this something that has a place in the country? At the very least, we need to review these organizational factors and somehow grasp them better than has been done in recent years.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u128	Mr. President. To answer that, I may not feel very deep. In many ways, these are projects that concern the whole country. This is quite different from many projects that are highly regional. This can be likened to a road project in Iceland. There is a specific administration system, a specific government system. We have this in energy, in transport or in activation. I agree that in both of these areas, transport or energy, there is a bit of a distraction. I hardly have in my head a cover over it here and now if I should count it up and explain it to someone. I think in this case, there's the highest possible. Energy minister, highest. Environment and resource ministers and the highest. Ministers and even more ministers sit down together and review these matters and see where the aggressors are, where to sort out, what to change, but I again stress that it is necessary to ensure the survival of stakeholders, public, rural society, etc. The whole process. This needs to be done effectively, though it is not on board that some specific project can be delayed for five to ten years because it walks around in the system, going around in lawsuits. It's not a good government, and it's not a good time now, if we put it that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u129	A respectable president. Here we will discuss a judicial resolution on government policy on the building of the electrical transport system. I welcome this suggestion. It is one step in removing the dams that have been developing in this field. This policy should be guided by the implementation of a system plan. System plan is a framework for building the part of the electricity transport system belonging to the Landsnet, i.e. the most intense transport system or the main transport system. In this field of thought, there are many people, I think. This proposal suggests a general objective, but in a system schedule, a more precise and timed schedule should be submitted. So the plan is very important to home and professional life. The production and distribution of electricity are linked to the inevitable environment and affects the environment in any way. The conclusions are listed in Part A as 15 basics all of which are relevant to the structure of the system and set the general basis. It seems to me that there are many aspects of the transport system that appeared in a special discussion of long-term energy policy last week. Yet, I still believe it is important that the professional committee should be surmounted in the actual sense of each step. Access to electricity is, of course, the basis for job development and the role in national equality, but that is, unfortunately, just as high as the highest level. A minister earlier said that the quality of life involved in access to electricity is not even divided. They know well what it says here because I was eight years old when electrical transportation systems were connected to my home. I'll stop specifically at point 11, in point A. It says that building measures should be as practical for transport and distribution to all electronic users. I believe it is important to revise the dual system we have established or at least to wonder if there is a basis for something to change. It applies to the revenue model system, but also cooperation between the companies responsible for the transport system and the distribution system, cooperation or interaction of the enterprises. I agree with what was presented. paritaprevir The son of Haraldur, the son of Benediktsson earlier in his discussion, about the desk of the electricity system as he called it, and agree to his request for a professional health care committee that this part will be examined specifically, i.e. The guise model. Also, I've often wondered if any walls we've built between the main transport companies and then the distribution system did not produce an increase in the overall cost. Do Landsnet and Rark have to stay out of their office and position on either side of the same street or make practical arrangements for companies to work together as a whole under the same roof? Although electrical power prices for rural homes have been evened in recent years, the same can be said about electrical prices for rural companies. This results in a great difference in all rural activities when it comes to competition with similar urban companies. This is especially seen in travel services but, of course, in more articles. This is also a major problem for many rural communities where schools, swimming pools, and social homes are being run around the countryside. In addition to the principles mentioned earlier, in Part B, 15 of the A team, it is recommended that separate persons perform independent and independent investigations on the effects of various technical solutions during the recovery of electrical lines. This is very important, and it is very important that this work results rapidly and effectively, but in this field as elsewhere, technical progress is rapid and the question is whether this work does not need to be ongoing so that at any given time a decision is made on the basis of best available knowledge. Therefore, as important as it is to use the best technology at any given time, we can never wait for all technical solutions to occur. I thus agree with the viewpoints presented at the same time. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttir's son Proppér'about the importance of both looking at ground cord stock costs and the overall cost of life being carried out. It is known to all who have observed the changes that have occurred in the low-spectrum part of the network, where it is introduced to every layer of revolution, especially in ice weather. In this program, the distribution system has not been established, but I do not believe that it is relevant to a work programme on the structure of the distribution system for the three-phase electricity in this context. Now, for example. About 70% of the Rark's system of distribution in a three - phase, which has been built together with progressive restoration by earth cables. Already, 57% of the distribution system is on the ground, thus increasing the supply safety in the rural population and the number of electricity problems decline, while the plan will make no more use of it until 2035. I think it's inevitable to wonder if it's acceptable. Many have considered how important it is to achieve electricity between areas, from manufacturing site and forward to and around the system and the island area specifically referred to as the lack of electricity for generation and development of new enterprises for cleaning. Of course, it is urgent to correct matters. It is also very important to look to the northeast corner and the ringlinks there, I'm talking about the Redfares, Thords, and a farm of weapons, which is one of the areas in extremely limited safety. There have been other issues that are important for the discussion, including A national structure that is indeed a key to achieving better reconciliation for the structure of the system than for the planning process. I agree with those who have discussed the importance of this process, I don't know if we should say that the flow-lock system or in some way make sure that the systems work better together where you can make comments about the plans and development of the early estimates. I think it's very bad for the work structure, but it's just as good for a business discussion of environmental matters, to keep this discussion in its recent years. It won't hurt anything more than the environmental discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u130	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I agree with what. A member of the Parliament that it is very important to make the most of all national connections and the ring -linking mentioned by the senator is of utmost importance. But I would like to ask. A senator whether I have heard correctly that her emphasis was on the idea that these lines are going on the ground as much as possible. Then I wondered, " Do I think we should wait for a circle to be placed on the ground or to be better connected to the South Land with landlines? ' So what does that mean for users at the other end, users in the East? Increased costs are predictable, at least today, and also from what is stated in this synonym. Has the senator, e.g. is there any concern that the fishery factories that today prefer to drive oil instead of electricity will continue because electrical prices will rise?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u131	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson for the counter-sponsored. If this is the way my case has come to pass, it is good to have the opportunity to correct it. I stressed that we use the best available technology according to circumstances. There are not necessarily ground strings at any given time. However, earth cables have caused revolution in the distribution system across rural areas. But that doesn't mean it's the best technology for the main transport system. That's not what I meant at all. We cannot wait forever for a better solution and must decide what is best for us now. After five years, something else can be better, and then we can just change our mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u132	A respectable president. I want to thank the senator for a very clear and clear answer. It is very important that this voice is heard, we must not stop, not stop now, and wait for some new technology to come or something better. We need to continue to strengthen the distribution system by means of the technology we have today. If there's an airline, we'll go to the airline. We do not wait for a ground cord to be calculated in a region to be suitable or just to wait for it to get better. We need to get on with the power system right away. It may be that a system plan currently valid will be able to meet some expectations in this direction. But I have a little bit of concern that the proposal under consideration here will make it necessary for the system plan to be adopted in the light of the expectations or plans that are almost there. But it is very important that we agree that we must get started right away in strengthening the distribution system, whether east, north, or anywhere else, and I am quite ready to make it. A senator who has the tendency to fight for it. But I don't think we can at the same time rock the boat by waiting for a new technology, as I think it would be emphasised on in this council-sense proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u133	A respectable president. Thank the senator for the second answer. That's exactly what I stressed, that it was important to take the position. Who is she really now, technically? It's important that we do this very quickly and that we get started. Then I spoke of the need for constant work, so we didn't return to the position of waiting for some new technology to come into the market and stop taking it out, but that we were constantly observing the best technology available at any given time. The information should be provided, regularly, when government policy is submitted to the council, we should not call for it the following year. In itself, I have no knowledge of technology and I'm not going to go into it. Of course, we cannot wait. In 1972, when the electricity was connected to my home, it was all in the air. They are all in the ground now, and they are much better, both for those who have to fight the farm or for whom the electricity is received. In this area, however, all electricity fell into a very large area. Still, this occurs in rural areas where lines are not in the ground, as in the Shire, where people are repeatedly caught in the power of electricity. Of course, it all depends on the level of technology.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u134	A respectable president. This has been a very interesting debate today, and it has been clear that it seems to each person about the emphasis in the Senate arrangement. We now discuss government policy, and then it is our system plan as time set and tells us when we will do things and how. I'm going to start by asking that question up - assuming that a minister will come at the end and answer some of the questions that have been presented during the discussion if assistants take down that question - whether this Senate resolution proposal will have something to do with a plan. Will be the tone that appears here, i.e. to add an extra focus on the electrical cable, requiring that the current system schedule will be overrun, it will speed up new implementation, etc.? At the same time, it answers my question, "Do I delay the projects that obviously have to be carried on and had to go yesterday?'That's just the way it is. I'm concerned that this document can delay it, unless it has no effect on any other plans that exist. In some ways, I find some contradictions in the proposal. On the one hand, it is said that the lines need to be reinforced safely and effectively, making sure that all have electricity, etc. But in the same time there is a great deal of talk in the whole hall of the earth, which is today, and that is not seen of any thing; that I may know that they may be as cheap and as practical as air lines. But there's a passage that landlines are all over the place. Then you wonder if it is possible to talk about searching, so to speak, that you can keep the electricity inexpensive and steady and speed of achieving safety if it is the new technology to wait. I'd like to ask the highest possible question. Minister to the same thing as I came in answer to what. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir. In many parts of the country, e.g. On the east side, fishing factories are driving oil. Electricity is more expensive. Electricity is inadvisable. If we are going to set up more expensive ground lines or lines, are we going to tell them to continue the oil? Or are we going to take care of it? How should we turn to it? It is very important that those in the end know what is to come. I'm aware that the highest. Minister will not be able to answer all my questions, but I wonder if there is any possibility of delay in the programmes that are in effect about going to strengthen the electrical system, i.e. System plan. This may be a repetition from earlier times. A respectable president. The line lines across the highlands are discussed in section 4. Hv. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson began to explain this. I'd rather hear it from the highest. The minister of whether the highlands are just referring to the central highlands. It says here that there will not be an attack in line over the highlands. Does not the word "air " or" earth " refer to just a line? However, I would like to state that where natural wonders are or areas that we all agree to be valuable, we must take the more expensive course. If I recall correctly, I saw a presentation that if you went over a explosion field today, it would be a couple of hundred miles that you could park in the ground there. Then you wonder: " If you can't cross an explosion field, if it's part of the highland, I don't know the definition, we're going to sliding over with air lines or an earthline? There are these things I feel like they're missing. On page 18. 2 at 11th point, it is said to ensure that, where possible, the appropriate transport and distribution materials are provided. I'd like to be a bastard and ask the Minister when to offer the cost of transport and distribution prices. When is the situation where we say, "Hey, yeah, let's make this expensive, 'cause we have to protect it? It may be in a place where the value is such that we all agree on it. But it can hardly be hundreds of miles or thousands of square miles of territory that are classified as a fairer, at least if I don't see it in my mind, it can be that way. Then I'm going to remind you that rural society and businesses in the country cry out loudly because their energy security is secure. This document cannot delay it. It is also spoken of here as looking into economic, social, and environmental effects in the structure of the transport system. I'm gonna let myself say that I really hope that it will be the result of community influence, at least at the position number 2 in the row, for I am totally overexcited as to how it is nearly ignored. working on a frame plan. Its social effects are virtually expressed in corners. I'm going to go on through this document. It is true that technological advances have been made in electrical cables and such. But are they such that it is safe to focus on them, as seems to be done here? I'd like to ask the highest, too. Minister one question. The B team of the proposal refers to research and analysis, high text of parties, irrespective of etc. Isn't this the role of the Power Agency today? Or is it a misunderstanding in me that Power Institute plays a research role when it comes to energy, which is discussed in the B team, research and analysis? Then there's the cost, which I've been a bit preoccupied with today. It suggests that earth cables may be worth up to twice as much as air lines. If we have to agree on what I'm not saying, we must have to answer who should pay that difference. It's the highest. A minister suggests that the consumers will pay the difference, or is there any other way? At the end of the fine plate, it is impossible to carefully evaluate the cost of an opportunity from a ceiling to a ground cord. Of course you can't. We really don't know much about the ground cord, i.e. How much they cost in that other area! However, if we are using the emphasis tangiblely in an earthline, we must still have to answer that question, even if it was only an inaccurate, what an estimate of the total cost may be based on some assumption. I miss not seeing it in the paper. But it may also be possible that later light will be seen in another place. A respectable president. I'm already done with my speech lesson. I didn't mean to be just a part of him, but that's the way it is. It is very important that the employment committee carefully reviews this clause and that a minister will be open to review what needs to be considered. There are many questions that I do not know about, especially about the translocation or the idea of large increases in earth cables. I also worry that if you stick to your ceilings and don't cross the defined highlands, it will call for a huge increase in cost to users or to someone else.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u135	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's talk and discussion today. I agree with what. A senator says that this has been an interesting discussion. Many interesting things have happened, even in the past. A senator in answer, including to me and others. I just want to continue talking about the cost of land cables, which are common. A senator entered his talk and answered me earlier. I find this very interesting question to take on regarding the cost and then who should live up to it. I know why. A senator is a matter of fact, but I can see no better than that the section of the proposal here is completely in harmony with the government's interpretation of electrical lines adopted in May 2015. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson voted for them. What was the discussion then? Hv. At that time, a senator was in a position of government. I'd like to ask you what. That's what a senator's got to do with it. Was there a discussion then? Government stuff and what. A senator said yes to that suggestion. Was there any discussion as to how the cost of fixing a ground cord could be paid, who would really pay it? Because they really agree, these chapters. We don't always have to come up with the bike. Right away. By 2015, did a senator vote for the proposal, having thought something into it? Was this discussed, perhaps even working further on it?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u136	A respectable president. That's a very good answer and a good question. At the time when the matter was being discussed in the government sector, of course, there were doubts as to whether this could be the case. I remember we discussed it in the council. It was quite clear, however, that our message to the Minister back then was that it could not land on the users. I think everybody agreed on that. But I readily admit that there was no solution on the table. I can imagine that if this is the conclusion that someone is planning to go this way, it's possible to create some sort of battery that will make this happen. You can see here that if I remember correctly, there's gonna be some digran resource fund set up here. It was always said that when people had a desire to move electricity out, they would be so healed that they would see to it that electricity prices did not raise people and companies if they had gone. I hope all that nonsense is out of the picture. The solution was not found then, but the discussion was exactly the same. I think the message is the highest. At the time, a minister received a reminder that this was not to be done unless it was absolutely certain that it did not happen to users. I'm like everyone else, willing to discuss a solution if they're available on this matter. But this is usually true of poor employment, weak communities, weak communities in many countries that are trying to build up themselves professionally and basedly. These people cannot be expected to carry the extra expenses.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u137	A respectable president. Thank you. A very good answer from a senator. Especially was I pleased with the choice of words. A senator must talk about the possibility of extramarital activity that would be exposed to this ◯batiter's appearance. I find it most fitting in this electrical debate, and I came up mostly to commend others. A senator for that. But I find this very interesting discussion. If there is an increase in costs, users will be affected in areas that are most vulnerable, such as whales. A senator points out. But now we watch, for example. the enterprise of the Landsnet, which is owned by a distribution owner, all owned by the public. Is it something to consider, that the high cost simply fell on the public property company? I see the face of the dog. A senator says he doesn't like the idea. It would be necessary for a government fund to deposit some money there. Maybe we'll watch. has a special fund? That it'd go through a living agency? I'm very grateful. A senator for putting this point in such a good way because we really need to be included in the job committee. We don't have to get in a position where we don't have time to go environmentally because it ends up costing consumers, and I'm talking about within the range given here. Then we're supposed to find a way to stop the cost from landing on consumers. I'm just a little worried that if there's no such thing, if environmentalism is going into an earthline, it'll affect the way it's going to be chosen.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u138	A respectable president. Although I mentioned something to handle this, I'm not particularly impressed with the increase in the number of institutions and bonds in the state. I think it'd be easier now to cut them down. But it may well be, given that this is the way to go, that this place can be found in some device available today. I think it's very difficult to put this on Landsnets, at least like the law and the rules are about that business today. I just don't think that's gonna work. I'm thinking, in fact, that if there's not some particular natural phenomenon, the cost to the users should be watched. That's what I think. But I also feel that we have to look at those who own land, private countries, and other places to go through. They need to be better and better consulted. It is not by nature that a person simply carries a line or a body cable through the ground. It may be more skinline than airline. All of this is a matter of balance. I'm just worried that this non-contraction proposal isn't - it's ugly to say that it's not well thought out enough, but I think it needs to grow better, so I just put it that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u139	Madam President. First, I want to thank you very much for a very interesting discussion today. It is clear from the discussion that most of us are on a similar line, i.e. that we would like to increase power and speed to be put in the structure of the distribution system. So we must want to make them want clearly into policy. We need an active discussion of the position we are facing in the electrical transport system. We need to set clear goals on how we want to see the electrical power system build up. However, as I came in before in opposition, there is a system plan to implement ways to get the council's will done. Like it's now, it's all focus is missing. It is not enough to present reports and mention if not to be performed. I think we can agree that Landsnet's current ten-year strategy and three-year strategy are way too slow. It is simply too slow, and the plans are just a little bit blunt. Clearly, if we are really going to make something happen, we need to change our methodology somehow. I mention, for example, a mixed line that has been in the process for about ten years, and it's probably still about eight or ten more years before it comes. Sadly, the power of the electrical transport system seems to be in complete trouble. We really need to settle over options that are possible and see if there are no more practical means of making sharper equipment for the lineworks. One way is, of course, that the council lays clear lines in this policy, and we might go so far as to consider specific legislation to establish infrastructure, such as linework, ports, road maintenance, and airports. Such a law could determine years of issues that no one can afford. Finally, I want to take advantage of this opportunity and draw some attention. Congress and other audiences, according to electricity law, no. 65/2003, and so pleasant that just earlier this week, the Landsnet ran a assessment of that schedule and is postponed to submit comments and comments on it on March 5. I would like to encourage all who have such comments or suggestions to take advantage of the opportunity and do so. We may also be able to complete the council's discussion of this resolution rapidly and effectively so that it will make its mark on Plan 2018/027. Madam President. Finally, I have to stress the importance of the fact that the council uses this opportunity to establish a real public policy on the structure of the electronic transport system to meet the needs of society for sufficient access to electricity and the best possible efficiency of the electrical energy system. Similarly, with clear aims, the system must be equipped to prepare for the planned energy exchange in transport, fishing, and industry. Such a course would also be in harmony with the UN's global objective. 7 of sustainable energy focused on ensuring all access to safe and sustainable energy at controlled prices. Increased target structure also supports the goals and actions of the government in climate and realize that there is much to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u140	Madam President. I want to thank you for this discussion today. I've heard a few of them have a sledgehammer. Congress officials have come to feel that they were good, and I have felt that the discussion was very rich, objective, and good. I'm glad to hear it. It may be those who have participated in the discussion that have also mentioned that I feel like a pretty clear line that the council puts here. It's now going to the employment board, as well as to see the Environment and Transport Committee and, of course, reviews and things, but I've really enjoyed these discussions. I'd like to mention a few things. I'm not sure I've managed to write down all the questions, but there are a few things I'd like to come in on. I mentioned in the first, second or third answer, I can't exactly remember what I said, but I just wanted it to be clear to avoid a misunderstanding that the Landsnet does not work in a competitive market but is part of its owners, Landactivation and PGE Reykjavík, which does. This was followed by questions from what happened. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy, who asked if we could simply post funding in particular into the Landsnet, I expect, so we could see the projects that we believe are important going on quickly. It is not expected that the government will directly fund projects in the transport system because the Landsnet has its own license under the law to run the transport system and Power Institute sets up a Landsnet pay limits. These companies control Landsnet's registrations to customers. But I'm afraid to tell whether or not we have the authority to do it. I'm not going to claim it, but it's not expected. There are a few factors. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson came in. He often mentioned a ground cord and that it was being greatly increased. I'd like to make a decision with regard to this synopsis proposal, but it's just the same thing. However, we are proclaiming that we are going to have tests to see if we can do so in greater quantity. It is with regard to the things that we specifically call; how practical they are, what is in them for us, etc. Of course it's always about balance. It's not that I can come here and tell you what the only right way is. We simply make a wide range of evaluations as to what is worth paying for. Right away. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson asks, e.g. If we're going to have this predator, it's just a question of what's expensive. We'll make different evaluations. Of course, it can be spoken of in kronos and pennies, but it can also be provided on a certain basis - sometimes it is a matter of quality of life, sometimes economic assessments. We also have other employment practices that interact with one another, what other opportunities may be open to other professions. Here, for example. can be named tourism, tourists, what does that give us, what are we willing to pay for? Sometimes it is not about crowns but simply about quality of life, for what we are willing to pay. It was often mentioned here as whether consumers should pay. In the case of two high stock costs, it is since 2015. It's not being suggested here, but it's the same thing. Then we'll take it up to a year after we've had these tests done. Of course, the industry is the biggest customer of Landsnet. When it comes to home, especially in the country, or small companies, the homes are that I understand about 5% of all of this. It has, of course, enabled us to build this system that we have. I just wanted to say something. The question was, should the Power Institute not just investigate this, why were we suggesting that it be done by independent sources? An energy agency is in the base of a surveillance provider and is not its role in specifically studying a ground cord. But it is our decision to make sure that this work is done. The system is, of course, supposed to be up to date. It's not free. It's not free. Of course, there's always someone who pays. We are making a decision to try to find a balance between what we are willing to pay and how much we are willing to pay. We certainly make different evaluations. That's why there's not one line in it. It's all about balance. That is why, as some generally feel, this must be a balance between economic, social, and environmental factors. Which we reevaluate, which is why this matter comes into the chamber. I'm glad it's here, though, and we're discussing this, which will affect the system plan. Here are democratic elected senators, agents, who we think are important in discussing the importance of carrying out this work. Therefore, what this will look like after Congress treatment is important. That's the message to follow. I'm particularly glad that a large combination seems to have to be building electrical transport systems. Therefore, I also rejoice to remain in the seat of a industrial minister and to work for the government covenant that is now being carried out. Because it has clear lines, we're stressing the structure of this thing. And so I mention it again, to my mind, we need to first agree on the importance of their internalisation, this community lifeline, and that all residents, wherever people are going to start business, have the same access to it. I'm not saying that men may disagree, but I've argued that there may be some lack of understanding that this is not the case today. It's number one. Then we need to trust those who do these things. All of us can do better in that they have greater confidence. So, number three, we need laws and regulations to support that all of this is possible. I've felt that we were in too much trouble focusing on the rules and the rules, but not necessarily on and trying to put our arms around the first and second. That's a prerequisite for this to work. Of course, for many years, we need to look at how difficult it has been for many years to trust the electronic transport system in our country. That's why I like the voice that is being heard here. We agree that this must be done. We differ greatly in our assessment of the value of not placing air lines, for example. I found it interesting to listen to what was happening. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, who wants to thank him especially for his extensive, colorful speech. He certainly has a lot of knowledge about the group of languages. Nor is a ground cord always the same as a ground cord. Of course, people go to very different areas. At least it's my opinion that it may also say that people simply have a different view of this, just as some people think it's important, but we all have different opinions about what names are beautiful and who not, while I think politicians should just not have an opinion of what names are beautiful and who are not. But there is another discussion. But then I also feel all right: I think that sometimes it's better to watch a line that doesn't interfere irrefutablely with soil. All of this plays together. Likewise with wind mills. There is still another discussion that, yes, to answer the question. paritaprevir A Trausti Guðmundsson, a work in long-term energy policy that is also something we would not expect to see happen somehow, so after a few years, we look over the country and the windmills are everywhere, but we're getting together in some area where they're inhabited in considerable quantity. Finally, because I'm running out of time, I want to thank you for the discussion, both committees wish to work with the subject and work on the comments that come. My outlook on life is positive, and I have strong faith that the council will be able to complete it. I think the council needs to show that this is how it works and that it finishes. For it will be returned, as was suggested when this was entered into the law, to the work that then takes place, which is, e.g. System plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u141	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to legalize the construction law, No. 160/2010, with subsequent changes. The bill has been cooperated with the Agency and the European Union of Iceland and has passed through open introduction procedures and consultations. In the past three years, the Environmental and Resource Ministry has been working to change the ministries of humanitarian activities in order to reduce the cost of ministries and simple management in that area. Part of that work consisted of extensive changes in construction regulations that were solely access and traffic routes as well as the inner space of workers, resulting in increased scope for design export. However, this was designed to ensure that the aim of human engineering to ensure bioavailability for all was maintained. The changes made in the construction order recently, and I'm not getting any further involved here, have been aimed at reducing the cost of building. The basis for all the work is the Government's declaration from May 28, 2015, of the arrangements to pay for the preparation of collective agreements, which even had that. aimed at lowering construction costs and simple management of human activities. The bill is also part of the government's work programme on housing from June 2017, as well as in harmony with the existing government covenant, which is expected to be overrun by a construction government. In the preparation of this bill, the main focus was placed on the simple administrations due to the publishing of the application and the approved construction plans, the simple management of industrial champions and the increased flexibility, the simple monitoring of the period of construction, including by initiating increased internal monitoring instead of external monitoring, as well as checking the quality monitoring programme, streamlining management for design tools and streamlining the building manager rules. In addition, there are some proposed changes in order to sharpen or further explain certain laws of the law. The bill suggests that there will be a demand for special copies of man - made engineering and that the obligatory declaration of responsibility by the master of steel, playwrights, painters, and wallpapers would require permission. However, it will still be forbidden to initiate the to-dos requiring special emulations without having been approved or to start the tasks requiring the arrival of a particular statesman without having their declaration of responsibility. However, this does not include quality requirements. The advantage is that the start of a project can begin sooner, reducing the cost of implementation. At the same time, there is saving to have a chance of finishing a job sooner than later. Then there is the cost of designing during a period of construction, which can also lead to a reduction in cost and efficiency that the workers need to be hired and recorded until their to-dos become available. The bill places increased emphasis on the internal surveillance of designers and industrialists and documenting the results of quality management monitoring, as well as increased emphasis on quality management and the responsibilities of the developer and design manager. It is suggested that the principle be provided by a building manager who takes a prisoner instead of a permit group member and that measures will be carried out by a permit squad or a laboratory. It is also suggested that, under certain circumstances, the construction manager can provide another authority on the basis of the assessment. The aim of these changes is to contribute to the efficiency and streamlined management of both the review of design tools as well as the official monitoring of performance time. The transport of internal monitoring, mainly the preparation of the target and the registration of data, to the construction manager, does not reduce the quality of monitoring. Instead, the objective is to focus the main focus on effective monitoring where needed, i.e. with those who have not met the requirements of sample reviews or when their quality management systems do not meet the requirements. With increased emphasis on internal surveillance for the construction manager, secondary costs due to official monitoring can be prevented. The applicant does not have to wait for the assessment of the allowante in order to be able to proceed with projects at the relevant costs. It is also suggested that the manager of the construction manager be present on behalf of a building manager, such as illness or vacation, which can prevent the delays and costs involved. The bill suggests that the terms of the leave-of-part professionality of the legislators are suspended in view of the assumed that the building managers will be assigned to the main policy. This change also results in a decrease in cost. Finally, the bill sharpens the requirements for monitoring of the Agency's activities by designers, construction managers, and industrialists without any physical change, as well as for the more trust in the level of minor projects that are reportedly related according to the order of building regulations. A respectable president. I've traced the bill's main subject. I suggest the bill be after the 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u142	A respectable president. I recommend a Senate resolution on barriers and, in effect, my response to an illusion bill submitted to the last term, in order to be perfectly clear. That bill was to add a law of prison which I consider unnecessary because all violence to children is concerned when imprisonment and the problem remains the same, i.e. The problem is with the treatment and the solution. The interpretation proposal reads: ▪ The Council of Justice concludes to hide the Minister of Justice to provide a bill for changes in laws relating to the management of the county body as well as to ensure the funding of the project with the objective that parents and children do not have to wait for action on the part of the county. In particular, consideration should be given to ensuring a shorter treatment period of 47 grams. a Children's Child Treaty on temporary success in behalf of a child, that the interests and rights of children in regard to the United Nations Children's Covenant will be simplified and made more effective, that there will be treatment-related, that a repeat violation of a dealing agreement will not be treated as a new matter, and that it will be easier to get a bribe. Action program and bill are required no later than at the beginning of the Fall Council of 2018. Children's rights and protection are required on the one hand in child protection laws and on the other. Two. 1st par. It is recommended that the best of children always take priority when making decisions on the subject. In 1st. 1st par. Children's protection laws say that children have the right to protect and care. They should enjoy rights in line with their age and development. The objective of this synonym is to ensure the well - being of the children, number one, two and three. Let's make it perfectly clear. According to 1st mg. 2.g. The same law is the purpose of the law to ensure that children who live in unsatisfying circumstances and children who have health and development risks are provided with needed help. Thus, the aims of the Icelandic law on children and children's protection are primarily aimed at ensuring the rights and protection of children. The same is true of the United Nations Children's Covenant. Section 3. He says that what is best for a child always comes first when public, private, administrative, government, or legal institutions take steps that concern children. Despite a noble objective, current legislation and administrative services are not insured by children's rights. This arrangement aims to improve legislation and administration in terms of children, with the objective of promoting better measures to ensure child rights and protection, to ensure the well - being of children. One of the main problems in the management board when it has access to illusions is that measures offered are very slow. That is how the county's case is very long, so there is little force to it, and it is not suitable for the issue to be resolved. The parent considered to be an illusion can use this long court treatment period to maintain the illusion, even when it is unjust. The interviewer told me that he trusted him to maintain an illusion for five years, that would be no problem. It's unacceptable. A more quicker option would benefit all the causes, both parents who hinder the parent's availability in good faith because of a reliable suspicion of the safety of the child and those who are unjustly deceived by the other parent and the child themselves. A faster solution to the situation will solve the uncertainty and improve the safety and status of all involved. Now it is important to consider a particular distribution. In these matters, it is not always black/white, true or false, whether there is right or wrong. Both parties can be right in some way. This is not just a parent's bait, and the other parent is an illusion or not. This goes over the whole gap between us, too. And there is often the time to help, since there is much emotion in these matters. This is about the parents'children. There is an enormous amount of emotion in this regard. When a relationship is put to the test, it can easily drive people along. Since time is often set for calming down and thinking clearly, the process of reconciliation, the treatment of reconciliation, is often given time to consider the problems and circumstances. However, time cannot be so long that parents or children especially, we are concerned that their well - being here, has to wait for the time of the system to be treated. It's what matters here, that the system doesn't make children wait for their release. By 33rd. 5 / 15 76/2003, parents are obliged to seek reconciliation before demanding a decision or to appeal to a case because of custody, lawhouse, association, crime, or conduct. This law was laid down, along with several other changes, in order to correct the case. Now, when there is some experience with the use and application of a covenant order and other adjustments made at the same time, a review of the effectiveness of the adjustment of the law should be made. It is reasonable to expect that these measures will serve their purpose and contribute to the better conditions of children and parents. Experience suggests that this may not be the case, so it is reason to consider whether further changes are needed. I think it's worth repeating that these cases are extremely sensitive. It is all about human relations, especially in situations where there is even divorce, and moods and feelings are very difficult to deal with. As indicated in this suggestion, the role of the system is to consider the child's well - being number one, two and three. It will never be possible to create a perfect system for everyone and for all things. Some issues are definitely more difficult than others. Despite the process of reconciliation, it is not a matter to be successful. It is not possible to assume that all issues will be resolved. However, we must do our best to offer the possibility of reconciliation and that parents and children always know where to turn. It is one of the problems in these matters that parents or children may not know where to look. They are even referred to by several members, police, child - welfare, child - care agents, back and forth. When a parent may come into a different situation to get children and obviously does not get his children out of the situation or vice versa, the parent may even break a relationship by refusing to get involved at that time. But everybody would think I'd admit there's a legitimate reason for that. It is very difficult to see who can give the parent permission to hinder this time. Based on the interviews I've been doing with this, it's pretty vague and really just looking through your fingers, the police do it, for example, on such a case. It's all very difficult. So I want to repeat the goal of trying to do better in the system we have to ensure the child's rights and well - being. That the system is not in the way. That's the most important thing. It's not easy, but it's an attempt to get in that direction. Therefore, it is suggested that the Council of Justice entitles the Minister of Justice to make changes in the law that will help correct the problem discussed here. Factors that a minister specifically considered are how to ensure a shorter treatment period in relation to the child's best interests at 47th. a Child's provision for temporary success, the keeping of children's interests and rights in regard to the United Nations Children's Convention, that the government's daylight strategy will be made simpler and more effective in use, that child support will be linked and that it will be easier to get a bribe. These factors can help to make adequate improvements in the category of languages, at least Just a little bit. These are the obvious defects that those who are familiar with the system see. That is what we need to focus on making adjustments. We don't fix anything by throwing someone in jail. Unless, of course, violence is involved. Then it's already legalized. It is then suggested that there be no future operation plans and legislation as early as the year the autumn Council of 2018. It is clear from this series of discussions that a number of individuals, parents, and children are waiting for their solutions and must be stressed that this case is being won quickly in behalf of children and parents who are waiting for their work in the present system. With the approval of the synonym's proposal to improve the environment and living conditions of children and families, it is suggested that the General agree to commit the Minister of Justice to make the necessary improvements discussed here. Finally, I suggest that the matter be addressed to the welfare committee, for the purpose of the proposal is to consider the welfare of children.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u143	Madam President. I recommend a bill to legalize social security legislation, No. 100/2007, about child support. Transporters besides me are nuts. paritaprevir Sæland Greand, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, Ólafur Ísleifsson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristoff, Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, Bjöl Leví Gunnarsson, Jón Þór Ólafsson, Brjánsson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, and Vilhjálmur Árnason. The bill is as follows: After 20 p.m. New article, 20. a, as well as a heading, as follows: Children's pensions for special expenses. The government's insurance agency can make a special contribution on the basis of expenses at the baptism of a child, bar mitzvah, glass wash, dental treatment, disease, burial, or for other special reasons. Implementation 1.mg. can only be decided if the businessman has decided on such a donation according to a request to be sent within three months of the return unless there was a reasonable reason to wait on such a requirement. For reference funds due to the requirement for special donations the same rules as those given for special expenses. Section 60. baby law. This law already comes into effect.◯ According to one report, some 900 children in Iceland who are now ages 0◯18 have lost a parent. Baby pensions are paid with children under 18 years of age, if a parent is dead or is a senile, disability or rehabilitation pensioner. Single parents can also apply for a child's pension instead of stress if a father's child cannot be fathered. Could e.g. are for assisted reproduction techniques. From January 1, 2017, children's pension is 31,679 k. every month with each child or with 380.148 k. every year. According to the 60th paragraph. Children's Law, No. 76/2003, a coordinators may be ruled to provide payment on the basis of baptism, bar mitzvahs, glasses, dental, disease, or burial. Other reasons may also be the basis for such initiatives, but only if they are special rather than universal, as regular cohesion payments are meant to be the source of a child's general progress. The Ministry of Justice provides guidelines for the management of budgetary values for specific donations and is to be updated annually according to the index of consumer prices. According to reports of the 2018 county website, the sum is considered appropriate, as follows: Seventy-four thousand, nine hundred and twenty-five thousand. due to priapism, $19,000-24,000. for baptism, Seventy-two thousand, six hundred and twenty-five thousand. For burial. No instructions are given on the basis of other proposals listed here. However, the same source does not include paediatric pensioners, since the situation is the same as that of one candidate carrying the heat and weight at all costs. Transporters believe that this means that children of single parents are discriminated against, i.e. depending on whether both parents or others are alive. Two. The United Nations Children's Covenant shows that all appropriate measures must be taken to ensure that a child is not discriminated against, e.g. because of their parents'position. Such discrimination is also opposed to the ideas of an equal rule 65. g. Iceland's constitution. Transporters of this bill believe that it is here that discrimination between children who have lost another parent and that comparable clearances will be established in social security laws in order to allow candidates to request additional child support for special expenditures. The bill points to the same viewpoint as the one used for the evaluation of an additional produce that will be applied to Article 60. baby law. The request for such a donation should be directed to the businessman who determines whether an additional donation should be made by the state due to specific circumstances. Madam President. I have a letter dated March 21, 2016, which was sent to the Children's Director. Its contents point to the law of discrimination among children. The letter is from an organization called Lion Heart. It's an organization of people who have lost their mates. This letter includes the following: To the end of each year, about two thousand Icelanders die, and based on the Icelandic Hausti figures before 2014, there are about 7% of those between 20 and 54 years of age. Thus, in 2014, 2,049 people were killed, of whom 145 were in the age range of 20 in the early days of 2014. There is no question about how many children under 18 will lose parents each year, but based on the average number of women in their lifetime, 1.9 children, there are 275. Then there are the countless among the children and teenagers who leave stepparents or foster parents. The Lion's Heart Association points out in the letter that, according to current law, the issue of discrimination is unmistakably based on the status of children of single parents, i.e. because whether they have either one or both parents alive and exactly stress that such discrimination violates Iceland's constitution and points to 65th paragraph. where it says that the law is equal to all. The Synonyms also refer to the United Nations Children's Covenant, 2 Peter 3: 13. G., mentioned earlier, says by permission of the president: ▪ In each Member State, take appropriate measures to ensure that a child is not discriminated against or punished by the position or actions of his parents, lawyers or family members, or viewpoints they express or their opinions. I'd also like to introduce and quote an article that appeared in the reactor a while ago, which has been interviewed by a woman, Bergþóra Heiða Guðmundsdóttir, who suffered the loss of her husband when she was only 39 years old. They had three children together during their care age. She says that she soon learned that their children were not equal after the shock. I'm gonna let me read a few chapters from this article. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ Bergþóra Heiða, or Heiða as she is often called, is a lawyer educated. She criticizes that the circumstances of those who lose their mates are not sufficiently sensitive to them. It says that the law is not reasonable in this respect and that it causes discrepancies between children who have both parents alive and those who have lost their lives. She says that people change when they hear her story and when she explains how the system works. She knows that talks were sent to the generals and that these matters were tried to draw attention to themselves. ▪ On the other hand, people in my situation do not have the spirit of competition, as Heiða says. It is not easy to fight for rights when the situation is so difficult and the grief is intense. [...] The law does not allow for additional legal support if there is heavy weight a year and no one pays a single parent for all that happens. Heiða specifically says that she is thinking about the children of parents who are especially dead. That's what's going to happen. When Heiða lost her husband, they were building up financially while living abroad at that time. As we have seen, they had three children in their care age who made the propaganda difficult for Heiða. She says that despite some differences in her story, since she did not live in Iceland when she was a widow, she still began to seek her rights soon after the shock. She learned that the State will be a cohesor of a mate's death, but such payments are called child pensions. - As mentioned earlier. However, in the case of widows or widowers, it is not possible to get double children's pensions, nor would it be possible for the State to meet people in special cases where financial resources are needed. Furthermore, the reactor article states: ▪ Heiða's not easy to finance one - year - old dental dishes, Bars, car tests, and so forth, but unlike single parents, she cannot apply for special donations when appropriate. She feels that this is a violation of children and that the law is interpreted by the insurance agency so that they are not entitled to further contributions. She feels that equal to the law, but when it comes to widows'children, that is not the case. Such is the way of discrimination and punishment for their children's circumstances. A parent in this situation may do his best but get very limited help from the government. Only those who have good backlands and high wages can live up to the high cost of providing for children. Heiða, for example, knows that people who have lost their mates have grown weak and had to rely on their own disability and that money worries have been difficult to deal with as a result of their grief and loss. [...] For these reasons, Heiða says that she wants to tell her story; that these situations do not meet people sufficiently and that there is a mistake between rights and rights of children. ▪ This is not going to work out. Some children are missing because of this legal error, and she says it is. It points out that in 2 C.E. The United Nations Children's Covenant says that all children should have rights regardless of race, manner of color, sex, tongue, religion, political views, tribalism, disability, social status, or other circumstances, or the activities of their parents. Finally, Madam President: They need a wake-up call. Is it not enough that these children have lost so much weight and then have to face the Heiða? Clearly, the influence of parents'death is enormous, and it feels that society should help those who are in bad situations, that the country should be supportive of people who are painful and especially their children. That is what I hope to say, or I suppose, Madam President, that the case will go on to what. The welfare committee. I hope the committee is able to resolve matters quickly and safely. It looks at least It's like I see this that there's simply a hole in the current law structure, i.e. There are discrepancies between child - care laws and child - care laws. It may be found at the opinion of the Committee that more is needed to correct this error than is suggested here. I hope that the case has a good turn. The welfare committee is able to handle it at this assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u144	A respectable president. I'm one of the partners of the bill. I'm all for it. I want to come up and discuss one part of it. That's what we're talking about children who've lost one of their other candidates. Often this is what happens in accidents, e.g. Road accidents, work accidents, stuff like that. The saddest thing about it is that the damage laws treat such matters very badly and add very little, not really at all. I'd say it's the next thing we have to deal with. But as long as the situation is so bad, I have every reason to believe that this bill will pass and will follow through on a welfare committee. As I'm saying, it's hard to believe that this is the case in Iceland that if someone gets hit, it's possible for the person to live in poverty. It is not enough for people to cope with grief and hardship; it is somehow built into the system that they should be rescued even if they are unable to cope financially. We know it's like this in Iceland that as soon as the rest of the work is gone, things are all out of order. That's why this is a very important matter, and I support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u145	Madam President. Thank you. A senator and my associate, Guðmundur Ingi, son of Kristinsson, are very grateful for their counter-sponsored support. In itself, I have few things to say but that I'm pointing it to. When considering the matter, the welfare committee considers the point. A senator points out a certain degree of failure, as it were, of damage laws in the event of an accident. I don't know if there may be other discussions that may require a second bill, that can be considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u146	A respectable president. The bill to correct the change of social security law, as its importer, well. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, suggests here, is an attempt to cope with the challenges she pointed out, as up to 900 children in Iceland from 0 to 18 years of age who have lost parents. Such matters are to be supported and fully in line with the basic policy of the Agency for equal opportunities. Hv. A senator admitted that this was one possible example of how many people could handle this group of subjects. I'd like to mention another thing. The bill does not come into play with the problem of 1 0kt. Regulations on implementation of Member States and other alimony programmes may create. In this article, the president's permission states: The Agency shall provide young people between 18 and 20 years of age with a contribution to education or training if the youth submits the decision of a businessman or a contract confirmed by him that the parent should make it a contribution for education or training. The application should include proof of education or training. Madam President. Such an article does not address the problem when both parents cannot, according to the county's decision, pay such a pension. Example: One parent has died and the other parent has died, e.g. An invalid or low income that is not enough for education to be paid. Now both parents can be desperate or poor income, and that is not to be true, Mrs. President, to limit the opportunity of a youth to study in its delicate formative years.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u147	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator is eager for his speech and his support of the case. In itself, I have no particular question about the senator's speech, but I would like to underscore what the senator said, there is a particular point that I consider very important. The welfare committee will consider when discussing the bill. I'd like to give it a lot of emphasis.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u148	Madam President. I would like to propose a synopsis of psychology services in public schools. The motion says so, with the permission of the president: The General concluded to hide the Ministry of Education and Culture to increase access to psychology services for students in public schools from and through the course of 2018-52019. At the same time, a minister seeks ways to promote psychological services in schools other than the public. Both will be done in consultation with the university itself, Iceland's Psychologist Society and Health Minister. Artists are down. The members of the people of the Þorgerður of Chalphin Gunnar, the daughter of Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Beb Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, the S. Guðjón Brjánsson, the son of Friðriksson, the son of Friðak, the Helgi man of France, the Hrafn of Gunnarsson, Sæland, Una daughter of Hildardóttir, and the Þorsteinn of Víglundsson. In the past, the proposal was made for a Council of 146 C.E., the first of which was Bjarni Halldór Janusson, a vice - council member of the Assembly of Reunion. It's nice to know that at that time he was the youngest senator who had taken his place at the highest. General. Madam President. A key reason why the synonyms are necessary is to consider the outcome of the matter. In the last few years, there has been a long period of timely and need for awareness about the importance of mental health and the seriousness and widespread consequences of mental problems without intervention. The restoration has had a great deal of good communication with the student movement on the issues involved in leading up to this synonym. They have shown us that improvement in this area is urgent, and the movement takes the problem very seriously. The Government Treaty states that there should be no special emphasis on prevention and human health and that the educational system is specifically referred to in that context. It also states that health care in high school will be promoted by the emphasis on mental health. Madam President. Of course, it is a joy not to promote mental - health activities in high schools, but the need for this proposal for Congress is just as urgent. The university is particularly important in view of the fact that the largest age group at the age of 18 in the United States is considered to be in the highest risk of mental illness. According to a European health study since 2015, more young women of that age were diagnosed with depressive symptoms in this country than in any other European country. The most common cause of death among Icelandic men aged 18 susceptibility to the age of 25 is suicide, but at least every year death occurs. six young men for suicide. According to a 2014 World Health Organization report, there is one of the world's highest suicide rates in Iceland. In 2013 49 people committed suicide, and a year later, a small number died at their own hands. The huge numbers tell us that it is important to identify and deal with depression at an early stage with accessible psychotherapy and preventive measures. In fact, it will not only save lives but also ensure better and more effective schooling in young people. An adequate psychology service is designed to eliminate all too common deduction of students from studies. Madam President. In June 2014, the White House Minister of Education and Culture for Education Improvements is found to be less than half, or 44%, of the high school graduates complete their studies at the specified time. It also shows that the elimination of Icelandic students is largely due to mental disorders. It is reasonable to assume that the same applies to university students. It may be reasoned that those who suffer from anxiety or depression still find it harder to get up in high schools that are usually large and that students are expected to save themselves and that students are more likely to be alone. When young people leave school, they bring up considerable social costs that can be measured in the face of harsh money, not to mention the damage to a person's life that will be cut off from school. A good psychological service provided in a progressive way where it is needed saves much long - term money for society. Saving the island and throwing it away is not considered good economics. Sadly, we have been doing so, for many individuals need to refuse this vital ministry. This results in more extensive problems and cost - consuming planning in later stages. Drug costs are subsidized, and disability improvements are paid because of mental illness, but most of the disability improvements are paid just because of such illness. With increased emphasis on mental health, especially in the school system, we will be able to reduce the social costs and save lives, but this alone should be reason enough to take action. Mr. President. This is a mistake made when a new president steps in a chair, but the president is here with gender adjusted. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Mr. President. Recent statistics from the United States indicate that, on average, over 1,400,600 students are conducted with each school psychologist in that country. According to U.S. school psychologists (NASP), there are no more than 1,000 students per school psychologist. If the school psychologist's role is not only to be diagnosed and counselling but also to provide appropriate treatment, it is recommended that there are no more than 500 to700 students per school psychologist. To put them in Icelandic context, it is proper to mention that at the University of Iceland, the largest school in the country, there are about 12,500 students. At that school one psychologist works half - time. There are no psychologists at work in other universities. Of course, this means that students of the school must seek assistance outside the school walls. Most suggest that many people refuse psychological services for economic reasons, especially young people with low income. A psychologist's time may vary from $12,000 to $15,000. Similarly, it will be common for an anxious and depressed person to have at least a minimum treatment period of 10 in a psychologist's place. As a result, bone expenditure due to such treatment accounts for between 1220,000 and 220,000 krs. In comparison, the sum is 220,000. approx. Thirty percent of the amount that LIN lends to an individual in a rented house to make up for each learning truth. Thus, it is almost impossible for a young student to seek help from a psychologist in view of the provision he has between his hands. Mr. President. Iceland's health insurance does not subsidize psychiatric services like other health care services. Young people now 18 years old have little choice when it comes to reaching out for spiritual health because they are not entitled to the same payment as younger ones. The colleges are full of young people. So it's an ideal setting to offer a psychological service until we are lucky to get the services of psychologists on the credit system. It is a long - term solution that is one of the challenges of restoration. Sadly, as mentioned above, there is a long way from obtaining adequate service within the university. The University of Reykjavík recently set up a psychological service for his students. At the University of Reykjavík, there are between 3,000 and 4,000 students, and there are two psychologists who still do not have the full - time ministry. All students of the University of Reykjavík find themselves without cost looking to a psychologist who will help them determine if they need further help and what kind of help. The university then offers a number of resources, such as mental behavioral treatments in a group of treatments at school itself, without cost to students. There, psychologists and Bible counselors come and can help with certain problems or direct students in the appropriate help of the health system. Of course, this is a wonderful program for the University of Reykjavík. To date, however, public universities have not taken similar advice. It's unacceptable. Public universities must be able to provide their students with comparable or better service. Mr. President. The aim of the proposal is to deal with the problems that arise when psychological services are not readily available. It is suggested that the availability of psychological services be improved and specifically suggested that psychiatric status be increased within public universities. There students have access to as much service as they can give at any given time. Mr. President. It is suggested that the case be referred to. The welfare committee will discuss and return to the council for a second discussion as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u149	A respectable president. I think we can all agree that psychology services in high school and college are important. So I welcome the proposal given here for public college psychology and as well as yesterday's proposal for psychology in high school. In fact, I can agree with all that was presented in a speaker's speech and what is presented in a paper with the proposal. However, I have doubts that psychology services are responsible for the education system and wondered if the decision should be made to a health minister who would cooperate with a higher education minister on operations. Therefore, I would like to ask the senator if he believes that psychological services should be part of the educational system or the general health system. Similarly, I would like to ask him if he believes that serving a mental - health youth ensures that the ministry is provided by the health system rather than by the school system, where it might be confined to school or related to certain schools. Third, I asked if a traveling overseer would be willing to direct that discussion with the proposal to the committee that the resolution would go to a health minister rather than to a minister of education.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u150	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It's totally interesting. However, the students in school are, and I think that there are teachers or students who first come to know if something is wrong. We have health care at school. We've got nurses and... The matter will be considered by the welfare committee. I think this may have to be part of the school system, but of course there are psychologists, they're not teachers, but this kind of service has to be in the school system at least to begin with, psychologists need to be at school for me, and I always think I should be. Then students can look outside the schools after service. I think the suggestion is just right at the top. Secretary of education. Although I understand it and there's something to consider, I don't see that the content of the proposal is not relevant to a well - being committee, since this has to be done in cooperation with school. The services given e.g. The University of Reykjavík is given at the school itself, not under the health department's hat.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u151	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. I would like to encourage a thorough examination of whether the system really provides the service. However, I completely agree with the senator that it is important that the services be performed within the schools, in part, at least I can see that even if a student needs a mental - health service to keep his service, he may well stop at school, and then he still needs to have access to the same service. For example, I mention schoolmates. They are health - care professionals, even though they render service at school. They do elementary schools, colleges, and others. Similarly, I believe this is one of the things that you could look at in working out your mental - health programs, working to figure out a solution for high school and college students, or really young people. It's good to hear those speculations. If the matter goes to a health committee, then health and well-being matters are there, as long as there are educational issues in the General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u152	Mr. President. I think me and what. A senator wholeheartedly agrees on the purpose of the matter, which is to add services to school youths who are facing such problems. I'm not going to stand in the way of the meeting being the best channel for the situation. However, in the context of the fact that a psychologist saw, for example, it is proper to point out that he is a psychologist. who are employed in the University of Iceland, even though only in half a job, the school worker is a health - care worker. But of course it needs to talk, I completely agree. I don't think it's desirable for school to solve all the problems. I think it's very important to do what it is like, for example. University of Reykjavík, at least. A reasonably powerful convention where students can communicate with professional people. So it continues to direct the students within the system. I don't think it's preferable to aim in itself that there is much clinical assistance or treatment in school itself, but I think it's necessary for students to have a easy access, that it's easy to interview a psychiatrist at their workplace or at their school and get the first food, first conversation, and second conversation. Perhaps the situation is so rapid that it can be solved in a relatively short - term way, with several conversations. Others are more difficult, and psychologists refer students to places where they receive better and more persistent service.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u153	Mr. President. It's an interpretation of this proposal, including... Yeah. paritaprevir Jón Steinar's son Valdimarsson is very familiar with this discussion. I've only established it before, but it was a major 2011 study in the university with over 1,600 participants. At that time, it was found that more than half of them did not attend appropriate health care because of expenses. In this conversation we hear repeatedly in Iceland, we like to have a Norwegian welfare system, all the way around the welfare system to the north. But we have an Icelandic tax system. If we are going to have a system comparable to those in the North countries, we need to make better use of the money, and we have to spend one dollar to save 10 bucks. This suggestion, this discussion, is exactly that way. One thing I'd like to say for a second. A senator. I was fortunate to be north of Akureyri at Grófin, the Institute of Mental Health in Akureyri, at an open meeting last year. It revealed that those who suffer from spiritual sickness or illness, such as colic. A senator spoke of, prefers to talk about mental challenges. I'd like to encourage you. A senator to accept that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u154	Mr. President. Thank you. The answer and the tip. I think she's right. I think that we, and as everyone, need to be careful about the language we use when talking about other people, now not talking about people who have some kind of challenge that may be more dramatic and less difficult. So I agree completely with the senator that we have to. Then I also thank the indication of this survey or an investigation he pointed to. The problem is very extensive. They need to deal with it. I called it in my story to save the island and to throw the crown, and I hope no one else takes up that quote, because I sometimes talk about Euro. I think this is the whole point. We need to be careful that we are not saving the island and throwing it away. I think we'll do it a little bit in this group, unfortunately. As shown in the report and in my speech, the damage, if not taken in time, can be so devastating. It's not only a lot of money, but it's also very big in the lives of the people who don't get the proper help quickly and well and to the caregivers, etc., so I think it's very relevant there. As all numbers show, this is a very serious problem we have to deal with.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u155	A respectable president. I've been through the organization I've come to know that in the past few years this disease involves mental health, as well as other matters. The most painful thing I feel about this is to know that you've lost friends in suicide because there's not enough follow-up, because the system is saving money. If we are going to make sure that young people of this land have the right to receive their medical care, this is a small step initially. Let's start over there. But it's just gonna be a little step to get these things right. It is not acceptable that there is so much cost in this system that people cannot afford to seek help. And the other thing is, there's about 13 of you. Individuals in the University of Iceland, and that's half the status they're supposed to take care of their mental health. We must do something about these matters right away because it is thought that about 30 people die each year. I felt that there were about six young people at that age who could probably be connected to something in college. Only one of them is much more than enough. Therefore, we need to make sure that everyone receives the medical care and mental - health care needed. It's just one small step.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u156	A respectable president. I recommend a judicial hearing on the review of XXV. in the general penal code. The lead is that in six sentences in 2012/2017, the European Court of Human Rights found that the decision of the European Court for the European Court is being made by the European Court of Justices on matters in which the alleged mismanagement of the media violates the 10th paragraph. European Convention on the Protection of Freedom of Expressions This provides evidence that there is a gap between the rights that we are assured of in international terms and the judicial decisions of the XXV committees. in the general penal code. Hence, they lay down members of the council, as well as those mentioned here, respectively. paritaprevir Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, Þorsteinn Víglundsson, Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, Andrés Ingi Jónsson and Karl Gauti Einar Hjaltason, made a pact proposal to reexamine the section of the penitential Court of Justice. The Parliamentary decree says, with the permission of a president: ▪ The General concludes to hide the Minister of Justice to have a review of XXV. No. 19/110, on the charges and violations of privacy in order to meet the 10th paragraph of the offense laws. The European Convention of Human Rights, as it has been used in the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. Ministers provide a bill to correct the conversion of XXV. a general penal law at 149. It is proper to state that this council arrangement was proposed earlier to the 146th legislature, and its first member was then inexorably. Prefect of Revolution, Tynes Sif Tynes. The report refers to eight judicial cases in common regarding references to anonymous individuals that they had committed criminal conduct, were under investigation, or were related to criminal activity. The Icelandic courts considered a judicial act without sufficient evidence, and they made judgments accordingly. In all eight cases, the media were ordered to pay damages and expenses to plaintiffs, as well as to the fact that the controversial comments were doomed and muncess. These eight cases were reported to the European Court of Human Rights. In six cases, the European Court did not consider the use of penalties to be moderate, as it is reserved in Article 10. The Convention of Human Rights. A respectable president. Information and opinions on social issues and the powerful activity of the media are the cornerstone of democratic communities. Such practices are also linked to spending money and time on the media. It is not always in deep pockets to pick up, especially in the Icelandic media market. I give special attention to the weight of the media, which is the majority of the available media. There is a significant threat to the democratic community if it becomes simple to silence journalists by waving in front of that lawsuit. Clearly, the environment in which the media live is not always the best choice. A recent ban, which recently fell apart, is a fine example of this. The media environment in Iceland, i.e. Their own private skills are yet another discussion. In fact, it was recently taken here in this hall following a recent report published through the environment of the individual media. I'd rather expect it to be the beginning of such a discussion. As members of the Parliament, we need to ensure that laws at any given time meet the requirements of the human rights covenant, and this includes uplifting old laws to reflect basic human rights, such as freedom of expression. The legal environment of the media must be so that they can fulfill their vital role in providing us who are involved in the work. In October 2017, the European Court of Human Rights issued a report on the freedom of communication between people in the United States in 20123/42017, a report prepared for the Council's Commission and Control Committee of the World Council. The key findings in this report were that in the first place, Icelandic courts did not always look to all the views they should take on according to the conduct of the European Court of Human Rights when it comes to evaluating the need for freedom of expression in a democratic society. In some cases, according to the report, Icelandic courts failed to decide whether the issues discussed in the media had been relevant to the public or not. The position and conduct of the individuals mentioned were not always taken, and in some cases they were neglected to take a stand on the media's performances, indicating that the media had done their jobs well and that they had been balanced in their discussion. In the cases discussed in the report, the European Court of Human Rights itself often assessed a controversial viewpoint, pointing out that it was not necessary in a democratic society to limit the freedom of communication by the media. To continue with this report, the European Court of Human Rights, in a few cases, came to the conclusion that it was against the freedom of communication by making it responsible for a comment made by anonymous interviewers. The court charged that in his judgments it had previously been concluded that strong reasons were needed to come to such cases for journalists to be held accountable. In the absence of such reasons, it was felt that the freedom of expression had been violated by the journalists and editors. Third, the Court of Human Rights found out what understanding the European Court expressed in various of the recommendations. It seems thus that the Court of Human Rights disagrees with the opinion of some of the above - mentioned material courts. The effect of this differing estimate was that the Court of Human Rights felt that the issue had not been as painful as the European Court laid the foundation. However, the comment would have been of sufficient support to information available to the media. Finally, Mr. President. Transporters point to the end of a paper with the Senate resolution on the following, with the permission of a president: It is essential that the application of the terms of the offense to conform to the requirements of such decision-making and the importance of reevaluating the mediators to ensure that the media's independence and in perfect accordance with the requirements of the Constitution and commitments of the international agreements, such as the European Convention of Human Rights. I have concluded my case, wishing that the case would be given quick, as well as a thorough and positive review at the highest level. General and Education Committee, I presume.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u157	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend the discussion much. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson for history and for providing the bill. It's the most necessary thing to do. I myself had a long time with the press, and I will always support everything that improves their working environment and will better ensure their freedom and the people working there. The Journal Society was now often discussing ethical standards and the scope of them. At times, I have believed that the only moral principle necessary to be is: Have what is proved true, quote the Ari of fróður. I cut it after a while. A member of the council referred to a report on the European Court of Human Rights, I think that I'm right about matters to address the public, and it would have been found to have something to do with the public. This term has spread to many people. Some feel that judges can actually decide whether or not to speak to the common people, in fact, the editorial authority of a media medium is in favor of a judge's authority. Because I so agreed. In his talk, a senator asked her if it is really necessary to expand it further or if it is never possible, whether courts always have to have the last word.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u158	A respectable president. Thank you so much for the counterweight and sharing with you. A senator is interested in the media environment. I've never worked anywhere longer than in the media, so it's very personal. This is a very interesting question, most likely the one in the most gray area, i.e. what discussion will address the general public. Then it can really be turned around because what the media can do and what they cannot do must be the basis for the discussion. If doing so is not a court of law, then who is doing so? I'm not saying it's easy, but we may need this big environment, and it won't be simpler -- I'm not going to do it. A senator working for the Internet's time, but it did the right thing here, but it will not be simpler or easier in time. Maybe that's one of those big ones. At least I can. told me that I think it is far better to get parties like the Human Rights Court to come with us into this and follow what they're working with in their super market and with a much larger and more complex case than we are on our market. I think this is one of the things I would encourage the highest. The Minister of Justice to consider when he hopefully makes this review. This is one of the big issues to consider and consider.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u159	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. I'll continue to agree. But this is not just said in the blue, nor is it a matter of philosophical speculation about the nature of parts, because it is the fundamental principle, of having business with the common people. It has often been a matter of refuge to say that some publicity is wrong. It is in fact, and it is being done in a way by the editor of the media. This may be necessary, as it were. A senator comes on, some say. Others say that this is not the way it should be. It should be quite clear, and there must be a complete offense, not even on the Mosaic Law, but directly on the general law of justice. I know it's a suggestion to change them. I'd like to ask you what. A senator on the Human Rights Court, I hear when she reviews that she has studied this matter very carefully. Yes, I did not work in the media before the Internet, unless the school school school in Kopavogi is considered a media medium. But have a why. A senator examines the development of these issues in the European Court of Human Rights? What legal environment is it working for? I'm not saying that we should go back to changing the legal environment that the European Court operates inside, but the media is one of the fastest in which each one has basically become his own media. Has a what? A senator's opinion? Has there been developments in that era?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u160	A respectable president. To tie this thing in on what is relevant to the public over the head, which is the key question in this, I think it can be approached so that everything has business and so is tight, rather than approach it because the press has to fight for every step that something has to do with it. I think it's far more expedient for democratic discussion and society. Regarding whether I've studied evolution, I'm not going to take it so deep in the years to say that I did it exactly. But I know one thing: The trend there has been considerably faster than the U.S. courts. It provides the basis for this suggestion. I don't have it any better than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u161	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for putting up this matter, which is interesting. Well, you must be quick to support it. 10th par. The European Convention of Human Rights deals with freedom of expression, one of the most important things in my opinion. I'd like to give you a little notice that I have, in fact, not to mention the subject of the bill but rather to the circumstances of the seminar, freedom of expression in Iceland. In 2010 the International Modern Media Institute adopted an IMI decree. She insisted that Iceland should become a leading, excellent source of information and expression freedom. Years passed, and as so often, things took a long time. But eventually four of these were presented to the Ministry of Education and Culture, which has not yet been submitted. I asked the highest. The Minister of Education and Culture to them the other day. We'll see what comes out of it. V.E.G. The prime minister has mentioned this work from time to time in order to inquire about related matters. These four bills were never submitted but then passed. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir invited them to Council 147. Now I've got me confused, and I don't have all of them, but one of them was a bill of delinquency, one of the other about detoxification of data and the third of hatred propaganda. These are issues that were intended to increase the freedom of expression in Iceland. Freedom of speech in Iceland is a little defective, both in the law and in my opinion on a judicial proceeding. Without hesitation, I allow myself to argue with the judge in that matter, to be said out loud. Since my teenage years, I have criticized the freedom of expression in Iceland. I think they're ridiculous on chapters. We often have the impression in Iceland that we are so liberal and Western and democratic, but sometimes it is simply not true. Sometimes we're patting ourselves for something we haven't earned. This is what the story has to say about it. For example, in Iceland so - called violent films were banned until the 21st century, a ban on the early 1980's, when videocassettes were becoming public, and people were terrified that people had the freedom to watch what they wanted. Guðlast, of all the things Iceland has thought of banning Icelanders, was banned in Iceland for the summer of 2015. That's what they're saying. It's a bill. It's a bill. It's a bill. Pornography is still under the Icelandic law, which is unique to my knowledge in Western democracies. There are some restrictions, some prohibitions against certain types of pornography elsewhere, such as those in Norway, but here pornography is simply forbidden, which is completely absurd, completely uninhabitable, and one of the factors that I find so strange to have to reason after the Middle Ages. But it's not the most serious legislation, though it's much of a prince's concern in my mind, a test of whether a community is a source of freedom of expression, really or not, on the foundation. But there are more serious problems with Icelandic law, e.g. the hate speech law, which is also in general penalties. Now I believe in myself that there should be legislation against hate speech. However, it is important to be good, clear, clear, clear, clear, and clear. She's not at all right now. It's best seen in recent Supreme Court hearings that I blogd around in my recent Icelandic expression freedom of speech once again. There were three comments on this subject. It was for one of them, and it was judged for the other two. If I were to read them up, and I didn't mean to do, I hope it calms the nerves, I doubt that any person could, except by his statistical luck, guess which of that statement was acquitted. The reason is that legislation is very uncertain, it is an overexcited estimate, it is simply overexcited to the emotional state of the judge at any given time. That's a comment. They're all disgusting, there's no disagreement about it, and they include great slander, and they're not role models. But it's unclear. We need to know what to say. That's basic. Even if we disagree on how much freedom of expression we want to have, we must at least know where it is. I don't think we know where it is. That, in fact, is one of the good examples of the Prohibition. First, as you mention pornography, everyone begins to blush and the second thing that happens is that people begin to scribble about the definition of pornography. I wondered: " What sense does it make to limit freedom of expression from a term that people don't even know? It is crazy, respectable president, completely crazy, and has nothing to do with the content of pornography. It only matters that this is clear. This council proposal is very good. It is of utmost importance that such reviews take place. I have to say, as it is, I hadn't thought of going that way, and I find it interesting, i.e. to revise this section of public penal law on the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. But at the same time, we're waiting for the IMMI premieres, we're waiting for the highest level. A president will explain only what the injections are about to promote and strengthen and ensure freedom of expression and information freedom in Iceland. It's all in a sense right now. That is why it is difficult to tell exactly which way you want to go each time. If it weren't for this situation, I would have accepted the invitation to be a associate to the case, and I will certainly support it. I'll be clear on this. At times, however, similar goals are being pursued at the same time. To say that, I'm the last man to want to do things my way and not like others. I expect this ideal idea, first of all, to be completely compatible and compatible with the projects that are already to be carried out by the European Commission. I hope so. But it would be good if somehow you could sew this together, at least to reach that goal. Then there's one thing I want to make up, because my views on freedom of expression often seem rather novel. I find the limitations of the current Icelandic constitutions allowing them to be too much, too large. For example, an expression in Iceland can be limited by a moral code, which is one of absolutely indistinguishable words, depending on who you speak each time. It is completely opaque and greatly reduces the protection of the arrangement. Really, anything can be said that is not in harmony with morality, e.g. blasphemy. A lot of people are going to be insulted by blasphemy. I understand that very well. But we do not have the right to hear something that offends us. It's not like that. We don't have that right. We shouldn't have it. We should not have the right to forbid others to view things that we view as personal and even harmful. However, the Icelandic Constitution allows several barriers to freedom of expression. As a matter of fact, I'm 10 g's. The European Convention of Human Rights does likewise. If, fortunately, I had no choice, I'd like to revise both the English Constitution's expression release and the 10th paragraph. The European Convention of Human Rights aims to increase freedom of expression and to reduce authority to limit it. But it's a totally political approach and something I realize isn't practical, at least in the near future. But as long as we have those objects, 73rd par. Iceland's constitution and 10th par. The European Convention of Human Rights, we must want things to at least fit in with them. In this regard, I agree with this fine subject. I'm not gonna have this any further. I think it's a good thing that I'm running out of time. But I wanted to give these opinions a basis for our discussing these fine matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u162	Dignified. I recommend a bill to legalize the change of public penalties, No. 19/190, prohibition on male circumcision. My importers are down. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Sæland Góland, Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Ísleifsson Isleifsson, Jón Þór Ólafsson, Kristinsson Irnsson, Linika Sævarsdóttir Savarsdóttir, and Buon Leví Gunnarsson. In 1st. The bill is suggested, by permission of the President: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. A sentence. 218 gr. a Worsening: Any person who is assaulted harms the body or the health of a child or woman by partial or complete removal of genital organs must be placed in prison up to 6 years. Two. says: "This law already comes into force. Mr. President. For some 5,000 years, it has been customary in many places to circumcise pedophiles of boys, on the face with general social approval and understanding of the rituals of certain religions, Jews, and Muslims. During the 19th century, there was a significant increase in the rate of circumcision when boys in general were encouraged to be circumcised to prevent various disorders and behaviors. However, juvenile circumcision is not limited to Judaism and Muslim religions. They are, for example. relatively common in Christian countries in Africa and in the United States. So a link between religion and circumcision is not at all absolute; it is also a social custom or tradition. In this context it can also be noted that the person here has received a number of letters and messages after the bill that is now discussed became a public document. Most messages I received from Israelite Jews who support the bill and express that within their community there is a growing movement that wants to destroy the practice of maiming young boys in the name of religion. Some letters are from parents who regret having circumcised their boys, others from parents who say they had not circumcised their sons, and some letters from older men who were circumcised when they were boys. They tell me that they had not been circumcised, that they had a choice. The operation has caused many of the pain and physical problems throughout their lives, which, of course, are terrible. Hence, it can be concluded that the practice of circumcision is not bound to individual religions and within religions where circumcision is generally not a unit of continuation. V.E.G. President. In other cases, reasoning on the subject is that it is a religious ceremony; however, there are medical reasons for the procedure. The Children's report includes the following: Reviewing basic evidence from those who say that there are medical benefits of surgery is more than a defect. The argument of circumcision includes that surgery may prevent new-born infants from getting infections of the urinary tract, prevent cancer of the penis, prevent sexually transmitted diseases, and prevent the transmission of HIV. The objections and arguments of those who wish to execute circumcision on boys are as follows: 1st Urinary tract infections occur in 1/100 cases and can be treated easily with antibiotics. In 2/100 cases, post-operative difficulties occur; therefore, surgery cannot be justified by prophylaxis of urinary tract infection. 2. The studies that have demonstrated protection against cancer, sexually transmitted diseases, and HIV infections are highly critical, most of which have been carried out in sub-Saharan Africa based on a weak foundation and related medical grounds in Western countries. 3. Opinion against young boys cannot be justified by evidence that it prevents certain diseases that come only with sex. It could be justified only if it was performed in adolescents or young adults with complete and informed consent. Doctors in the Western world have assembled and written articles showing that they do not mishap boys for nonmedical purposes and consider such actions to be against medical standards. Their message is that unless they have medical grounds, they should not be covered. I would especially like to mention a well - known article from the 2013 Peditrics Today newspaper and 38 doctors from 16 countries who wrote together. The procedure is irreversible, causing both pain and infection risk. Although the procedure in itself is of little medical value, all such intervention carries some risk. According to statistics from the United States, another hundred male children are killed following a year of surgery when they are bleeding out. There are also pre-existing bleeding disorders that are not known before the children are circumcised. Because one child dies because of unnecessary surgery, one child is too much. But what does such an operation involve? How will circumcision take place, and when? The primary site of penile foreskin surgery is surgically removed. Among the Jews, the most commonly circumcised boys are circumcised on the eighth day of life. Among Muslims, however, it is most common for boys to be circumcised at about ten years of age. From the United States, I hear that many young boys are simply circumcised in the maternity ward, which is said to be soon after birth. Details of the procedure are controversial, as are the following: 1st The operation is performed without anaesthesia or with low anaesthesia and so much pain, trauma, symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder. anaesthesia is not used. Children either cry gravely or do not respond. Children's indifference has been explained by the fact that children have not yet felt pain so young. Studies have shown that the reaction is a shock reflex, a form of cataplexy. 2. In many places there are surgery other than operating rooms, such as homes not sterilized and doctors, but religious leaders. - I don't mean it's done at home here on land, I don't know what to do. But this is a Children's report. There is a serious risk of infection in such situations that can lead to death. 3. The circumcision of young children violates the right of children to express their opinion on matters that concern them. A respectable president. Now, let's turn to the human rights side of the matter, but the reason why I'm asking the matter is that as lawgivers, we should be careful to protect our children completely from anything that wars against the United Nations Children's Convention and Human Rights in general. The idea that the bill is prompted by a news report on the home of a child's agent, on September 30, 2013, was written by members of the children in the Northern countries and by health care professionals under a declaration against the operation of young boys. I'd like to read the story about the baby's agent's website or part of it. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ Yesterday, September 30, 2013, the executives of the children in the North and various health professionals signed a declaration against the circumcision of young boys. Opinions on young boys involve violating their rights, unless such action is considered necessary for health reasons. Circumcision includes permanent intervention in the body of a child, which may result in severe pain, as well as the risk of infection and other problems. The circumcision of young boys is in poor harmony with Article 12. The United Nations Children's Covenant, which deals with the right of children to influence their own lives. In addition, surgery against 3 mg is considered indicated. 24th par. The covenant that protects children from traditions that are harmful to children's health. The United Nations Human Rights Council has also encouraged all countries to ban action that endangers the human dignity of children and is not in harmony with the rights of children. While it is true that it is the right of parents to provide guidance for their child when it comes to religion, such rights can never go to the right of a child again. - This is basic here. ▪ In this regard, let us point out that according to Article 3. The children's covenant is the best thing for a child to do when making decisions that concern a child. The right of children and their immunity, therefore, to go further on the right of adults to make religious and cultural decisions on behalf of their children. The statement states that the Children's Agents and various health professionals in the Northern States strongly feel that it is necessary to work to forbid surgery on young boys. It is important to respect the self - determination rights of children and to forbid circumcision on boys except in the cases of a boy who has gained sufficient age and maturity to understand what is involved in the operation. It is hoped that a controversial statement will lead to a reasoned debate between all concerned. Finally, governments across the North are encouraged to contribute to the education of children's rights and risks of circumcision. In addition, they are encouraged to take the necessary steps to ensure that boys themselves will be allowed to be circumcised when they are old and mature. Mr. President. I'm also going to continue to refer to a children's report, which contains a lot of interesting information. That, in fact, is what the Bible says. by permission of the President: ▪ The Convention of Human Rights states that everyone has the right to life, freedom, and security, and that no one should suffer dishonorable treatment. The United Nations Children's Covenant tells us that we all make decisions and measures that concern children's lives based on what is best for a child. And 76rd. Iceland's constitution states: ▪ Children must be ensured in the laws of protection and care required for their well - being. 3 mg. 24th par. The children's covenant says that Member States should take all the measures they can take, and we are expected to eliminate traditions that are harmful to children. No doubt, religious circumcision can be applied to this provision, although it is not yet supported by the data of the child - rights committee responsible for the compliance with the covenant. Furthermore, the circumcision of young boys is not compatible with Article 12. The children's covenant that says that children have the right to express their opinion in all matters of concern and to take into account their opinion according to their age and development. This would be more consistent with the law if a decision was made to make for an operation until the child's age was reached to make informed decisions about whether he would like to be performed. The European Parliament published a report in September 2013 on various traditions related to early intervention in children's lives, where countries were encouraged to take appropriate precautions to ensure safety of children and set rules for home surgery, i.e. Only by doctors at appropriate clinics, such as hospitals or clinics in an antiseptic environment. Children's health encourages the government to examine the common cases of child abuse in Iceland as well as the circumstances of circumcision. Mr. President. At the Council of 145 C.E., there was no problem. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, who is also a coauthor of this bill, asked for a health minister for child surgery. She even asked. to see if there were any information on how to operate children in this country and if so, how many such measures had been performed in the past decade. The Senator also requested that age of children and gender be determined in response and whether the procedure had been performed for health or social or religious reasons. In answer to a minister, we say, by permission of the president: A land surgeon does not regularly collect information on surgery on children in this country. This is an isolated case, but the content of a girl's genital surgery is prohibited according to the regulations of 218. a. General penalties, No. 19/1940. According to the same law, assault on girls' genitals is a procedure. The surgeon general has obtained the following information: One operation has been performed on a boy for medical reasons. Three years. At the hospital, such procedures are for medical purposes only. There are two independent child surgeons on the land, and there has been no operation on this. two years. When the databases of the office prior to 2009 were searched, it was found that one operation was carried out in 2009 and one in 2012. In recent answers, a surgeon published in an article on the subject in the Morning Press. A week ago, it says that there have been 15 operations in the course of 2006-2016 - I hope that I'm right about the second year - but the one here has requested new numbers and more information from the office. So the figure that appears in the reply of a minister to a question at any time. paritaprevir Looks like Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's daughter isn't up to it. That's at least discrepancies that need to be examined. I have received the answer from the surgeon of the country that the registration of operations is in the way that they have set a number according to the type of operation. The cause of such actions is also explained in the case of medical causes. As far as I'm concerned, there's no record of an operation for religious reasons. Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir also proposed a question to the health minister at 145. In answer to a minister, we say, by permission of the president: The Government Declaration shows that Iceland is to be a family-friendly country where children live on security and equal opportunities and enjoy legal rights like other members of society. Healthcare professionals consider it important to perform surgery on the body of children by health care professionals who are under law. 34/2012 and this ensures that the quality and safety of these actions are monitored, as per law of No. 41/2007, regarding surgeons and public health, which discuss the monitoring of health care and health care professionals. Therefore, the Ministry believes that there will be comparable guidelines and will be consulted with the surgeon's office in order to do so. And it is the task of the Parliament now to see whether it is necessary to forbid circumcision on boys by law or simply to set specific rules for the handling of boys. Some have pointed out in the media discussion that during the past few days there is no need for such laws to be set, with so few action on boys to do so. As far as I'm concerned, that argument doesn't weigh too much. In 2005, I would like to refer to the 131th legislation of women and girls as an approved prohibition. The reason for this law was not that there would be a problem in Iceland, the masses would be such, but the case of human rights. Why should we allow the mutilation of boys' genitals while they are banned by law against women and girls? The Icelandic government has supported the international discussion and work done, such as by the United Nations and the World Health Organization, and its measures to prevent genital mutilation. Iceland was designed to form one of the states that agreed at the General Assembly of the United Nations in 2012, calling for an international campaign to wipe out mutilation on women's genitals. Are we not going to leave the boys in that fight? I hope not. The government's policy is to eliminate sexual violence and to protect children in particular. In view of this, I hope that we Icelanders will become the first state in the world that forbids the mutilation of boys' genitals. V.E.G. President. The rest of the bill means that the current 2005 law on the prohibition against mutilation of women's genitals and girls will be changed in a way that replaces the word girl with the word "child" In a paper with the bill that became the law No. 83/2005, there are many very important information and the very history of this case. The wording of the matter had been changed from ◯um to the female genital readings, in accordance with the term use of the United Nations, the U.S.A., the Šphemale geneutant mutilation, or FGM, which is believed to describe the procedure better. In 2005, a legal hearing was that at the 127th legislature, a health minister was asked if the Minister felt that it was time to legalize a girl's surgery and set a penalty for such an act. In response to the writer's report, it was noted that the female circumcision was considered physical violence, not medical action, and that doctors were forbidden to perform it according to medical law. In response to a minister, it says, with permission of the president: (b) What questions should we ask ourselves? ▪ In accordance with the judicial legislation, the girl's surgery should be subject to the physical offenses of the general penal law, No. 19/190, srb. 218. B., sr. Second changes, defined as violation of the Constitution of Human Rights, Child Protection, No. 80/2002, srb. 98th and 99th. .......... 74/1997,156 Health Minister also pointed out that the action was contrary to the United Nations Convention on Child Rights, the European Convention of Human Rights, and the Treaty on the elimination of all discrimination against women from 1992. In answer to a minister, it was stated that the premeditated ban on the court case of a girl suggests that he is not inclined to consider whether such a prohibition should be a law. In fact, such a prohibition would be in accordance with the United Nations Convention on Child Rights, as laid out in Iceland 1992, that Member States should take all the measures that are profitable and should be taken in order to eliminate practices that are harmful to children and that Member States should make sure that no child is severely tortured or other cruel, inhuman or demeaning treatment or punishment. The 2005 bill also says, by permission of the president: The fact that this kind of law has not yet been legalized in Iceland is that it has not yet been found to show that this type of action has been done here - notice this, has not yet been performed here - ◯ and gives us the opportunity to prevent such an act before the damage is done. It would even be harder to deal with legalization as such after some of the cases involved. As the law against mutilation of women's genitals becomes more common, nations will find it more difficult to maintain this ancient tradition that damages life, body, mental health, and the well - being of female and female girls. It is the duty of the Icelanders in the national community to contribute to this ancient tradition and to prevent the mutilation of many female children. If the bill is legal, it is a preventive and clear declaration of Iceland's support of the battle against these brutal abuses and violations of human rights on children and women in the world. Mr. President. The above evidence is, of course, that the law against mutilation of girls and women's genitals is as relevant, then as at present, and is also appropriate as evidence for bans on boys' genital mutilation. This bill suggests that children must be circumcised by a change in 218. g. a general penal law unless this procedure is deemed necessary for medical reasons. Transporters feel that unless such a procedure is considered necessary for health reasons, surgery on young boys involves violating their rights. Circumcision involves permanent intervention in the body of a child, which may result in pain, as well as the risk of infection and other problems later in life. It is considered that boys who want to be circumcised for religious or cultural reasons make such decisions for their own age and development in order to understand what is involved in such an operation, in which the procedure is irreversible. Transporters want to underline and stress that the circumcision of young boys is in accordance with Article 12. The United Nations Children's Covenant, which deals with the right of children to influence their own lives. In addition, surgery against 3 mg is considered indicated. 24th par. The covenant that protects children from traditions that are harmful to children's health. The United Nations Human Rights Council has also encouraged all countries to ban action that endangers the human dignity of children and is not in harmony with the rights of children. While it is true that it is the right of parents to provide guidance for their child when it comes to religion, such rights can never go to the right of a child again. In this regard, it can be noted that according to Article 3. The children's covenant is the best thing for a child to do when making decisions that concern a child. The right of children and their immunity, therefore, to go further on the right of adults to make religious and cultural decisions on behalf of their children. In this context, it is important to consider a general comment from the Geneva Children's Protection Committee. It is, in fact, there. discussed the interaction between chapters 3 and 19. the children's covenant. It is stated that the best for the child must be interpreted collectively with all the branches of the covenant, including 19. ...and protect children from any form of violence. 3.g. cannot be used. The covenant in order to justify customs that have been practiced by people, such as physical, cruel, or humiliating punishment that violate human dignity and physical integrity. Furthermore, the comment says that a person's assessment of what is best for a child cannot replace real commitments to respect the rights of children according to the children's covenant. According to this, Mr. President, I firmly believe that the Icelandic government is to forbid surgery on the boys' genitals where it violates their human rights and freedom of worship.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u163	Mr. President. Thank you. A candidate for extensive public talk and good talk. At the same time, I want to thank you. A senator and her associates for putting up this important bill and raising up this discussion that I think is very important. I have to admit that this may be one of the things that you feel so absurd that you just hadn't realized that they were allowed. One of the things I had planned to ask him. A senator is the number of measures being carried out here, but it did establish that there are different stories, numbers being different, and the need to better determine exactly the number of such measures. But I'd like to ask. A senator to see if there are any countries that forbid male circumcision, whether she knows about it. And at the same time, the declaration signed by the Children in the Northern Lands that encouraged such an act to be banned. Whether she has any knowledge of how the discussion has developed, at least in the north, and even beyond. Otherwise, I thank you for sharing in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u164	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir That's Bryndís's daughter's Haraldsdóttir for the answer. The Senator has studied and received information from the General Information Agency on the situation in other parts of the world, especially in the Northern countries, on this matter. So far, there is no state that forbids circumcision on boys. If we were to agree to such laws, we would become the first country in the world to what I considered to be a perfect example. Indeed, the debate in other parts of the North countries is extensive. I have had tremendous reactions from people, as I spoke earlier, from health professionals in the Northern States, the Icelanders who serve there both in nursing and in medicine. I've also seen that the coverage has been considerable in the Norwegian newspapers that this is being discussed here at the General Assembly. The situation in Denmark is that if a certain number of people are available, the law may present a pact proposal for the council. Fifty thousand people are marked. According to my information, 12 thousand people are present as references to such a bill. In view of whether the bill was against the law on religious freedom, the Danish Parliament is investigating whether the bill was deemed acceptable. So this is in Denmark. I also mentioned in my case earlier that there are now some special rules in Denmark regarding these measures. It's a matter of legalization for them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u165	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator and a member of the bill, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, very much for her speech earlier. She came in on most of the speculations that might arise because of the transfer. I am one of the bill's carriers, and to be told, I would like to say that my position on the matter has nothing to do with religion. This is primarily the case: I don't think it's right in this way to attack any children, whether boys or girls, and I believe that if you want to take such action later in life, it's their business, and if they decide it is theirs, they decide it for themselves. However, I would like to ask the senator that one thing in my previous answer, i.e. how the senator saw that this case would be handled in the legal system, whether it would be handled as a child protection case in case of such an event, whether there were laws on this matter also, or whether this was primarily a case taken on the basis of general penalties. I think it's important to think about that. As our society becomes more diverse, there may be an incident in which we need to wonder if children have stopped and if there is to be a intervention. Well, then it could land on Child Welfare Services.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u166	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson and my associate for their answer. I have not personally taken a stand on how such cases should be handled, but on the basis of a bill, if this action is performed, it is assumed that a provision in the current penal law for the prohibition against the men and women will be punished up to six years. It's all worked out that way, but I trust it. a welfare committee to review the matter carefully, and after a few weeks, they may submit their opinion where the progress would be made.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u167	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir's daughter for your answer. As she mentioned in her talk, there is actually no longer any medical grounds, at least not properly accepted, for these activities on the routine of children. The Senator came in handy to see that there may also be some dangers in taking the action, especially if these were done in imperfect situations where hygiene or such practices were not being cared for. In this regard, I'd like to introduce the senator to see if she had any information or knowledge about whether he was doing it or has been performed in other places than the U.S. National Institutes of Health, then probably without supervision until educated employees are employed, let's say. Although the procedure is very simple, at any rate, when it is performed in very young children, problems can still be encountered, as the senator did. There may be bleeding, infection, urinary tract damage to a male penis, and it may harm her to perform this type of operation if it is made by someone who does not know how to function properly. I'd like to see the senator after she knows that something happened here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-08-24.u168	V.E.G. President. I do not have conclusive evidence that such operations were carried out at home. But I think it is important that with this discussion that we now take up at the General Assembly, by presenting, at least, this matter and going over these things, we have had an enormous and general debate over the last days, and especially because of these measures, such as myself, people in general are not to think about this and are not aware that the decision of men is permissible. People don't even think about it. I think this discussion helps with information and consciousness. If such actions are carried out and someone notices something, day - to - day parents, or others involved in caring for children outside the family, they are aware of this. But no, I don't have the authority.
