ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u1	Borist has a letter from the 9th. Smoke. So, Lilja Alfreðsdóttir, that she can't attend next week. So today, at the World Council of 1st, a deputy of the Future Party Art, Alex Björn Bulow Stefánsson. His letter has already been investigated and agreed, but he has not taken his place in the Council before, so the commitment to the Constitution is to be signed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u2	Alex Björn Stefánsson has signed his commitment to the Constitution and is welcome to work at the General.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u3	At a meeting of the International Parliamentary Association on February 1, Ólafur Ágústsson Ágúst was elected vice president.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u4	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Health, Department of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Environmental and Resource Ministers, Transport and Regional Ministers and Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u5	Mr. President. The government's treaties show that they have no policy on the development of the financial system; however, they want to shape their course some later, but they plan to start writing a white book that we should discuss at the council some other time. It is surprising in itself that the government does not have a policy in this nation's large interests, one of the biggest issues of politics in the past few years. But as long as this lack of policy exists, the government gradually, and actually quickly, is losing its grip on events. Clearly, it has not been a willingness to step into the experiment of hedges to take over Arion's bank. Have such efforts led them to have a very large share and to plan to expand it. They now move up and want to apply contracts from 2009, from the so - called later privatization of the banks when the banking system was handed over to the hedge fund, and they expect it to be 13% in the bank directly owned by the state. That's why I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: Does the state sell their share at the bank? Will the state give up its prenuptial rights in the stocks of Arion banks for their market registration, as planned? It has been observed that governments require them to surrender their prenuptial rights to the bank stocks. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: Is it the government's policy to do that? Is it also her policy to sell a 13% share of the State to these parties on the basis of their demand? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u6	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry, although I do not agree with its grounds for the so - called failure of the government in the financial affairs of the system. The government wants to create a healthy discussion here about how we want to develop an Icelandic financial system for the future. Significant changes have been made in recent years in view of our being part of the European market. A very extensive financial structure has been introduced here. A senator, of course, knows well, who has completely changed his situation. The reason the government wants to attack a white book that we want to have a conversation about at the council, calling out experts and foreign counselors, is to examine the Icelandic financial system more carefully whether we consider it a rule that has been implemented in recent years. Whether we want to take a step in it to make sure that we separate the activities of business and investment banking. Whether we want to look to some particular situation when it comes to personal wealth and so on. I would've thought what. A senator should celebrate it as others do. Senators that we are trying to suggest the basis for policy development on the financial system the work of experts, which gives us the opportunity to discuss here at council. I don't think it's a fair or proper basis for what's happened. A senator talking about lack of direction. Hv. A senator was the prime minister of the 2013 -2016 government. Then a so - called stability agreement was set up. Then the decision was made that the government's ownership of the Arion Bank would be the present - day one, i.e. through this 13% share. Other possible routes have been identified to make it possible for the State to take over Arion's bank. That was not done at the time. The situation today is that the state has a share of 13%. I'm going to find out more about the premium in my second answer and whether it's right to sell that item. [[The president calls.]] But that is true of the government covenant. A senator testified that during the election season, the government's holding of money was reduced.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u7	Mr. President. I call the president's attention to the fact that there were no answers. V.E.G. In general, a minister says that it is good to have a conversation with the others and these and think about things. These issues have been discussed more than any other subject for a decade. It is incomprehensible if political parties have not been able to shape their policies on this area at the time. To be a government under these circumstances without knowing what they're going to do about it other than having a white book written and wondered about things, a white book that I don't know to have any work started. Meanwhile, it's getting out of your hands. It will not be important to wonder about some white book when others have mastered the financial system and have developed it according to their own ways, such as these people, the hedge fund, are now in the cover of this government. Therefore, I reiterate my question, Mr. President, will the government give up the premium of letters in Arazon Bank? Will she sell the hedge fund the 13% expected from the government?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u8	Mr. President. As mentioned in my case earlier, there was a why. A senator when a stability agreement was made, and the window was left open for the hedge fund of entering Arion's bank. The wedding was negotiated, as it were. A senator asks here. In my time, we covered it thoroughly in opposition to government. A member of the Economic and Business Committee where the result was that the premium was not present in the light of the business that then took place in the hedge fund. When it comes to selling the part of the state of Arion's bank, no decision has been made. But I quote here that in a government contract, the government's holding on financial assets is no more than in Europe. Well, at least not at all. A senator would want it 100% according to what has been described here. It does not belong to the government to increase its ownership but to reduce its ownership, but it remains a bank in a market, as shown in a government contract. Hv. A senator cannot complain of lack of direction. I'd think it was pretty clear. And taking these matters to a deeper level in the field of the council would have made me feel very positive, both for the council and for the financial system.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u9	Mr. President. I think it is very happy that the plan is to expand and strengthen the foreign business of our Icelanders as well as to the highest extent. Secretary of State has signed an agreement, including We're in business organization, assigning them specific tasks, specific counseling and other information related to promoting foreign trade services. I think it's a lot of joy. Of course, certain questions arise about the policy of the government. Will the government delegate to other projects in the field of foreign trade services and private foreign services? Is that government policy? I won't go against it very much, but I just want an answer on a clear course. Is it meant to consult other stakeholders other than the professional Association, which are a very powerful organization? I know that very well after working there for three years. Will the government aim to consult other stakeholders, such as ASI or private partners, in promoting the foreign business services we all want to do? I must also ask in view of this whether there was a new direction in the direction and role of our foreign embassy. The Foreign Minister has introduced us to the Foreign Affairs Committee of New Policy and debates regarding the embassies, but these factors have not been carefully discussed. Is the prime minister involved in bringing in the more recruitment projects, such as the Ministry of State, to stakeholders, to private residents in a town that is powerful? It's good to consult the expertise there, but it would be a change of course on the part of the Prime Minister, if I understand this correctly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u10	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the record. The structure of the foreign service is at the highest level. Secretary of State, and he can likely answer questions. A senator in a better way than the one standing here. However, when I was last serving in the government, in 2009●2013, I joined in the establishment of an Iceland lab that is about to increase the cooperation of different stakeholders in the community and the government of foreign trade. It was the project of the government I was in then. It doesn't have to come either. A senator is surprised that I am the follower of a very good consultation with the employment parties and also the cultural parties, the members of the community and the community when it comes to promoting international relations with other countries. V.E.G. Secretary of State has stressed his policy of working very well with the job when it comes to foreign transactions. I think it's normal in itself. We own this facility, an Iceland lab, which actually comes to review the arrangement. I think it's a default. I don't think it's hiding private agents from foreign policy implementation. I don't think that's what this is all about. On the other hand, it is so, like a cot. I'm sure a senator would agree that to form when it comes to the sector I know best, the cultural sector, where we've hit a huge beach blow in recent years, the main difference has been to have those who are active in culture at the table when decisions have been made to draw closer to the cultural level. Hv. A senator may well know this as a former minister of his painting class. Cooperation? Yeah. But decision-making is not to be delegated to anyone other than the State Department.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u11	Mr. President. I must say, I am very pleased with this answer. Prime Minister. I share with her that it is important to seek out and trust to seek out a private person, whether in culture, education, foreign business, or anywhere else. We should not be afraid to cooperate with private people and give the work that the government has done until now, at least Partially. I welcome this answer to the highest degree. Prime Minister. To tell you the truth, I was a little afraid of the formation of this government, because it was obvious that in certain chapters of the Government Convention, the whole business of private education was being promoted. It's, for example. A question about the government's attitude toward education and the business of those people who run, including some of them, is: High school, high school, and college, where private students come to, such as the University of Reykjavík. I think it's a celebration. Here the prime minister says: Yes, we can look to a private publisher for a certain assignment; we do not exclude them in any area, either in culture, foreign service, or anywhere else. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The main thing is to serve the community and make Iceland stronger. We don't do that with some Creole bitch.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u12	Mr. President. Yeah, I don't think I'm going to be specifically accused of any Crevice bitch. I mentioned an excellent example of an Icelandic firm set up in the exact period of 2009 ◯2013, where the members of the industry and the government met. I don't know that this cooperation has produced a lot of results, and I think it's just a learning process. How important it is to use knowledge where it exists! I mentioned culture earlier, but we can look to any corner and sector of the industry to form our good innovation companies, who are doing a tremendous job in the foreign business. Most important of all, we take knowledge from the root grass. So I have seen it as no less as a cooperation between governments and the grass roots in each sector.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u13	Mr. President. There have been reports of an increase in real estate values. I'm here with the business magazine from today. It shows that real - estate evaluations increase by 13.8% in general, while summer farm prices increase by 38.7%. As noted on the website of Fastit, the purpose of real estate evaluation is primarily, by permission of the President, to establish the basis: ...for the pressures of public pay, but the real-estate assessment is the source of real estate bills and genetic taxes. This is an important taxation for the rural communities, which, from year to year, is the result of an institution in a town that I don't in any way doubt about doing my job with the most conscientious, but it is quite clear that 13.8% of the rates of real estate are against real estate owners, especially those who have no superinvolved. We can look at sensitive groups such as to form a pensioner; their compensations have not increased anything like this. There is a real fault at this rural income level that it is totally from the income of currency. If we talk specifically about the summer houses, this taxation is all connected, not only to currency income, but also entirely with the services the rural communities provide to the owners of vacation homes. So my question to the Secretary of State is: Can real estate be expected to have shelter in it? [[The president calls.]] Will he make practical adjustments in these matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u14	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an interesting inquiry. If you look at the rise in real estate over the country, the increase is, fortunately, higher than in the capital area. As the senator knows, real estate evaluation is determined on the basis of the market laws, i.e. of the market and market items in the respective regions. This is clear, as it is clear, that last year market prices in summerhouses have apparently rose. But you're right about what you're talking about. A senator that the rurals use this tax base. We'll put the law on them. In fact, we set limits for our rural communities, where they can be within a certain range. It is in their hands whether or not they fully use the tax base, they have the right to decide. In many cases of high increases, the rural population should be examined for a reduction in the pressures of the percent. But in any case, I think it's possible to say that the rurals are working hard to provide the services it costs. Although it may vary from country to country and from situation, I think I may claim that my rural society is certainly trying to do so. However, it can probably be controversial whether it is sufficient or not. The big thing is, we have these legislations, which means that often real - estate estimates increase considerably more than people want. But the goods have increased, and there is more to them. On the contrary, they have to pay more for it to the local community unless the local community lowers the stress target.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u15	Mr. President. I'm going to say that I can't welcome the minister's particular answer this time. He refers first to the fact that this is the market plan, but there are factors that affect the market prices. One is to make up, as in the capital area, especially in Reykjavík, that there has been a trend in organizational matters that has led to great increases in prices. Why is this to lead to an increase of taxes in the public? On the one hand, I think a minister would like to, if I may say so, take a closer look at the ministry. If we go up to the summer houses, the vacation homes, it is said to be quite limited in many places. I guess a minister knows this because of the size of a summer house in his own district. I allow me to reiterate my admonition to the minister on the matter. He says that these communities can decide in a certain direction, but this just isn't a good thing enough. [[The president calls.]] It has to be better connected with the earnings and services rendered by the other members of the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u16	A respectable president. In case of a moment. A senator is asking that the person involved in changing the law on this matter or asking if there is a possibility I can inform you that there is no such thing, at least not at this time. Of course, whether the rules we set at the council are natural, we must always keep an eye on what is going on in the community. You're right next door. A senator that I myself have been serving in a rural government in the South country, and I know it all very well. In fact, I have been chairman of a planning committee and have adopted the very few vacation buildings in that area, although it is not in that rural society where I lived. That's why I say I know that men are trying to be careful how to perform services. Of course, when there is such a tremendous rise, over a third of a year, everyone is wondering whether the system is good enough or how to react. I'd like to show you the right to decide is in the hands of a country partner. They can increase and decrease within a set standard, many of which will when such changes occur. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u17	A respectable president. A law issued by the businessman in the capital area in the end of the election at the request of Glitnis on the discussion of the hour and in Reykjavík Media for the financial activity of the then prime minister, at the latest. The minister of the press, Bjarni son of Benediktsson, was on the move to freedom of the press here. This law was rejected from the district last week. Regarding this, the president of the School of the Law in Reykjavík, Ragnhildur Helgadóttir, an interview with the U.S. Kingdom Radio News Office, has allowed the president: It's a natural fact that there can be a ban on a conversation that matters for 10 days before the election and still lasts three months later. It shouldn't be possible. Jón Ólafsson, chairman of the Conspiracy, is a member of the highest standards of corruption. The prime minister of a committee to strengthen political trust, writes on the same issue that calls the county's actions, with the permission of a president, a threat to the legal state, to the rights. On this occasion, I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister whether it agrees with this view of the actions of a businessman in the capital area, which is expressed in the words of these two respected scholars.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u18	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry was about the ban on the evidence under consideration of the date referred to. I said, when this ban was imposed by a businessman, and I haven't changed its mind, that it would be necessary to be a very important interest which requires freedom of expression in a democracies community. At that time, I felt very unlikely that those interests would be so important to me as a judge. As we know, that led to the conclusion of the district. I believe that there is good reason to review the legal environment we have on these matters, in fact, to report that the government's work has been taking place since 2010, when this was adopted a resolution of the protection of freedom of expression, often taught IMI, to review issues of freedom of expression. This work has paid its way into law-changes, to form on the media law at its time, where sources' protection was first legalized and the initiative given here. Then there are basics prepared from the work force that produced in the last 2017, if not. I have suggested that these bills be considered as well as to review the information legislation which is fully needed to review from the development of the Enlightenment Act since the last review and that the issues under the definition of free media will be considered. There is true freedom of expression in our country, and it is of utmost importance in all voluntary democracies that we guarantee it to the best.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u19	Thank you very much. Prime Ministers give us good answers and believe that there is reason to expect any of the activities of a committee that she has appointed to consider these matters. Now it seems that this bill has been submitted by a panel that should be relevant to this matter, and we senators may be able to agree. My second question points to this Pirata bill of a change in the law of immobilisation, regulations, etc. It is obvious that there will be no legal ban on media coverage without a prior federal judgment. My second question to the highest. The prime minister will then decide whether she will not support that bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u20	Mr. President. I would like to take the time to review the bill and will suggest that the group appointed - representing the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, and the Ministry of Education and Culture, which deals with the media, as well as the authorities in the area of expression freedom - consider the bill for the council. I haven't worn it out, so I admit, though I know the big lines of the bill as well as the rest of it. A senator mentions. I have suggested that this group yield their first capital of October 1, 2018, but their final divorce for a further job will be 1st March 2019. I hope that we will see changes in these laws and other legislation that make it clear to public officials' boundaries and confidentialities, so that I will consider matters that have been well considered, but also a review of the Enlightenment Act. I'll go over the bill we have here, and I'll request that this group do the same.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u21	Mr. President. An illegal order by a judge may lead to his unmarked judgment, as was the recent judgment of the European Court. This means that justice is certain of the judgments that the judges, who in an illegal way, have been appointed into judgment; it is a certainty of all their judgments in the future. Right now, Justice Vilhjálmur Hans Vilhjálmsson William Williamsson has made a requirement in the National Court for her Arnfríður of Arnourable Einarsdóttir, a judge of the court, to be removed from her court. Even if it is not dismissed, it can still be called to the Supreme Court. If he does nothing about it, he can be referred to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. This may mean that all the judgments of this judge will be illegal. That's correct. That's a very serious fact. Why is this important? Yes, because it's about national rights, that's why we have the right to represent independent, hostile, and independent courts. Is that changing? On TV the other day, the minister himself said on TV, with the permission of a president: ▪ Judges also need to be independent in their jobs with regard to other judges. And it is very important that they do not sit on the qualifications committee, which are selecting judges, other judges. No one is about to tell judges how to judge outside the court, but judges can be indebted to some other judge when judging. Then says the captain of the house, The Helgi Seljan: ▪ Or Minister? And the Minister will respond, by permission of the President: Or a minister? Yeah, I mean, yeah, yeah, but you know, but, yeah, yeah, it can be that way too. She admits that the judges may be indebted to her for her appointment. This provides the basis for the absence of adverse or independent judges. I just want to give the Minister of Justice a chance to tell the Americans what they intend to do in this grave situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u22	A respectable president. As noted in the news, a legal attorney in a judicial court has decided to test whether one judge of the land's rights is qualified for work. I don't know any better than they're going to review this week in court and I'm sure it's decided very soon. As a result, the case will probably go to the Supreme Court. Now every member of this council hall must lay down his own lines, but I don't think it proper to discuss judicial matters here within the house. But I have said this: There is a Supreme Court judgment that a minister has not done enough research when it came to order or choice of judges. It has been pointed out, and once again I make it a matter of the ecstatic order of the Court of Government. It is not that judges at the National Court are not legally appointed. This was a legal process. They are appointed in accordance with law, which is very clear, which suggests that a minister proposes a proposal to the Council. In this case it was particularly charged that a minister should propose a judicial committee before the Council. Thus, whether a minister had followed the proposal of an expert committee or not, the Council had made a decision in these matters. Thereafter, the Council made a decision, had the option to accept or reject a minister's proposal. As we know very well here in this hall, the General Council agreed to give some suggestions. Orders continued to be signed by the president as well as by the president. So it is not my opinion that judges were not legally appointed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u23	Mr. President. According to the Minister of Justice, things have not been quite different from the Minister of Justice, but there is nothing new about them. However, experts have been pointing out that this is correct. It is true when the Ministry of Justice disagrees with experts in this. Skúli Magnússon was the office manager of the EFTA Court and the EFTA Court has had to handle a similar situation. It's very simple. If you cannot be sure of the security of the citizens, the right of the citizens, to appear before the hostile, independent court, which you cannot guarantee in this case, then at the civil rights and the court state of justice should be in place rather than in the position of the Minister of Justice who has decided to drive his people into the land's rights on red light and perhaps at the same time. This was an opportunity for a minister of justice to tell the people how they intend to react in this case. The minister does not seem to have in mind doing anything to fix this position, but perhaps he has one minute now to implicate it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u24	A respectable president. I completely dismiss unconcerned, unconcerned claims that a minister here was appointed to the court of so - called human conventions, such as the roost. A senator mentioned in his talk. In case of a moment. A senator is referring to a measure of justice that may still exist at the same time. A senator, the rightness, or the position of these judges, would be fine. I don't know any better than they're going to talk about it in the U.S. Supreme Court, and I think it's due to the Supreme Court soon. [[Up front.]] In the meantime, I will not express myself at any point in this court.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u25	Mr. President. Now I have to challenge a respectable president to take action in defense of the council in order to fulfill his role after what we heard earlier in the answers to the Supreme Court. Prime Minister. In fact, there was little question about answers, but there was a lot about strange statements and there seems to be a number of things that have been washed away at the highest level. Ministers on matters discussed there. So I want to encourage the highest. A president to use all the available data on the fulfillment of stabilisation conditions related to Arion banks will be made public or at least allow members of the Parliament to access these data. V.E.G. So the prime minister declared earlier that there was no prerogative. Mr. President must be wondering, as with me, how are these parties asking for the State to cancel their premium if there is no premium? Now the council has to intervene in making statements like the one from the highest level. The early prime minister can be devastating, and it is important that we start discussing this matter on the right terms. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u26	A respectable president. I think, in view of the responses observed earlier today at the highest level. The prime minister has no choice but to respond to the suggestions given by the Middle Order, Sigmundur Davíð Gunuga's Gunnlaugsson, set out right here in this regard. It is with great wonder that people speak here, at the same time as they are being picked up by the government's financial exorbitant rights, as if there were no premium. It's so obvious there's a prenup. There is nothing else in this situation than to submit the available data. We're gonna go for a second. Councilmen here speak out day by day about the importance of transparency and the fact that all data are on the table. I'm just saying what we just said, to the highest. As soon as possible, the president will take advantage of all these data.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u27	Mr. President. I agree with this request. It is in our best interests all of us to get it straight once and for all, whether this premium is present or not. I'd like Mr. President to take the bait for us to see these contracts. Then it's clear, and then you can't just stick around and back with this case. This is the important thing and much is at stake in this regard. I'd also like to mention it here, because it's called Anion Bank, because the state now has a 13% share in this bank, that a meeting was held south with seawater recently because of the failure of the United Silicon, which is the largest creditor. It stated that the bank plans to place $3 billion. in the development of the company, which is very controversial in the South. In addition, it is worth considering whether the owner of this 13% state fund is acceptable to putting this money in the company.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u28	Mr. President. What I said earlier in my speech was that this case was addressed at the time. A financial and business committee relating to the purchase of hedge funds is involved in Arion's bank at the latest council that discussed this particular premium and if it had formed in connection with the fixed purchase. The findings of the committee were that they had not been purchased with the premium. Just so they think what I said here. I propose, because I know why. paritaprevir Davíð Gunnlaugsson is a member of the Economic and Business Committee, that the matter will be set up there and monitored. A senator to do that. I quoted earlier to a report on the economic and business committee at the last council to see if the premarital rights were formed in the premium at the level of hedge funds involved in the Adoni bank. But as I mentioned, the window was left open when stable conditions were resolved at the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u29	A respectable president. I think it's quite the monopoly, of course, that the case will be taken up on the Economic and Business Committee, that it's being reviewed there. You are not free to think in terms of words. Prime Minister who appears to be a biography in the General's symposium on whether or not there is a premium. So we must ask the highest. Prime Minister: Does prime minister believe that the premium is valid or not? Is it possible to be informed by the minister? [[Up front.]] The minister here directs the committee. The minister himself must have opinions about whether or not the premium is active. It matters very much about the rest of the world, unless the government has decided not to leave it without discussing it at the Council, without any idea whether it will generally back the government on that journey.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u30	Mr. President. I'm going to point out members of the Central Party are going to go to a Senate law and push the ◯constrol find and write 25 quarters - you've got a quarter of the committees and you can go through the document. A fourth member of the committee may call for a meeting in a committee where some specific matter is addressed and in this case. Then we'll need three more members than the members of the committee are Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson and Þorsteinn Víglundsson. You just need two of them to join you. When a meeting on this matter is held, you can call for any information from the management board that has to do with the matter, even the confidential data, they would be available in a closed room. You can get all these data according to these laws. I would advise you to do it, to get this in your hands. Of course, at the General Assembly is to be able to examine these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u31	A respectable president. It's a bit of an odd talk here. It's like we're back to the campaign. They're here with some phrases about an Iceland back on that road, and some more. Hv. The members of the Central Party report either in a way that is too accurate, from the highest point of view. Prime Minister or unable to hear the answers; immediately follow her, calling for answers she has recently given. I want to agree with someone else. Councilmen who have suggested a state of concern. The members of the Central Party focus on this discussion in the correct direction, call for a discussion on the subject on the correct committee, and are not discussing this in this way under the supervision of President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u32	Mr. President. I think there's good reason to discuss this. We're not talking about any pennies, and I'm a little surprised that we're not fully aware of whether or not it's premium rights or not. To put matters in perspective, we are talking about the amount of money contained in one new national hospital.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u33	Mr. President. I bring it to the attention of a respectable president of the United States. It seems that the prime minister still did not realize how the situation is growing. V.E.G. Again, a minister reviews a meeting she sat at her time as a member of the Economic and Business Committee. In fact, in her earlier comments, she distorted that the meeting had been when I was prime minister and about matters that were then in progress. At that meeting, there was action that had then taken under control of the existing government at the beginning of the year, 2017, and was discussing whether the government or the government in general had their actions, possibly done anything, lost the premium rights available to the 30% involved. What I'm asking the highest. The prime minister is now concerned whether he believes that the state should give up its prenuptial rights to the additional letters in accordance with the demands of the hedge funds that are asking the State to give up the premarital rights that will then come to Mr. President, although, of course, it may be a great loss if the prime minister of the country declares that there is no such rights. Then they must think: Well, we don't have to bother asking the State to give up this right.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u34	Mr. President. As it happens, the person here was president of the Economic and Business Committee during the last term, which was unusually short, which, in fact, is still today. It was very clear when it came to the prenup, i.e. Over 30%, after careful examination by the Committee that these letters were not premiumed. It just so happens. paritaprevir Sigmundur the Davíð of Gunnak's Gunnlaugsson made up the mess that was fulfilled by the merchants. That's what's at the top. The prime minister earlier said everything is true. On the other hand, it may be that for the Committee it is a judicial decree from what? paritaprevir The victory over Gunnlaugsson, the son of Gunnak, must come to the committee's attention in one way or another, and then they must examine how we are at work. [[The president calls.]] Let's go a little slower into all statements here and at least Listen to it as the highest possible. The prime minister is telling her not to make up for something she did not say. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u35	Mr. President. I come up here for the words of one of the members of the government. You see, what the classes say to elections is important. Here is the Central Party, the democratic election with a strong mandate, to follow along, no matter what our opinion in that matter, our fight case from the election. It may be difficult for senators left green, independence party, or forwarding party to recognize what they said before elections. The members of the Central Party are following, very normal, one of their own concerns. I support the Central Party in looking for information because it is rather misleading. I support the Central Party in taking full advantage of the terms of Congress. Because it's huge. It has great national significance for all of us. I believe it is only natural for members of Congress, all divisions, democratic elections, to support other groups in obtaining information in a matter they follow up from elections. [[The president calls.]] It is only natural that we who want to recognize what was said before elections follow after elections. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u36	A respectable president. I think it crystals here in this discussion that there is nothing else in this situation than to publish this information. This should be relatively easy to achieve. Like what? paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason described this as mechanism, built in the time of the former prime minister, Sigmundur, Davíð, the son of Gunnlaugsson. Let's just print this, Óli Björn. I understood what you said so as not to see it coming. [[The president calls.]] While it's not clear, and they knock and make it, whether it's a premium or not I just say, "Let's light it all up and do it right away."
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u37	Mr President would like to remind you not to. Senators are addressed by full name.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u38	A respectable president. I just wanted to come up here and state that I believe that these data are drawn out unless there are any special reasons not to do so. The committee will then need to know why they are not published. I have to say, as far as I'm concerned, I haven't been in this situation as much as I am. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, who was present for a discussion on a council proposal that went to the Economic and Business Committee. We're gonna go for a second. paritaprevir The Sigmundur over Davíð Gunnlaugsson is both on that committee. I come to support the progress of his case, although he himself is its guide. It came from a review of January 15th, so there is no way of starting a discussion with the committee, whether it is a concierge proposal. The senator or the request he has here to collect information. I don't know what the problem should be to collect information in this subject, at least not for members of Congress, and just want to say that information cannot only draw out questionable things, it can also weaken suspicion. [[The president calls.]] I urge anyone who puts it to the top of the information so that we can discuss it in any way we can, but preferably with a longer speech period... [[The president calls.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u39	The president would like to state that the clock is beginning to fall apart. Senators must only read from it the minute they have.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u40	Mr. President. I see I've got less than five minutes. In the past year, last year, when the Economic and Business Committee discussed this matter, the Committee obtained access to all the data she wanted, everyone. It would not be out of the way for senators to examine the evidence then available. There's never been a time when the Senate, in this case, the Economic and Business Committee, would receive the information requested. It's no doubt, if you think there's a need for additional information to go to a common economic and business committee to provide and request them. It is perfectly normal, but it would also be okay to know which evidence it is. Councilmen believe they need help. It would be all right to review what has been done and to examine what was being said and why we did so in that way. [[The president calls.]] But, my God, we on a financial and business committee, of course, will continue the work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u41	A respectable president. Clearly, there is a big misunderstanding here, and perhaps only hope, since independence is naturally confused over which government they are at any given time. In recent years, they have not been very successful in making customs in the government. We're talking about the present government here today, the current government and the declarations that have been made there, and also about what appears to exist on the board, i.e. Do not take this prerogative. In case of a moment. The head of the Economic and Business Committee believes that during the last term all of this has been answered, there is probably nothing more to say about the matter, but what we're pointing out is that it's right to take the case back in view of this government's policy, this latest thing as far as possible. A senator is included. Socialists are leading this government today, and it may be difficult for the Independence Party to know, but independents still have to abide by the rules and play along with the council. That's what we're calling for.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u42	V.E.G. President. I agree with my party members and others who have participated in this discussion on the premium of Arion's bank, to call out for all the data that tell us if this premarital trial is not really there, because it makes you feel that it's not quite clear. The people need it, and we need it here at the council to clear up this situation so that it can be settled. I'm not gonna have any more words on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u43	Then the president has not noticed that other requests for the word for the President's conference board at this time would like to be taken up by this discussion. It is not intended that the President's conference board be prepared to continue unsubstantiated queries and continue to ask questions to the minister. This is what the program itself is for, but the people are free to accept material for this team, and the president is tolerant of it. Regarding the right of members of Congress to request information, he is rich and extremely important, and is very well assured in the ways of Congress committees, etc. Senators can ask for an oral or written answer. Senators can pick up issues within or outside the program. Senators can request reports and members of Parliaments by means of their member committees using them tools to obtain information. To this end, members of Congress do not need a president to see that there is no reason to spend much time talking with the President about things that the members themselves have in their power, i.e. to use the important tool of the council to provide information that is an important part of the Senate's surveillance and maintenance duties. This was what the president wanted to say at the end of this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u44	Mr. President. Electric energy production is an important part of nature. Modern resources are normally required to be used as the most sustainable and premeditated means. This calls for a global extravasation, a clear main policy on activations, electrical transport systems and national energy requirements. The Declaration of the Government states that energy policy will be set in the terms of the season through all councils. The estimate of energy demand will be laid down and taken into account by a more targeted energy supply policy, energy transport and efficiency policy. These issues are of great interest to society and nature. In recent years, energy policy and electricity reports have been published, legislation has been set up on the energy transport system, the system structure framework submitted. A work programme on climate change and energy exchange has been adopted, a set-up of energy options is being developed. Most of these are headed toward a global vision, a more cautious view that recognizes that energy resources are limited and natural and that the environment has useful limits, just as resources in the marine environment do. I'm going to point a question to the highest level. Minister and thank her for the opportunity: What is included in the declaration of the Treaty to make most practical use of the existing energy? What does that involve? What is involved in building energy policy on the estimated energy demand in relation to government policies? As a result of practicality, I remind you that water efficiency can be more efficient than modern improvements in transport systems, the use of air flows as a result of climate warming. I understand the constitution as if better than this, they will be working on adapting their own needs for electricity. Who could be a reasonable addition to the hydropower already activated? The building power is close to 2,000 megawatts. Based on energy projections for population growth, the development of enterprises outside the large industry and energy exchanges in transport, hundreds of more megawatts may be needed in the coming decades. An acceptable energy-rich enterprise may need similar force. A large - scale supply of data or food could be considered. In 2050, it may be expected that between more efficiency and energy saving measures, 500 and 1,000 megawatts may need to be taken into account. I'm asking you, could less part power come from a power source than more things from aquifer? Would this mean that the limit of normal energy production would not be reached? In a synonym for the construction of the electrical transport system, cohesion of airlines and landlines is expected in the main transport system. The government covenant says that no lines will be attacked over the highlands. Does this mean that neither the ceiling lines nor the earth cables will be placed on the high ground? How do we make sure that the results of the deepwaters and the possibilities for its activation are actually part of the energy policy? A new five-mile [5 km] long as a Rhinehole could change our energy supply very much. Such a hole is between five and ten times more powerful than a mile deep steam source. Within a few years, it will be clear if you can fully use this energy ball. Aggressive policy needs to explain how the depth and activation of the superholes may alter the terms of energy policy. The government's deal is a law on wind power power. There, however, is nothing to be found about marine energy and just a few words about heat pumps. I'll ask you, will there be a wide range of ways to get into the energy policy? Some experience has already been derived from windmills, and recent developments have brought far more interest in wind power than ever before. There are several major projects on the field of reconnaissance and experimentation, but this has not been discussed to any extent in government reports. Wind energy, as well as too little to explore marine energy, as with one company's development work, Val energy, must be part of energy policy. And what does it mean to export electricity from acceptable energy sources and domestic energy requirements? Because of the limitations of energy resources, many feel that we are not able and very small in the European context. The picture could change if one or more big business companies stop working or the activation of deep fever becomes effective. All aspects of the matter need to be informed here. I say, the conventions of a comprehensive and realistic energy policy that will be agreed by the majority of the people of the country. Mr. President. It is very important that the council have entered long - term energy policy in its early stages, in its shape. Therefore, I encourage all members of the council here to participate in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u45	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson for asking for a special discussion on this grand project that we are now planning. I started speaking for the importance of developing long - term energy policy soon after I began my office over a year ago, including in public talks, and therefore I welcome the very emphasis of a new government on the project. Regarding what the Treaty of the Treaty calls for making most practical use of the already applied energy, it says that for this purpose the transport and distribution systems of electricity in the country need to be more reliable and to connect key areas. In this way, the ability to produce energy in the past and to minimize waste can be most effectively used. There are also ways to improve the processing capacity of the current fortress through updrafts and more. This priority will be considered in a working group on the basis of long-term energy policy. It is stated that he will start his work later in this month than January 19 of that year. The government accepted my proposal for his order. Regarding the second part of the question, long - term energy policy needs to look to the long - term estimate of long - term energy needs. A senator came in. In this analysis, any government policy affecting energy needs must be taken into account, e.g. a declared energy exchange scheme. The energy forecasting committee estimates that until 2050, if society develops in the same way that it has, without new users, it will have to be added to 670 megawatts. Almost one fourth of that is due to energy exchange, so we are not just talking about cars. Each reasonable addition to current energy production is one of the questions to be considered in the work group. In my opinion, it is important to ensure that ambitious efforts for energy change can be achieved, that energy policy supports sectoral and regional policies, that more equality is being maintained between different parts of the country when energy issues and opportunities for a wide range of employment creations are involved, and that economic, social, and environmental factors are always balanced. This, of course, is a difficult task. In addition to energy forecasting, an energy forecaster has set up three scenarios. The motion picture of slow progress is 470 megawatts, its own electrical projections are up to 670, and its rating is green, with an increase in economic growth and greater emphasis on energy exchange, making up 870. These three make up no new users. It should be noted that it does not take much more of the current superintendents to completely change this image, as well as the data sets or other major users we might wish to make a deal with. The fourth stage is exactly the case with increased use. There the use of big users is growing as fast as in the last ten years, and this almost doubles the energy demand from the third stage, becoming 1,720 megawatt. Mr. President. In the next few days, I will recommend a proposal for a hearing of government policy on the building of electricity transport systems. There will be further developed the emphasis included in the Treaty on the transport and distribution systems of electricity, including The interaction of a better link of key areas in the transport system and, on the other hand, not to cross the highlands. You know, about deep feelings. A member of the staff's campaign for long-term energy policy has entered the geological deeps, the ability to generate energy in that field, and the impact of its project on energy policy. The deep - watered project is one of the most interesting innovations in the world that could bring a great profit and is one of Iceland's donations in the battle against climate change. In the command letter, the staff will also be assigned to look at new activation options, i.e. new routes of energy recovery, extending even over wind power plants, marine energy plants, and thermal pumps, as well as other possible technological innovations. A wide variety of ways to supply energy, focusing on innovation, research, and development, will be considered, taking into account the fact that no technical solutions will be eliminated from these substances. Of course, a subject on a possible electrical cord to Britain is material for other special discussions, but it also becomes part of a work at energy policy. What we know about the work of the marine cable project management presented in July 2016 is that the cost of a benefit analysis on the project shows that the project does not achieve minimalness unless direct support from the British government is available. Given the potential for positive effects on land production is considerable. A cable, however, would call for investments in almost 1,500 megawatts with renewed force, as well as a great supply of the transport system. I have said in general about the cable that I think it's easy and reasonable to look into it because we have a project that we don't have enough information about which is good, and neither do we have enough information to take it off the table. There is much work to be done before such a decision is made. And it's time to take up a long-term course that we reviewed every four or five years. In the end, I just want to thank you. A senator for requesting this discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u46	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Ari Guðmundsson for setting up this important matter. Working on a new energy policy for Iceland is an important project and is important to shape a complete vision. How much can we imagine that the system should grow and grow? Should we continue in the course of a major industry? There's something I really think we should disappear. Or will we look at another type of industry, food production, more based on more and less companies, instead of focusing on few major users? However, the prerequisite for all of this must be simple, i.e. that the transport system works. If we can't move the energy between areas, the situation is that we could be forced to go to an unfavourable electronic power option, the more disturbing activations, simply because the transport system does not function as it should. The fact is, there is nothing in today's society that doesn't run into electricity. Today, it is a fundamental human right to have access to it. How will we make ourselves a part of the fourth industrial revolution of powerlessness? Of course, the situation in which we are in is absurd, to be fighting for green emphasis with one hand, but to force men to produce electricity through oil cans with the other hand. There is a situation that is totally unacceptable in the land of green energy that we want to call ourselves. The problem is up, and the problem is just gonna get bigger. So I must emphasize it to the highest level. Minister not to delay structure in the building line and emphasize that the meeting will be a way to correct it even now.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u47	Mr. President. Long-term energy policy needs to take into account the holding of energy companies. This is made clear in a report by the Directorates of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir for the legal framework of energy, beginning in 2011. It would be peaceful to know whether this report on the left will guide Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir of 2011 will be guided by the formation of the long - term energy policy of the left - hand Katrín's rule of Jakobsdóttir's daughter. Self - centered men were not impressed with this report. Mr. President. What is the will of the government when it comes to possessing important energy companies? It is important to get a clear answer to this because independents have wanted to privatize important energy companies and have come in good shape with it before a collapse. The REI language is so called. Then, in 2007, it was the government of the Independence Party and the United States that laid the basis for the privateisation of the Southnesian heat system by returning the government's sale to its share in the heat industry. In turn, the independent group in Smokejanestown sold the entire business to private people. This is the biggest political mistake ever made in Iceland in recent years. Everyone realizes that private energy companies are not producing energy for community reasons or to improve housing conditions or quality of life in general, and do not provide them beyond their energy efficiency to the nation, private companies such as HS Energy that are now going to expand and activate in Western Europe, such as any other private company, which has the goal of maximising the profits for the shareholders that are in this case, in this case, more than part of the foreign organisations. HD Energy is not activated on the Westfjords due to community considerations. [[The president calls.]] History shows that independence cannot be trusted when it comes to possessing energy companies. [[The president calls.]] This knows the left green, and these two groups are expected to co-operate long-term energy companies into the coast. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u48	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson for starting this important matter. Work on long-term energy policy is a major factor in the sustainable development and nature of the country. The use of clean energy and the wisdom of it must be emphasized. One part of it is an electric car van, both private cars and public cars. There's the prospects for the future. A major factor in the efficiency of cleaner energy is electricalization. In many parts of the country, the distribution system of electrical energy in the condition that can't be connected to electricity and is running light machines with diesel oil to keep ships running. It is of interest to examine the ideas of the activation of the hydropowers of the century at a seaporting fortress, e.g. for seafronts, and the use of tides for electricity production. But the transport system must be one of the priorities and must be a major part of the long-term energy policy. There are now several areas in the country that are not connected with a circuit, so they can live with reduced electrical security. In modern society, this is not acceptable. In areas where such a situation exists, reserves derived from diesel should be assured. So it is not acceptable that we use fossil fuels as energy sources to as much as we do today. In this regard, it is necessary to dive into the electronic law in reviewing long-term energy policy. In electricity laws, the main focus is to connect large users and industry to the electrical power system, while at the same time building up the distribution system all over the country. We have to make a long-term energy policy, we need to ensure that the energy already activated is used as sustainablely as possible. [[The president calls.]] It provides the first and last entry of the transport system.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u49	Mr. President. Thank you for your excellent conversation. Just as long - term policy on every subject is of utmost importance, so long - term energyism is so important. But there must be a considerable future, not only based on government wishes list, but also on practical predictions of future developments that will affect the situation in this country at one time. Pirata's policy says that a policy of 20 years should be developed for energy production and energy efficiency, which is revised and updated every four years. That would be a good start. But society is developing, and especially, growing. In that environment, the situation is more difficult. In the case of the highest. A minister showed that the smallest stage was a 14% increase, but the largest 66% increase, a significant increase from today. So we need to examine Iceland's total energy supply based on whether and how we want to improve the supply and the overall impact it makes. We do not need to consider where this will be applied further, but where to find ways to reduce energy consumption, with reasonable energy consumption in different cases, and to reduce waste. Energy saving by more efficient instruments, such as light bulbs, as we have done, is of the good but more supply will also produce more demand. People are extremely busy developing new ways to use the available energy, especially when it is inexpensive. The tendency is to increase the use of all resources until all resources are fully used. Long-term energy policy must include some kind of way of managing that behavior. We don't have much time here, but there's a lot to discuss. I may be coming to specific points in the next talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u50	A respectable president. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, for starting this extremely important case at this time. However, there is no time to cross the field in this regard. So I want to focus my attention on one specific area of energy policy. Now we are at the height of the swing, as some say. Investors screen for their money for the best they can do. Reports from the Valleys are coming up from the west that investors intend to build a productive wind power plant. A rural government tries to take advantage of the sense of the case, and it is an enormously high - scale real estate cost of a golden root that the financial governments of the country are ill - equipped to push off the table. Note that here are only the known five windmills, two on the Sea of Burgundy, two in Concentrate town, and one in the Mela band. Frustrated areas are planned to build up up to 40 windmills. If I don't have a failure to account, this is a 800-0% rise in windmills in the country and a higher percentage if you consider the amount of energy this wind power plant could give. It turns out that the lawgiver is once again taken in the sack and now on a stage that is not really new. That's where I'm talking about the wind power that carried our forefathers to this country. It turns out that here there is no direction for something called a wind power plant, and if you look up in Icelandic laws, the code of laws will produce something rich in this respect. Of course, here I am calling for a legal review of this matter, which takes into consideration the fact that there is not a small, organizational wind source on every ground but rather a wise subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u51	Mr. President. It is important to discuss these matters and to have this opportunity to examine in general what we Icelanders can do for a long time in terms of energy. The government's declaration of long-term energy policy promises that it will be set in the elected period through all councils. I especially want to celebrate that emphasis. In fact, I wondered what steps will be taken to cooperate with the council, but this is just beginning. I know it's the highest. Minister, as I know him, will promote such cooperation. I think it's extremely important that we make as much peace as possible with long-term policy on energy issues. On the contrary, because all of us have the ambition to be around our resources with great respect. We want to preserve our natural resources and use them in a sustainable and rational way. The usefulness of the resources is the basis of our prosperity, our welfare system, and our community. We have some experience, including from fishing, which in many respects is good but in many ways is not good enough too. Happily, we are faced with the wise use of the resources to fish. The codfish population has made much progress and has become stronger, and this is because we've been careful about that important resource. It remains that we need to achieve social reconciliation about a fair price for the resource. Therefore, I would like to encourage the Minister to participate in the long-term vision of energy policy. I had ten other points, Mr. President, to come in. But how important it is that we be guided from the beginning so that we can agree on this vital program that we are all coming to, all members of Congress. I'd like to encourage the highest. Minister to impress on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u52	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, for bringing up this important issue, and especially the highest. Minister for participating in discussions; in fact, she has shown herself very ready to talk to the Council on Policy in her seminaries. I was so lucky to have the privilege of being able to, on my journey through Denmark and Sweden recently, sit down with a local people, and discuss the sentence of energy policy in each country. What a valuable lesson that was! I want to watch this a little big. For me, it's about the first time we have to put it down to us how a community we want to see in Iceland in the future, in the year 2030 or 2040, so that, on the other hand, it's based on the flow of carbon-free Iceland policy and the Paris complex. Do we want Iceland to become a green community, to have reached noncarbon, to reduce the import and use of fossil fuels and the use of renewable energy on society's business? This is in harmony with what the government has stated about noncarbonization in 2040 and the fulfillment of commitments to the Paris Convention in 2030. Once we have reached where we want to go, we can look for ways to get there. What do we need to use with our country's energy resources to create a green and environmental society? How can we get as much peace as possible there, using our energy as a environmentally friendly way? Do we want to build an SME in certain areas? Do we want to secure more energy delivery? Once we've answered those questions, we'll go over how to transport the energy. Do we need to build a better distribution system? Are certain areas more connected to the system? How do we secure the necessary transport exchange and access to electricity across the world's industry, marine soil, and agriculture? In order for all of this to be possible, the plans that have already been agreed or are already adopted must also be harmonised; the policy of energy exchange in transport, framework, line-wise policy, electrical transport policies, industrial development, policy, community policy, commitment to the Paris Convention, carbon-free Iceland policy. [[The president calls.]] All of this needs to talk as well as other policies and agreements, fall into the puzzle set up as the community we want to see.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u53	Mr. President. Like others, I would like to start by thanking the advocate for the discussion and by drawing attention to this enormously important matter. I believe this is one of the biggest issues in the council this year, to reach conclusions on issues involved. It's very difficult to go through this lawsuit in two minutes; here's a big question for multiple points. First and foremost, I want to call attention to the largest electrical transport system in the country today and what position it is in. At the southwest corner, there is a tremendously powerful system, one of the best things in the world. In other lands, however, there is an extremely weak, poor system that can transport some 31.74% of its efficiency. It has been said that in order for us to make full use of this energy, we needed so much of our capacity on the groundline that the electricity of our country could be used wisely. The loss of energy means that we lose billions of dollars each year because of it. In my home region, in the Eyjafjörður, there has been a state of mass for ten years, and it has become this time that in the last 12 to 18 months, diesel generators have been installed more than 100 million to secure electricity in the area. It's not really, as we've been talking about, can you connect a hot dog car? That's the situation. This is top priority. Actually, I think we're all right. The members of the council may want to put on some Viking action with this, discussing this matter much more here. Here are a number of good subjects to discuss further in special discussions at the council. This is clearly one of the biggest issues involved in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u54	Mr. President. This is not the first time a government in Iceland wants to work on energy policy. Then, in late 2009, industrial Ministers appointed a leading team to achieve a complete energy policy for Iceland. The operating group's report went in an open history process. There were a number of reports received from individuals, companies and institutions, which were considered by the management group before the group report was given to industrial ministers and members of the body. The report was discussed at the General Assembly just six years ago, in February 2012. The Government Declaration of May 2009 says, by permission of the President: A global energy policy aims to replace renewable energy sources with exported energy. In energy production by force and aquifers, safety and protection measures will be taken. The energy policy supports a wide range of employment with emphasis on the construction of the eco-friendly high-tech industry. In the energy policy, sustainable management will be guided by avoidance, including progressive use in geo-cessal areas Many countries that we compare with ourselves have developed energy policy. In most countries, there are three major factors, i.e. Energy security, energy markets, and the interaction between energy and environment, focusing on increasing production of renewable energy and reducing energy production through fossil fuels, thus reducing greenhouse gas emissions. It is also important to discuss the fourth factor, which is the use of energy resources to promote social benefits in a broad context, e.g. as a basis for a wide variety of employment life and how the profit of common resources will be returned to the nation. The basic theme of the proposal was that Iceland's energy development will be successfully implemented in a sustainable way by society and the public. It is my hope that the energy policy that is now being won will take into account the report that we discussed six years ago, taking into account that the public is increasingly benefiting from resources owned by the nation. [[The president calls.]] At least I like it, just like a whale. paritaprevir The Birgir of Thorna's son, very unlikely that the governments will agree on such a course.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u55	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, for taking up this case and the highest. Minister of Þórdís Kol Kolbrún Gylfadóttir for her presence and speech. This debate on long-term energy policy is necessary, especially because of the long-term design, or long-term policy, of major issues such as these are more likely to be handled progressively on issues that take longer than stated in the Government Treaty of each government. Governments can be short - lived, as the examples prove. Although the terms will be four years, the next government can take a big U-turn but less if there is a long-term policy. With a short talk period, I would like to step aside from points that are not in the government covenant. Sea power plants or so - called thermal pumps are not mentioned. Lip pumps have long proved their worth, and they are effective in cold areas that are located in many parts of the country. There is, though, some heat, and it is a very interesting option that can reduce the cost of electrical heating by 2,25-480%. So lip pumps are a environmental solution and improve energy efficiency and reduce the cost of electrical heating by individuals as well as the State's subsidies considerably. Then there is a marine power plant that cannot be found in the government covenant of the present government. There are great opportunities to activate electrical energy from seawater, known as ocean-fallers. A few years ago, however, there is a big difference between floods and shores or the largest in Iceland. So ocean currents are very great. The lack of money for much research, however, would be an exciting opportunity for the government to come up with it and contribute to the research of marine plants. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u56	A respectable president. Here we will discuss long-term energy policies, important employment and environment. The project is incredibly diverse. Both the assessment of future energy needs and also the improvement of existing systems in this area are being improved, the efficiency of the dynamic energy that has been activated, and the energy sources need to be remedied as they have been carefully reviewed here. Of course, the distribution and energy of environmental policies need to be coordinated. Access to electricity is the basis for job development and the role in national equality. There's a lot of broken pots. The supply safety needs to be improved. One place's electricity disturbances must not be the same as they now have a chain-acting effect across the country, where the effect is often the most distant of all. Implementation mechanisms on delivery safety are also being developed because they are not present as on the northeast corner. Transport ability into specific areas and along the edge of the frame forms wide bottle necks and prevents transporting electricity to buyers, such as the base. paritaprevir The Njáll Trausti of Friðbertsson well described the situation in the Eyjafjörður, where electricity depletion is a source of job development and the structure of new companies for cleaning. Although electrical power prices for rural homes have been evened in recent years, the same can be said about electrical prices for rural companies. This results in e.g. Amazing discrimination in rural tourism. This is also a major problem for rural communities where schools, swimming pools, and community homes are thrown into rural areas. [[The president calls.]] I believe those classes that are now in the government are in a key position to promote reconciliation in this work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u57	President. The behavior I discussed earlier has many manifestations. A highly predictable electronic cord is entirely predictable as a suggestion: Use more energy because it exists, regardless of all our other interests in Iceland. Based on the data proposed by the leaders of this concept, the proposal does not measure up, neither economic nor physical. However, while the task of self - activity, whether due to political indifference or other factors, technology will continue in these ways. Ideas may arise in the future, which could significantly increase the need for energy. As a result, long - term energy policy must include predictions of trends and policies on how far we are ready to go. The cost of electricity is a factor we must also take into consideration. Icelandic electricity has been very cheap on a global scale, but because of advances in solar energy and battery technology, it is estimated that within a decade European hydropower and geothermal energy could be considered relatively expensive compared to other countries. This could simply result in a marked decrease in the demand for Icelandic energy situation. This point has not been discussed, but it must be part of a staging analysis when talking about these objects and creating this future energy program. In this context, we might mention the role of industry in general. Industrialization in Iceland is very homogeneous and takes the main part of electricity into just one branch of industry. Long-term energy policy requires that there is an increase in economic diversity or at least no improvement in some of the factors leading to the stabilisation of future diversity. Now that the time has passed, there is an extremely small time to discuss this vital matter. Others snarl. A surprising number of important points have been introduced by members of Congress. I just hope this conversation can continue.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u58	Mr. President. Thank you. Ari Trausti Guðmundsson's advisor for taking up long - term energy policy and dealing with it on a very broad scale in his perfunctory donation. And I thank you very much. Her minister's contribution, which I consider very important for this discussion. This debate confirms in its own sense the importance of achieving Generalis's policy-making in this important issue. We are in our time of turning on technological advances. As a result, there is an uplift. The apocalyptic are in the presence of new energy sources. Among other things, this has been the turning point for wind - power plants and sea tides that function independently of the weather and the wind, as we know. The key element is the responsible and sustainable use of the resources of the country. We're here to mention an important resource, perhaps the most important, but it's the natural nature of the country, the natural nature of Iceland. If we think about this from that viewpoint, it has become very important to us as a currency source and a professional article that ensures the rest of the country. If we look a little closer in time, we will not miss the point. For instance, I have to admit that I don't fully understand government policy on that matter. [[The president calls.]] This is not clearly stated in a government covenant. We're talking about a whale process that's been highly critical, including by former chairman of the Land Protector of a series of articles in the Morning newspaper. [[The president calls.]] I allow me to call for clear answers from the government leaders on the plans for that particular project. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u59	Mr. President. The aim of energy policy is partly to a carbon objectless Iceland of 2040. It has been shown here and as many energy policies as possible to achieve good results. I thank the senators for their share and will discuss only a few of their talks. Ownership: I believe that the main policy of ownership should be community property. There are very clean lines on my part. As for a large and small wind power plant, it is missing all the frames of such energy. I will now request a full report to the Council that a report on both marine and marine power plants and wind power plants will be compiled. This report will then be included in this discussion on energy policy and its shape. Resource: I think it's a pretty positive thing about the energy companies. This should be carefully examined. I would like to remind you that the previous energy policy report was estimated to be very general. A long list of projects and a relatively general energy policy now needed to be better developed. I want to thank you, too, the highest. Minister for her share. She talked about 1,720 megawatts. I was a little more careful, at 500,1000. But this tells us, at least, that we're not here at the end of the continuum transfunctioner in Iceland. All you have to do is make a good choice. Then, with the intensification of the unexplored transport system: it needs to be done to about 30 to 40 years of age, and we all know that it needs to become a combination of air lines and earthlines. Whatever may be the case, it is very important to make a good appearance to the assembly in these matters. I thank you again, both members of Congress and the Supreme Court. Minister for the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u60	Mr. President. I really want to take it as a matter of course. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson came in at the end of this meeting's arrival to the main transport system. I'll -- I don't know if it's gonna be at the end of this week, the next or the next one - measuring for a Senate resolution on the construction of the electrical transport system. This is the first time that it is done. That's exactly what I'll say. Councilmen with it. Although we were discussing energy policy, I found it interesting to listen to the weight of the transportation system in this discussion. I think it reflects the most important tasks in which there are both big and urgent. We simply have an area where the system as it is now inhibits job structure. It is particularly in the north where projects in the next year are Sciss line, Holeasandline, and Combining Line. Once it's done, we've really strengthened that area. Then there is another example that needs to be furthered. It's turning towards the transport system. I think it just shows what it burns at the council and the community and especially in the country. Regarding working on these energy policies and the fact that these three groups are in the government: I think that this is going to be a big project, and this is a major challenge. Being with these groups together -- I'm not saying it's gonna be easy to do the job, but I'm at least smart, and I'm glad that there's a parapolitic stand to go on the project, work over a course like this. Reaching those views together will be a challenge. No one said it would be easy. But if humans agree that they need to win these things, we will only be careful and then will lead a certain conflict on earth. To mention it at the end, it is my opinion that energy policy should be in the long term. [[The president calls.]] It should not be that when this government is removed and formed again, it will be in her mind that no long - term energy policy is needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u61	Mr. President. I've come up here to ask the highest. Economic and financial secretary on renting the property of the state. Asking the ones I've been giving the highest price. Ministers are as follows: 1st How many of the Kingdom's real estates are entrusted to governors or other government officials for their own use? 2. How is the financial height of the above - mentioned property determined, and of whom? 3. Is there any obligation regarding the possession or possession of the estate? Do some managers or employees have a chance of renting ahead, and what rules apply to rent and rent practicality? Mr. President. This question is for granted, as is true of considerable interest to owners, i.e. The common people. Clearly, our personal property has not been completely identified, i.e. what real estates, where they are located, or what rules such products are involved. Prior to a New Year's session, a media coverage on the decision of a chicken council to pay for the bishop of Iceland was under way. During a discussion on the decision of the Cennial Council, the bishop, including the Bishop, reported: From the duties of the office, see that the Bishop was made to live in the official place of the bishop in the heart of Reykjavíkurburg, in particular at Bergstand Street. It was reported that a bishop would have to pay rent, which is monthly 86,270 k. with fever and electricity. This information is received at the same time as the rent - rent situation where rent prices continue to rise and dissipate in some young children's families. For the same amount of 86,000 U.S., university students will receive, for example, a 29 square - square - foot [29 square m] studio apartment in a minen park with heat and electricity. Mr. President. The desired diocese is far from the only official location. Some people from all over the country enjoy or enjoy at least for a long time like a good looks, or a time to give, according to the way in which it is looked, as also the rulers. So by the year - to - year debate, the person standing here on the property of the State general and the way the house - to - house work is done. There must be complete transparency in the choice of tenants, in terms of rent prices decision-making, as well as on whether tenants are given authority to the tenants on the estate anywhere around the country. Therefore, I reiterate these three questions asked to the highest level. Financial and economic ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u62	A respectable president. I think it's important to get these issues out of the way, and I think it's a pleasure to have the opportunity to explain matters of opinion to them. A senator here points to the matter. I have taken up the answers to these three specific questions. With regard to the number of State real estates, there are about 95 houses or houses owned by state funds that are rented management agencies or other government officials for their own use here on land. In most cases, property is used for health care professionals, about 50 property, about 20 holdings are rented to teachers and other employees in the field of education. For example, there are about 25 estates rented to other employees, such as the county, the police officer, and the national park or country guard. Only about 12 of these 95 holdings are hired to executives or comparable employees. Some of these assets may also be used only for short - term employees, such as leftovers in medical facilities in the country. The vast majority of these assets are located in the region where the State has public activity. In many cases it is also an apartment that is part of a building, such as a health care facility or boarding school. Such possessions are often evilly possessions. At that time, no apartment building has been purchased or built on government roads for years. In recent years, the government's facilities for use for workers have been severely reduced, but the principle is that the State does not put its employees in an apartment building unless they are engaged in jobs in those parts of the country where local activities are necessary or because of special protective work that requires them to live in the workplace. For the rent raise asked for them, the rent amount of these assets is generally a matter of the State's residence law and of the State's regulations on the same materials which apply specifically to houses used for government employees. Under the law, government officials are required to pay the government funds for such a home for their own use. The mortgage will generally be decided by the regulations and will be subject to the marketing authorisation. However, in the absence of normal rent markets, rent rents are permitted to cover burning benefits, location, and use of property. Thus, in accordance with the government law on having an apartment home, rent fees either take into account the market rent in the affected area or as a fixed proportion of fire reviews as well as the rented area. In most cases tenure agreements are made by the agency that has the property, but the Ministry of finance and the Office of the Agency has to confirm all long-term contracts. Finally, there are questions about the forwardage of property or parts of it and how such sources are used. To answer, the Ministry has generally considered personal rights to be related to the work of the individual. Because of this, the branch office expected the government's agencies to rent houses in their administrations, which make it clear that a tenant is forbidden to hand out rent rights in part or entirely without the agreement of a landlord. It also states in a contract that it is not considered as a rent-in or alimony, although the tenant home of its close family members lives in the rented home with them or their family, the number of household members within the normal range remains within the normal size and type of housing. As noted earlier, the custody of those in charge of property is primarily to be taken care of by treaties like this. As a result and because of the way this project is being done, I have no answer here in exactly how many cases this source has been used.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u63	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for meaningful answers. It was informative to hear the number of our possessions, or 95. It would also, I think, be useful for the owners of these real estates to be allowed to see real numbers. Given the example here before the New Year's Eve - which I'm not considering to be unique about this particular place of office - it's quite clear that at least 500 square feet [500 square meters] of one home on Bergstand Street, which is rented at 86,000. is very far from the market value in that location. So I think it would be necessary for the Icelandic public to have confidence in the government of the country that we can just get information on how this is done with other government sites. As a result of your last answer on the subject, I'd like to ask if it's the highest level. A minister knows that any monitoring has been committed on these property, if there is any active control already, for example. long - term visitors are very popular in many parts of the country, not just in the capital area, but throughout the country, whether individual officials or officials are such. to take advantage of such opportunities.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-05-21.u64	A respectable president. I have to say, I don't have information about the way the operation is conducted, but as I was referring to my case, the general housing of the institutions or citizens involved in each case has been in the hands of them. If it were for humans to spread houses of this kind into some additional income stock, I would feel that there was no doubt about the violation of the regulations that the Ministry of finance has established in this regard. I refer to the form that has been proposed by the Ministry, but it would also be against the spirit of the law and regulations that are based on the law that I was referring to in my case. I just want to come in with the matter for a moment. A member of the council has been for discussion. So it is that the property domains of the National Church care for the affairs of church funds. I think this particular facility is appropriate. A senator mentions the property of church funds. But in the National Church, in the real estate, there are a lot of priest's homes, priests' mansions, and so on. such as people can acquire information about the State Church. This may apply to some other rules than those stated in the laws I have referred to.
