ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-04-67.u1	The discussions take three rounds, each group eight minutes in the first round, five minutes in the second, and five minutes in the last round. The order of the classes will be this in all traffic: the group, the Independence Party, the Central Party, the left movement ◯ green supply, the Piratars, the forward groups, the group of people, and the restoration. For the United States of America, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, 6th. Southk., first round, Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson, 3th. S.. So, second round and third round Brjánsson, 6th. Witchest. The members of the Independence Party are Þórdís Kolb Kolbrún R. Gylfadóttir, travel trade minister, industrial and innovation, first round, Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson of foreign minister, second but third pass by Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, 2nd. We're out of here. For the Central Party, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, 6th. We're out of here. "In the first round, Bergþór Ólason, 4. Witchest. ,non-third round Sæmundsson, 10th. Smoke. The path to the program "umount" For the left movement, a green supply of Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, 7th That's the north side. "In the first round, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, 11th. We're out of here. "The second, and the third, Steinunn Þóra, the Árnadóttir of the Year, the sixth, Smoke. n. Pirata's speakers are in the first round of Thorhldur Sunna Ævarsdóttir, 4th. Smoke. s., in another Smári Mccarthy, 10th. South, and Halldóra Mogensen, 11th, respectively. Smoke. n., third round. The rest of the debaters are Willum Þór Þórsson, 9th. We're out of here. "In the first round, Þórunn Egilsdóttir, 4th. That's the north side. , 2nd and 3rd Ásgerður K. Gylfadóttir, 7th. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! For the Gang of the People, Inga Sæland, the 8th. Smoke. s., in first round, in second Ólafur Ísleifsson, 10th. Smoke. n., and in the third Karl Gauti Hjaltason, respectively. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! For the restoration, first round, Þorsteinn Víglundsson, 7th. Smoke. n., in another Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, 7th Smoke. So, and third round Megador K. Gunnarsdóttir, 7th. We're out of here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-04-67.u2	Mr. President. Good citizens of the country. The government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, has now served for six months. The government was given much support at first, and it was to have a broad appeal and an acceptable view from left to right. The parties had promised a great deal for elections, and the public had hoped that the powers would not stop. Now, six months later, there has been a considerable decrease in support of the government, a clear picture of a special interest alliance. An outstanding example of special care is the support and armored city that was rendered by the Minister of Justice in the decision-making of a judge's order in the National Court, though it had been judged by the Supreme Court. Then there is a plan to reduce the price paid by the project to use the nation's resources. Prime Ministers said for elections that politicians have to constantly promote justice and severely criticize the then state of the government for making a poorling and an elderly person wait for decent favors and for deviousness to the rich. After the election, however, it says that a debate about equations and trust is interesting and responds quickly and surely calls out workers for lower fishing costs while others have to wait. This is fascinating, since our country's fishing industry has gained about 300 billion dollars. in the last eight years. The company has paid its tens of billions of dollars in profits at the same time that hunting costs have dropped dramatically. The government's going to extend the production to less than 3 billion and the large part of the brother's money, the large structure that truly feels no lack. However, it does make those who need to rely on the insurance market and the elderly. The government is not as quick as it is for those who have been remembered and who offer continued noises and shameful terms during rapid growth. Inequities, whether income or possessions, are increasing in this country. It is bad evolution that promotes civil strife. For example, the largest 10% of the nation's population took to heart nearly half of the pure estate produced in 2016 and the largest part of all the wealth. If the government really wanted to balance the game, if Jakobsdóttir's government wanted to detract, she would have to use both the tax and the improving system in that case. More tax levels, higher personal discounts, step-separated capital taxes, and gross taxation of significant holdings could not be balanced. The increased importance of child improvement and housing improvements are other vital commodities that governments can use. But does the government want to level the game? The answer to that question can be found in the government budget until the next five years. The answer is no. This is not a time period to tie the game. Child damages will be too low, housing support will be extremely weak, housing problems will remain unsolved, and social security benefits will continue to be poor. In kitchen calendars a year ago, the current prime minister discussed just what had to be done to improve the equation. Then she said in a word: We need to reorganize the tax system. The real misunderstanding is seen in the spread of wealth. In Iceland it is the richest ten percent of all three fourths of all wealth. Maybe that's the way someone likes it. Maybe that's how the government wants it. If we don't want to do that, we need to reevaluate how we deal with capital gains, tax money over certain limits, and Iceland would have to be the leading member of the international cooperation of countries on such taxation. Of course, there is a need to ensure that the profit of this country's resources will be reasonably available to the nation. Those were her own words on May 29, 2017. At that time, I deeply agreed with Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir. Therefore, I am sorry for her lack of influence as prime minister, who has nothing to do with his government in these matters, except for the change in tokens of capital taxes, with little benefit for a government fund that will not happen immediately next year. Despite the tax system changes that clearly appear in the financial program, which give the richest three times more than the least ones, we do not know exactly what the government is going to do because ministers speak out and south. The minister of finance certainly does not want the better - quality society, as he calls it, the Norwegian welfare that most of the country wants to see. He adheres to the financial program and says that higher taxes on the rich are out of the question. However, the preeminent minister rolls around and does not speak about anything else but does not address the minister of finance. Mr. President. Good citizens of the country. Today, mankind's greatest joint project involves ways to reduce global warming and acidification. Indeed, there is reason to be concerned about the ambition of the government in dealing with the climate crisis. If we do not live up to our obligations in the way we look at it, the Icelandic government has to buy climate clearances in a global market. It will cause financial harm, as it were, harm to us. We have prided ourselves on the energy exchange of house warming and renewable energy sources in our clean, beautiful Iceland. That image is on a fast decline. The erosion of the sea, the warming of the sea, the rising surfaces of the sea, the pollution of plastics in the ocean, and the plundering are all threats to which we must work in a powerful and clear manner, and there we should be on the lead. The import of gasoline in Iceland was like importing fish at dawn, quoted by the former United Nations climate manager. Government procedures must be effective to reduce the use of gas and diesels in our country and the urgent energy exchange in transport. The establishment of the State into a city line and the expansion of public transportation throughout the country is essential. We in the United States call for greater ambition in government action on climate issues. We also call for real measures that increase the equation and improve the benefits of lesser ones. We call for a more reasonable tax system that stands below the welfare community that is available to all and that no one will be left behind. We call for the new constitution with a resource directive that protects the nation from an alliance of special interest. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-04-67.u3	A respectable president. My fellow Americans, closer and far. In the final part of the trilogy Sigurður with the title Pálsson's Son, the Book of Booths, Sigurður rolls to one place the definition of the right and the left. He quotes a French philosopher who believes that the difference in freedom and justice, especially social justice, is inclusive. This philosopher describes the fact that if the groups had left for either purpose, the traditional right would choose freedom, even if it had somehow been bitten by righteousness, but the traditional left would choose righteousness, even if it took some form of freedom. But the philosopher adds a significant point, which is that regular expressions of thought and motion make unmistakably a requirement for both, full of freedom, and full justice, giving no discount, even though it may seem unrealistic. This analysis is of particular interest to us because it is exactly what we have achieved, most of the nations, to unite the two noble goals of individual freedom and social justice and social reconciliation. Because the seaman's day was yesterday, you might wonder, " Is it the sea voyage that taught us through the centuries that we are all in the same boat? ' Perhaps the forces of nature have taught us that in the face of the awesome forces of nature, no one is stronger than any other and everything else is going to work together. Whatever the reason, freedom and justice are just as universal in Icelandic society. Me and us. The individual and the community. We both value it, but at the same time, we try to overcome the degree of separation and separation that is based on ◯ wood and theirs. I believe this explains why we make one of the top seats when a comparison between nations is made of desirable results and the quality of life. Here is much freedom, a great source of value, a great source of power, but also a huge equation and a great success of a strong welfare system. It doesn't have to be surprising that I believe that the ideals of the Independence Party played a key role in their extraordinary broad appeal to all classes and emphasis on uniting rather than breaking up. But, of course, this is in the final analysis of the combined success of all Icelanders, industry and employment markets, which provide valuable and shaped many social advances; the educational community, which brings us knowledge; the art and cultural sectors, which inspire us and bring us a new view. Good citizens of the country. In fact, only briefly since Iceland was one of the poorest countries in Europe. Our powerful and good society did not fall from heaven, but it was built up by the incessant creation of former generations. We cannot keep it, no matter how much we improved it, unless we continue to make the most of it. One factor is living up to our business life reasonable and reasonable conditions. In these days, part of the government's stand is trying to build a mud storm because of the reasonable and normal suggestion to aim the fishing fees for new information on the survival of this article rather than old. It is disappointing that some seem impossible to get out of their graves. During the last summer, a growing ocean - out minister supported the objective of an interview with RUSH that the fishing price would be based on new information, since it has been a fairly widely accepted defect in the application process. Now, however, the leaders of the same party speak as if this was a terrible scandal. That presentation doesn't hold any conclusions. Good listeners. Iceland will be fine if we continue to create people throughout the country for a good society to live in. This includes every individual having the opportunity to make his own decisions and to use his or her talents in whatever area they may be. We are well along in the countryside, but we are also faced with great challenges. In the coming years, technological advances will be more dramatic than we have seen before. They require that we put more emphasis on cultivating creativity, initiatives, criticism of thinking, innovation, joy of action, freedom of movement, and independence. They require that individual freedom and freedom of movement flourish, but they also require that we be concerned with social factors toward those who may not be able to get along well enough in the new world. It is important to make sure that no one closes in the door - to - door transitions. The government has given clear emphasis on preparing us for the changes and making use of the opportunities. An example of this is the development of innovation policies, the establishment of the prospective committee, and plans for increased coincidences for research and development. We have also fulfilled our promise to handle matters as the most extensive political cooperation, e.g. by ensuring all members of the Parliament are involved in the long-term energy policy for Iceland. Three categories of government are across political ideologies, as well as an offer to the government for increased cooperation, to be interested in it, to mark a new era in Icelandic politics, and to give us the opportunity to shape strong policy over a longer period of time. Elínardóttir Sólveig Sólnardóttir, a former general of Congress, recently wrote about the ever - increasing confusion that is being heard. I am down in several places in her article, with the permission of a president, describing the cautionary approach of some radical fish: ▪ They and us, us and the others. ... Those who don't believe what you believe must either be cohesive or evil. ... The media are evil, they do not serve the purpose. ... Yes, for interested persons in political debate analysis, many warning lights must begin. Good citizens of the country. It takes a long time to build up, but a short time to tear down. We have managed to build a good society that is in the best rank in the world. That's a fact. Long - term thinking and determination on the basis of wide agreement between diverse viewpoints is the approach that will ensure Iceland continues to succeed in coming years, results for all of us. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-04-67.u4	V.E.G. President. Good citizens of the country. About eight months ago, a new category, the Central Party, was formed. In less than 30 days, the group of people were able to offer a total election and have the best results in a saw of a new platoon vote. Got 10.9% votes and seven senators elected. May 26th. The people who serve in the Central Class met at his sign in 12 rural communities and in cooperation with the others in two. In addition, the band represented other lists throughout the country, receiving nine representatives and a new record. Today, when Karl Liljendal Hólmgeirsson's son, the middle tribe's deputy, was the youngest of all people to take up residence at the General Assembly. Congratulations, Karl. The result of the Middle Party has attracted and captured the attention of scholars and laymen who have discussed the victories of the party. Those considered to be vaccinees have now changed their minds. I want to use this opportunity, my fellow Americans, and thank all the great men who created these victories with enormous work and support of its policy and solution to the movement that has indeed captured the attention of the people of the land. Thanks to you, my fellow Americans, the Central Party has come to stay. A respectable president. Despite the fun of setting records, there are other things that are important and that may not be less important. The fact that the Central Party has taken root in Icelandic politics will change Icelandic political history over the years and decades. With good matters based on reason and reasoning, we will succeed. We rely on what we have done and look to what we are going to do. Gangsters, elected representatives, and supporters of the party will listen to all good ideas, discuss them, and shape lines and solutions based on reasoning. Thus we will find the best ways to ensure the individual's freedom to action and self - preservation as soon as a joint fund guarantees the welfare of the individual. However, the old groups have separated from their baselines and policies and have lost sight of the importance of solutions in modern society. Their power is in defending and ensuring positions and chairs based on present conditions and ideologies, not on future solutions. That's the group that's not going to be. At the national assembly of the party held in April 2000. The class's policy was formed by members, and that policy is what we are working for. We do not take the lead of the Independence Party, my fellow Americans, who made it their first task after the Party's national meeting to reject the root of a new national hospital and to submit to the will of the system. Have many present and former independents wondered how shameless leadership went against the grass root. But this is not the only example of the lack of the ability to lead the Independence Party to stand up in the hair of the system. Another example is that of the government's premium on stocks in Arion Bank. Why wasn't the opportunity new? Was it to blame for unwillingness, or was it part of the agreement with half of the left administration since 2009 that the Independence Party has now brought back to power? V.E.G. President. The government received messages in the 26th of May. where the company of prime ministers was waiting. The other groups also lost, the advance party lost much in rural areas that have so far been the strongest fortresses, and the independent party was given in many places considerably less out of the votes and lost more parts in many places. The government of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir was designed, not for policies or solutions, but for power, position, and chairs, as voters have realized. A respectable president. Good listeners. They were no small, beautiful promises in the government covenant to promote universal sovereignty. Sadly, the situation here has rarely been worse, with little trust. So I can't figure it out, more distinguished President, from where it's at the highest. A minister who spoke before me comes kind of. It is in no way consistent with what we experience at the council, members of the council. It is such that when the government issue was out of control, it would be said that it would be demeanable. Yet, governments have worked hard to halt the cases of government opposition on committees. Among the cases presented by the Central Party in the current council is the introduction of the state's premium to the stocks of Arion's bank and, no matter what professional local analysis for a new national hospital, to name something, a case that is urgent but has been tied in committees of the greater part, despite most people seeing the folly of building the National Hospital on a Ring Road, with the 46,000 missions of concrete cars waiting. However, the system is being controlled. Ladies and gentlemen. Few things show more than the practices of much of the part, the counterargument of the Government's declaration of universal sovereignty. The government that is formed on the sole basis of power will not take the necessary steps for the future. It lacks both direction and thirst, and in the meantime it controls those who take the lead. I'd like to mention a hunting bill, top dog. President. No explanation has been made for the reason why a ocean - out minister did not bring up the matter but was given a professional commission. Was that too difficult for the government, or might the minister's band of trust not see to deliver the case? A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. Iceland is now a land of opportunity, but the government is going to use the ideal period for committees and staff instead of making use of it. We want to make decisions, we want to make decisions, and we want to be responsible. There are exciting times ahead in the Middle East, my fellow Americans, further development of the work around the country, and we plan that the next total election will become a powerful social activity in most of the rural areas of the country. We will continue to shape the direction of the party and look to those who are best familiar with the exports of needed solutions. Iceland will be all watched. We're going to do politics and work on our assignments. We're not going to be assigned to the ◯system, we're going to manage the system with solutions, but if the system is the best solution, we'll listen to them. We can see that a broad group of people want to explore the direction and approach of the Central Party. With these, we are going to develop a powerful category that will shake in Icelandic politics by the courage and courage of those who dare. We have shown it and will continue to show it. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-04-67.u5	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. At present, the government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, has served for six months. There are differences in politics, but the political parties share in common with the common people that we do not always agree on all things, yet we must succeed in reaching and leading matters in a democratic way. This can, of course, be a problem. Indeed, at the left, we feel the pain of a green supply, and so do members of the High Priests and Independence Class. While government witnessing is unusual in historical context, it is not without reservation that political powers, which scale from left to right, stand for government cooperation, can be successful if handled properly. It was quite clear after the last total election that the public expected it and required the elected representatives to form a functioning government that produced important and long - term, timely measures in behalf of society and promoted political stability. Government cooperation is the response of the three groups to that requirement. With regard to our unions in the left movement, we would especially like to have a hand in the balance of the world's quality, with the emphasis on combating inequities rather than social justice. In the Treaty of the Government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, plans for a significant structure of society are described. This refers to a transport and technology system that serves employment and the general population, welfare, education, health and legal systems that share the basis of economic and social success, is public property and requires long-term investments. Furthermore, the government follows the policy of improving the equation and making sure that the people of the country have access to the quality of education and health services on an equal basis. The first budget of the government gives evidence of a follow-up to this policy. Hospital services and medical services were donated to support them. For example, the cost of dental costs for the elderly and disability were increased, adding contributions to university and high school, and financial programs for the next five years follow this course. It is a focus of innovation in welfare services and public management, and a reimbursement of pay on research and development that I believe will help to provide more and more support for Icelandic employment. Then university and high school will become a major source of growth and special effort in transportation, as well as a handsomely populated business. Indeed, financial programs have met up with considerable criticism. Some feel that she is not going far enough, and they want to see even more conflicting parts of the world that are set aside. Others feel that they are too busy. As we stand for the case, despite a significant increase in expenses, the average plan is consistent with an average measure of government implementation and the plans for the structure of the environment. Good citizens of the country. Fresh winds are blowing into the labor movement. The leaders of some class members within ASI have dealt strongly with the apparently public and generalized decisions made by some members of the board. It is normal for the public to watch the managers of their partner take up pay raise, with huge monthly budgets, at the same time as the employee's responsibilities in maintaining economic stability. We must pay full attention to these indications and respond to them, and one of them is to submit a body of fools as suggested by the greater part of the Economic and Business Committee. In cooperation with the labor movement, we need to, and we will go and look at the mixing of income taxes and the translocation with the goal of finding and destroying poverty traps there. The aim of these measures must be to improve the position of low- income groups and lower intermediate groups. For economic stability to be possible, social stability must be ensured. The workforce and personnel have had monthly meetings that have been discussed on these issues. It is important that the communication is good, and the government knows how to listen to people and how to act, as revealed by a health minister who contributed in the days to the relief of the long - term dispute between the midwives and the government agreements. At times, we who are behind the government work hear that the government has little to walk under the government in which its proposals and delays its features are shown and shown. In the order of many committees and groups concerning one thing and another. I don't think that's fair. True, governments have appointed committees and groups at present, but we need to consider that a short time has passed since the government began work and because it has very many important issues on its list of activities, it is wise to prepare well, since a key premise is that it will be successful to resolve complex and important issues in cooperation with all classes at the World Council and with those involved. My fellow Americans. Eight groups are now serving as members of a council, making their assembly more colorful, and there is no other reason than to celebrate it. Granted, it may be more difficult to reach common conclusions when there are so many classes. Contrary to what many think, it is often possible to reach a good agreement on handling cases at the General Assembly, and an example of this is the usefulness of personal assistance recently done here. You see, there is much good work to be done on the committees of the council, where issues are discussed and often in agreement. Sadly, though, when a committee's bill was taken out of conflict, what we saw during the last week will not always be so successful, and what would be the case with Congress, it would be late, and it would be a big debate in the Senate Hall. I think it's just this sort of controversy that shapes the greatest form of work people have at the General Assembly. Granted, at the General Assembly, we are expected to do so, but most of the time the matter is resolved without the conference room becoming a scene of conflict. It will also be best, and while politics may be a part of the difference between communication and the course of action, we should do so in a positive way. In the winter and spring conventions, we have been working on important and complex issues, such as financial and financial agendas for the coming years. Government policy has been developed in the issues discussed in a government covenant. Since the beginning of each terms is often marked by preparation, we can expect that in the autumn when a council meets, there will be a number of cases available for discussion. My fellow Americans. The brightest, warmest time of the year, the time when people take time off from work, relax, and enjoy the company with their closest members, hopefully each one of us will have the strength to enjoy it well. After just a few days, east of Russia begins a World Cup soccer contest, and for the first time, we help play this big game. This is truly wonderful, and most of the country's population will likely be following the gangs of the male population during the summer, and of course we will unite and hope to the extent possible. How could it happen that so few of us Icelanders are so successful? Could it not be that much of the explanation is found in soccer views? Each one of them works for a common goal and does his best to achieve it. We senators and I should make our thinking our own, remembering that our motive here is not merely to promote our own views but to work together to increase the prosperity and prosperity of all Icelanders. - Happy summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-04-67.u6	Mr. President. Dearest people in the country. Honesty, respect, justice, equality - these are the clear, common values that over 1,200 people agreed about in 2009 to be guided by their work as a new perspective for Iceland. That work was not done in voids. It was the response to the nation's cry for improvement in society for all, a society that was based on baselines that had been preconceived to bring about the collapse. A small but powerful group of self-employed people made shit in this work of their countries, and now, less than a decade later, these values have returned to the corrosively locked drawer. Now we have a prime minister sitting in the shelter of broken promises, promises that she made to her own voters, who, most of all, chose her to play the role of a respirator for the development of a power system. We are once again left with a minister of finance, who repeatedly shows that his words are meaningless, covering up unpleasant information about himself and his actions, declaring that a cooperation between the government is not a moral commitment to him and his party. We see the watchdogs of power united in defending the minister of justice who lies in complete darkness at council and nation. ▪ I didn't break any law, and that's what it says over and over again - and over again. But she broke the law. It's undisputed. We have a social minister who makes the interests of children come up with the end and the prize of a willing spirit. And almost the day after the government election, a special gift package for builders, billions of packages, appeared at national expense. That expensive package could not be seen before elections. I can also mention how members of Parliament have made a tax - free wage with a much higher - than - common wage. When active discipline comes up, a person paints his own corruption as a battle for the country's settlements, shoots the messenger, and says that he is able to hold it into an empty nonsense. Dearest people in the country. The people who fill this council hall will talk about increasing the respect of the council. It grieves little confidence in the Council, and it marvels at a shrinking campaign. It's a concern about the cool political involvement of young people. Where, though, is the explanation? How do we undermine the confidence and respect of the Allied people? How does one paralyze people's interest in politics? How is the willingness of young people to influence their community reduced? Power has been using the same unpleasant recipe for years. Hv. paritaprevir Vilmundur Gylfason described this methodology as memorable for the guards of power in his pivotal speech in November 1982, when he said, by permission of the president: They will attack us with their shouts by shutting down the media. They will try to mock us, try to make everything look like a riot or a bully. These know the people who seek their rights, the people who feel that the system has failed and, rarely, experience the cruel attitude of the same system for their pleas for reform. The people who want abduction on child care and sex crime and police practices. The people who want environmental benefits, security, prisons, and refugees. And the people who want explanations and improvements in the rules of honesty. All these people find that the system defends themselves, responds in arrogance, steals responsibility, and assumes that office points one another to the school game of those who never take responsibility for their actions, and seems to have as their sole objective to defend the system for the people to whom they are to serve. And if you walk too close to the power, it's just a restraining order. And if you get too close to them, you're just being threatened. And if you walk too close to them, you attack a person's character, honor, and evil intentions. None of this increases the people's trust and respect for the Generals and politicians. There's something else to be done. First of all, this government, with members of Congress, this system of government, must examine itself carefully. Hv. Councilmen and the highest. Ministers have to stop systematically demeaning young people and their problems and talk about their being just a pussy. Moreover, laughing when people volunteer to serve the community is not encouraging to the public's delinquency sense. Nor can it be said that there is never anything that political people say, no matter what you choose, because you always get the same results. Nor can it be said that if you, as the voter, dare complain about this, the rulers of the nation tell you that you don't understand anything, you don't know anything and you can't do anything, and you should, in fact, keep your mouth shut. Maybe you're just being insane not to see how great everything is. No, we who are employed here are to set a good example and take responsibility, speak the truth and say the right thing, and keep our word. Do not hide us behind technical bullshit that we have never exactly promised not to lead the Independence Party into power. Don't claim for elections to support the Commission's bill that a new constitution becomes a law, but after election, it says that the Constitution is best kept in a committee drawer for another eight years. Don't say that before elections, they're going to raise their hunting costs, and they're going to go down billions of minutes before the end of the council. If the highest. The government is really concerned with increasing respect and trust in the Generals and the politics in general just one thing to do: Stop showing consideration for those who take responsibility and who are ambitious for sharing in their own dishonest society, contempt, injustice, and pride. Instead, show them honesty, respect, justice, and equality.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-04-67.u7	V.E.G. President. My fellow Americans. Which would be yesterday, more than six months ago, since we chose to join the Generals. The country's message for building major infrastructures was clear. The call was loud and clever for equal share in prosperity and increase in the value of the past few years. However, the political conclusion was not decisive, either to the right or to the left. Improved standard of living, increased prosperity, and equalizing are truly worthwhile goals. We work on them regularly. It is healthy, not just when it is chosen, to pause and reflect on questions and answers such as: What rights do we want to make sure? What are the standards of biographers? What material and social foundation is essential for us? What kind of community do we really want to build up? All of us can agree that the assignment in our wealthy country is to make sure that everyone has equal opportunities, security, success, and a high standard of living, otherwise unacceptable. Despite the lack of a measure of such a community, and perhaps to some extent, we must acknowledge and accept the collective responsibility it requires giving the economic success of the years to the building of community social and material foundations, to an increase in equations and improved biographies. On this project, this responsibility, this journey, was the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, three categories of left - sided movement - to - right volunteers, independent party, and forward group, a government of three categories that embraces the political scene. Good citizens of the country. A key requirement for success is a strong, powerful team. A team that has a clear view of the projects, accepts the responsibility, establishes a meeting of priorities, and commits itself to cooperate with them. On this basis, all of us, all the government groups, and must share matters and sacrifice less interests for the more important priorities we have resolved to work for the common vision, the vision published in the Treaty and the building of social infrastructure, improved quality of living, social and economic stability, the strong society, constant opportunities, success, and security to the future. We have already been in this past six months, of which the terms of the terms of the budget have been adopted for 2018, with the focus of the government. We've agreed to national financial policy until the year 2022, with a stone-based policy. Within reach, we will proceed from and agree to a national budget for the next five years, for 2019◯023, which will be reviewed in the year and year of legal review. The national budget shows the framework of policy, focus, and priorities. Fundamental and financiers test the economy. The budget is based on a plan where the will and aims of an extensive infrastructure are displayed and will be tested as the wind and budgets of homes come up for each year. The foundation needs to be okay. This structure has begun. Good citizens of the country. The key projects and fundamentals of strong society are strong and solid social infrastructure. Much money is spent on expenses and investments to the largest community systems, and it certainly adds to the real value of time. Even now in 2018, increased money for health, education, transportation, and more is being spent in the years ahead. Just as there is a wide variety of opportunities and opportunities for employment, there is a basis for a better standard of living and for a wide range of employment and economic resources. The most important thing is to have a job, make a living. That he could feed himself and his. A roof over his head and a meaningful life for his family At the same time, the increase in money is worked by means of the equalization process so that the income tax system and reform systems play a better part. Increased minimum pay and prolong deliveryor. It is also important to build for employment, thus trusting the support. The increase in funds is spent in research and innovations to promote work life throughout the country and to meet challenges related to accelerated technological development and change. Markvist is engaged in environmental and natural protection. It is our responsibility to return valuable resources to future generations and to ensure sustainableity. But such thinking must also take place in the international context. In 2040, action has begun in climate, working for the purpose of Iceland's non-carbon activities. And we use greater power in international development. Good citizens of the country. The work on good society is ongoing. There are many challenges ahead. We have experienced long economic growth, high - commercial growth, lower inflation, and greater potential for buying. When it comes to the pace of life, we are very hard to deal with in times of trial. However, suppose you want to get a better grip on your time. The state of state funds is more solid now than it is for years, which gives us the opportunity to increase expenses significantly for infrastructure. At the same time, it is important that they be brought up, to preserve stability, to buy. They continue to pay off debt. Self - control, caution, stability, transparency, and firmness are important values in the work of public funds. This baseline value should provide a basic provision for government funds. But they are no less important in other areas, whether in public or market investments, in collective agreements or in other aspects of our community responsibility. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-04-67.u8	A respectable president. My fellow Americans, closer and far. This is the first time this woman ever speaks on a so-called kitchen day. It was December 14, the last time I gave my virgin talk, and I remember as if it had happened today that I was optimistic. I had just seen this magnificent government covenant. I just thought it was pretty good if I thought it was a little open at both ends and I could interpret it in any direction. It did not change the fact that he spoke of the equation, prosperity, solidarity, cooperation, and cooperation, and that we should all be allowed to enjoy the butter that pours out here every straw. But what is the trial now six months later? What is the real situation after listening to all these wonderful promises, listening to future candidates in the last election striving to sell themselves to the country, making promises, praising everything beautiful? I was taught that promises will come true when they come to the senses of the promised recipient. This treacherous promise has been given to the entire nation, which in almost every case has been empty talk, absolute mitigation, except for what is a source of greed and wealth, which is not now secret. There's no denying that. I don't need to remind you when it's the highest. The current prime minister promised last year's relief and reform. She spoke of justice. She said that poor people and poor people could no longer wait for justice. But they can now. They continue to wait for righteousness. They're talking about summer vacations, about happy summer. I'm sure we in here can talk about happy summer. We will have no problem flying around the world, whether in Australia, Cuba, or anywhere. We can afford it. But the same cannot be said of tens of thousands of our countrymen, which we here say, "Good Icelanders." I want to know what's being meant by it. What's the meaning of that? My speech isn't on paper. But this word: success. When I'm at the highest. The government's contract was talking about success. He talked about success. He was talking about the equation. He said that we should all enjoy our fruits. He spoke of well - being. And most important, he spoke of happiness, that Iceland and I were very good at making it possible for us to be happy together. This is where we'd be on the peak of the economy. This is where butter pours every straw. How can we be invited to stand here on the superfluous giants and persuade poor people to believe that they shed butter of all straws around them at the same time that they can't make ends meet? At the same time that their children cannot enjoy leisure activities? At the same time as the older citizens are living in a Land Hospital of ◯ A university hospital, since nothing is left of them when they are due to be returned home. At the same time, while poverty continues to grow, our children's 9.1% and are now in less than 10%. Poor children in Iceland. I now say, as when we talk about happiness, success, prosperity, success, harmony, kindness to one another, showing love, showing that we are worthy to sit here on the legal agreement to embrace our people. But what is the true condition of the nation, namely, Israel? those who are not part of the popular population that all go to the hands? There's poverty in Iceland. It's a national tragedy to tax this poverty. I was really wet behind my ears that I believed it, and I was confident that the few good justice and fair things the people's party brought into these legislatures--I didn't know how they were going in committees. I didn't know anything about it. Everyone has to learn. But, yes, it was, for example. to say: "We have a good report, a calculations that show and prove that it doesn't cost a trust fund, but, on the contrary, a government fund may have a lot of money just by removing these poor money from senior pensions by allowing them to win. But what happened to this matter? Why did they get that case, e.g. Not to enter the democratic discussion of the legislature? Why not? Because it must be a bad reason to defend ourselves by saying: "No, we don't want to help these old people and older citizens get out of the poverty trap we've nailed them in. It was another matter, also a matter of righteousness, which attracts taxation as a full income to buy tools for disabled people and older citizens. Can you imagine? And now there is a little boy on the Cape of the Horne, who suffers from neurodegenerative disease, asking for help. But you know what? It takes too much to help him. For the second time, a medical committee at a land hospital has said no to the parents. The second time, the boy has been rejected. For the second time, he has been denied medication because it costs too much. Yet, the fishing costs can be dropped by less than 3 billion; still, more than hundreds of millions of dollars can be raised each year, which are about to take up less than 700 million a year, in less than 3 billion each year during the season. My fellow Americans. A group of people say what he means, and he means what he says. You got me into this pit and all of us, and we're gonna be working hard for our people from now on. I wish we could make the work talk better and I didn't have to let it be here only in this form of difference. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-04-67.u9	A respectable president. My fellow Americans. It takes nothing but quietness to restore Iceland to its feet. It requires energy and advice and forethought and tolerance. So spoke Jón, son of Sigurðsson, by permission of the president, to his lands during the period of independence. Those words were true, and as we look back on the 100th anniversary of the sovereignty, we can proudly say that we as a nation have achieved amazing results. The commercial economy is flourishing, more diverse than ever before, and so is the diverse fragility of international culture that has so grown and prospered. However, our success in recent years will not only be attributed to our sovereignty and independence but also to the perspective we have shown in our worldwide work. From the beginning, the leaders of this country realized that the sovereignty and independence of a small nation would never be better protected than by active involvement in the cooperation of the nations. Thus, in recent decades we have actively participated in cooperation with European nations in economic and free trade throughout our involvement in EFTA and the European Economic Areas. Our emphasis on international cooperation over the years would no doubt have been Jón. He saw the importance of free trade and the need to break the economic isolation of the land by permission of presidents: In Iceland it is like anywhere else: that the more free she becomes, the more prosperous she will be to the land. Such an example is important, and as many people turn back from taking Iceland alone in all the world, they want to deny that the experience in other countries is relevant. International cooperation has made us more economic advancement than anyone ever thought about it. Enlarged access to foreign markets has led to the greater variety and power of our employment now than ever before. In addition, the EEA Convention has given us increased competition in most areas of society, improved consumer protection, major environmental progress, for example. The current economic growth has yielded great benefits across the country, as can be seen in the rise of tourism, marine soil, fish farms, and less innovation across the country. As a result, whether we look to the prosperity, welfare, or happiness of the nation, we are now making our choice in a series of principal nations. But it is not just the economy that has changed completely. The people of the Icelandic nation have also made great changes. A large increase in the duration of the EEA contract has been observed in foreign populations and is now counting about 12% of the population. It is a great change in short periods of time, a change that has enriched our culture and our nation's lives as well as the positive effects it has had on our economy. Of the four freedoms of the so - called cornerstones of the European Union's inner market, free flow of people has no doubt brought us the greatest benefits. Without it, we would never have been able to cope with the fast economic growth of the last 25 years. Also, in the realms of politics, many things have changed. The recent elections to the Generals and local administrations include a clear demand for change. The number of giants has increased greatly, and on national level, the four party has fallen from 90% to more than 60% in just a decade. But it is not just that new classes appeared. The traditional lines of conflict between the right and the left lines of politics have now led to a conflict between internationalism and nationalism, liberalness, or restraint. That change may best explain the development of existing government cooperation. However, this trend takes place not only here on earth but throughout the Western world. There is good reason to be concerned about the rise of ethnicism in Europe and the United States along with increasing isolationism and division. The rise in refugee currents in the world presents challenges for Western communities, while well - maintained. So it is disappointing to see a number of countries free themselves of responsibility by closing a border. It is particularly tragic to listen to the U.S. President's lawsuit in these matters. Sadly, the United States is no longer a reliable ally in the fight for freedom and human rights. Thus, in the economy and in politics, there is a flash of air, air, and economy. In the economy here, we view familiar storm clouds on the horizon. In addition to the high pay raises in the European Union, the competitiveness of the Icelandic industry has been greatly reduced. An increasing imbalance in national farming and economic growth is no longer driven by our exports but by increasing private consumption and government expenses. It's a familiar sight. When the Icelandic crown's real experience is as high as it is today, history teaches us that debt days are short. It is a barren environment for all the work in the country, regardless of the way in which seas are viewed, tourism, industry, technology and knowledge companies. There is nothing surprising in this trend. This is repeated rhythms of the Icelandic kroner. A review of the New World Translation suggests that there is a need to look for new solutions. Sadly, however, governments have chosen to stick their heads in the sand and hope that they will succeed. History also teaches us that under these circumstances economic control is important. To help with the challenges of increasing employment, a government conference will be shown and will provide room for the growth needed to help the economy cope with more trials. However, there the government also chooses to ignore the clear warnings of experts who ignore and blow to the promotion of Kingdom spending. That way was also gone ten years ago, and we remember too well how that journey ended. The government's problem is the compromise on which government society is built. In view of the fact that the three classes fit the right and left ace well, the design of historical reconciliation has been referred to. But the government is not formed to compromise on that river. The difference of opinion with the poisonous mixture is changed to a large increase in government expenditure at the time tax returns are announced. It's the bridge construction of the government. This government, however, is formed on the basis of what unites the three classes. The opposition to the necessary reforms of Icelandic society. Fear of the call for changes to be read in the outcome of the election. The bottom line on the current situation. The three groups are not interested in creating a stable gang environment here or in ensuring less interest in companies and the public. They are not interested in increasing competition for food production and securing food prices on the pair of the North countries and on the fishing bill for the past week shows that the three groups are not interested in making so much peace with the fishing government. This is a government of special interest, of maintenance, of the government of the three progressives. History teaches us, however, that there will never be any change in a friendship. As a long - standing nation, our isolation today is not merely a competition with neighboring nations for goods and services. We compete with them for the standard of living for people. You see, today's communities are based on knowledge, and the world is open to all of us when it comes to choosing where we choose to educate or live and work. In competition for comparable standard of living, no nation that wants to build on technology and knowledge is allowed to grow under. Let us, then, always bear in mind Jón's exhortation to the nation. To build a strong and good society, it takes courage and strength. But let us not forget his warnings, that, rather, by permission of the president, many people stop taking Iceland alone in the whole world. Let us, therefore, continue in the name of freedom, as validated and responsible participants in international cooperation, fully confident that it will benefit all the people of the land. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-04-67.u10	My fellow Americans. It's a fairly peculiar feeling to be elected back to the Council after an eight - year absence. Several things have changed, and others have not. After a collapse, there was a call for more solidarity during the council, and there is a large promise in the government covenant for consultation and support of the council. How sad it is, then, that the present government has in no way changed the surmounting political armed forces! I would like to ask the voters of the left green home in a room a few questions: Were you freezing left green over six months ago so that they could offer suggestions in this room on child improvement or growth change? Did you freeze left green so they could offer extra money to the hospital and to hospitals in the country? Did you freeze left green so that they could offer suggestions on how to improve money in the treatment of sexual abuse? Did you freeze left green so that they could punch a armored city around the Minister of Justice who violated the Supreme Court's law? And did you choose left green so light-wives, of all classes, would you have to have a monthly debate with the government on decent human terms? I'd also like to ask the voters of an independent party and a forward group that are following this discussion: Did you choke these groups so that they could offer suggestions on how to make money to the elderly and to be desperate? And did you choose these two groups so that they could offer proposals for extra money in high school and necessary transportation? My fellow Americans. These proposals have been canceled by the three federal parties, all at once, at the same time at your will. It seems to me that these three political parties and particularly the left green have completely lost all contact with their voters and people. This becomes clearer than when they now want to put the interests of a visitor and the taxacons ahead of the elderly, the cripples, and the children's families. My fellow Americans. I've wondered recently what our community's journey is. Let's review four facts. 1st 26 Bankers, most of whom work at the bank of the state, receive 1 billion each year's salary. This amount is one tenth of what this government is going to put in all the land's child settlements and is one fourth of what is put in all public interest. 2. The directors of the Icelandic Wall Street Prizes have an annual salary of one to two million dollars per week. 3. A developer recently goes out of $22,000 million in his pocket because of the use of the country's common resource. 4. Eleven percent of the population owns more pure property than they have by 80% of the population. Of course, people are to reap what they sow. But don't do that to midwives, nor do teachers, police officers, or older citizens. We're one nation in this country, but here we are forming a self-employed super-employee class, which is the vast majority of declared independents. The general voter of the Independence Party should consider this fact and ask himself, " Should I give this category a special career? ' My fellow Americans. The missions are gone. We have a growing nation's depression and addiction problem, but each week suicide is taking place in our small country. Some 6,000 children suffer a shortage, but the European Parliament called the government's new budget for poverty and misery. Then we have a foreign policy that often borders on human wickedness and currency that is useful exclusively to capital owners and the money printery in England. It is far too expensive to live in Iceland, whether food, housing, or even money, but Iceland is the 11th richest country in the world. So it doesn't have to be this way, but for things to change, the people have to send home these ministers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-04-67.u11	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. There are a number of differences we have in this room. There are different categories of emphasis, and these groups are not excluded in this respect. During the present assembly, the government situation has particularly directed spears to the prime minister and her party for failing to keep the focus of the left green in the administrative work. This criticism, in turn, is unfair and inextricably difficult to meet - and it is the worst of all. Left green has been the only Icelandic political party that has opposed Iceland's presence in NATO. It's one of the class's policies, but it's not the only one at all. However, another political party was established for a few dierents around one policy, entry into the European Union. However, it was not a matter of decision for the group to put this one policy aside for a government with an independent party. And after the end of the last election, the chairman of Reunion repeated that her category would not make a European application for involvement conditions for government participation. I'm not going to criticize repercussion for this position. By making membership in the EU as a requirement for participation in government partnerships, we would be doomed to lack of impact on national governance, as there is no interest in the national population in the European Union, except for the twin tribes and restoration. However, it is tasteless in the highest way to attack the prime minister repeatedly for the approval of her government of national security policy at the International Parliament, which includes the involvement of Iceland into the Atlantic Community. Of course, the left green have not turned aside from its policy regarding NATO with its leadership in the government, any more than restoration turned away from its one policy course by participating in the last government. It is, of course, a responsibility to take the lead in matters of the land. Some live up to that responsibility, others do not. That responsibility is also involved. in making compromises and establishing firmness in the administration of the country. It has been achieved by the government now represented by Prime Minister Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir. Government emphasis is reflected in many fields and across the Ministry. For example, it was to form a special source of joy when we completed our days in the Istanbul Convention on Prevention and the Fight Against Violence Against Women and Family Violence. A more intensive interest protection in the implementation of EU rules is another example of the government's priorities, which runs across every department, and most of all, largely large contributions to development. A respectable president. As I mentioned at the outset, there is much that we do not understand in this room, but all of us have the same goal of improving the standard of living for those who have assigned us to govern the country. In recent years, many successes have been made, and life - seeking has been an outstanding experience. Of course, we may discern how we divide the value of being made, but if we are to begin to argue over it, we must first make sure that something is different. There are so many things we want to do, both for ourselves, for Icelanders, and for others. We want to strengthen the education system, health system, transportation, and other infrastructures, and we still want to increase our donations to developing countries. But for this to be possible, and at the same time maintaining the standard of living that we are getting used to, we'll be increasing the export value. They are the basis for our biographer. Iceland for centuries was one of the poorest people in Western Europe in spite of all the natural wealth here. It was not until we were able to achieve sovereignty over our own affairs and to engage in free trade with other nations as our best interests began. Iceland is an example of how a nation manages to break free from poverty in the power of power of sovereignty and vacation stores. A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. The marketing of a foreign market will remain the foundation of our lives. That's what all of us are supposed to be able to unite. The government and the job life must come together on this vital task. Although we may discern many aspects of our home, all of us are on the same team when we play on the field. Keep in mind that the world is changing rapidly, new markets opening up, and international business being left out of borders. How we succeed in this work in the next few years will determine the standard of living that we will be in for the next few decades and whether we have the power to carry out good intentions. We politicians need to take over our fanfare and stand together for the issues that truly are the basis for a successful life in our beautiful country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-04-67.u12	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. For me, a new senator, who had some insight into the Senate work because of her previous employment, most have been in the way that we could expect a major body of Congress work to be expected. There is no denying, however, that one thing, one thing that can be called a punt, gets more energy and time than could be expected, and is in the minds of many more important than what really matters to people and businesses of the country. Much was done when the present government was established in a broad sense and about the task of increasing the ways and respect of the Generals. This was a respectable goal, but goals do not stay that way for long, i.e. To be respectable, if it becomes clear that behind the goal, it is mostly to be made alone. Despite the fact that members of Parliament are a rather inexperienced individual for some time, in historical context, there are some experienced senators, present and former, who are not reminded of the more complicated political marches we have experienced in this first assembly of this election period. Was it not the intention of the ruling parties to improve the procedure? Or was there an effort to improve communication with government opposition called for a procedure that could be used in a government team that has the same level of cooperation on big issues as we do today? My fellow Americans. No one can think of the hunting bill coming to the 1st. Tomorrow would be so late if it had been settled between the parties. Everyone here knows that the system that is used when hunting costs are calculated is defective. The rules have always been faulty, and the more experience that has happened to the system, the more obvious the defects have been. Now, in fact, 15 minutes before the end of the Senate, a case placed in a Senate costume and intended to solve matters temporarily rather than start a full re-evaluation of this system, a system that imposes a significant additional tax on the job while other sectors of employment need not be concerned about these matters, but work within the general tax environment that has been prepared by the General Assembly. All can be sure that the reason for the timing is that the group leading to the government did not have the courage to get the case discussed for the district election, elections that proved to be left green hard, and in fact, if not for an increase in urban beliefs from 15 to 23, which is, in view of the unnecessary task of the company, left greens would not have represented in the mayor of this election period, rather than the forward group. My fellow Americans. On April 27, the government decided to march on a reserve because of unexpected events and put half of it, 4 billion, in maintenance and construction of the roads. Note: A reserve for unexpected events. If the situation of the road system was in the mind of those at the government table for an unexpected event, I ask all the interests of crosses themselves. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] This unexpected event meant the same system of roads that anyone with a knowledge of matters was well aware of the need for this capital and more to be maintained during emergency procedures. With regard to the situation of the road system, there had been very little change between the same government groups and today in the reserves, the budget for 2018 was the whole of ◯under contaminants in the roads and, in fact, a major offense in preparation. After these 4 billion had fallen from heaven, the issue began. It is good to tell you that she went to the scene in the South, idealizing district of U.S.A. A secretary of transportation, for example: In Western countries, the budget is mainly to be carried out with a road rat that's a nice one, but it's far from top priority for the local community. For fun, it's a fun coincidence to see where the Devil ends. Is it really possible that chapters will not make life simple in a government community that is formed to keep peace? While a long government contract can be written on what there is no disagreement, life continues, issues that no one envisions, and the first ones put to the test. Good citizens of the country. As a member of the General Assembly, we need to resolve to put our energy on important projects, projects that are effective, but to make it possible, we need to know where we are going. We need to stop implementing European directives in a way that is necessary beyond what is necessary. We need to spend money on projects that are involved in bringing us closer to where we want to go and we need to have the courage to give up jobs that will fail, instead of promising them to continue to flirt with the reasons that they have always been there or that they have been done so much in preparation for foolishness just to put more money on the project to finish it, as we do about the mistakes that are now being carried on in the circle path. So let me give you one example of how vulnerable men experience themselves in the European Union's order of transportation, from the highest point of view. A former secretary of transportation, Kristján Möller, was appointed to say that it will no longer be avoided any longer to bury a new whale tunnel beside those who are already there to fulfill the European Union's rule on tunnels and safety. But when the rules mentioned are read, they are only surprising about anything but the Haggard tunnel. The lack of a government's ability to make such a decision by mistake, to perform about 15 billion, makes the person here reflect on the possibility that a pot could be broken in similar materials. In the fall, big events are coming up for the council. I hope that we have the advantage of handling matters wisely, having the courage to back away because we have gone wrong in the past, and that our government groups will accept the advice of a bridge in the field of government, but will not abandon them simply because they came from the wrong direction. - Good day.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-04-67.u13	Mr. President. Good citizens of the country. For many reasons, the current session is nearing its end. The second election in October and the cost was won in less than a short time. Governments combined in this way, and the Council held a barbershop day after the #meeto Revolution first. The government has been in charge for over six months, and the financial program it has provided provides clear evidence of its path. Health contributions are greatly increasing, the increase accounts for 20% over the period of the programme, i.e. about 180 billion. The building of a land hospital on the Ring Road is funded, and there will be great campaigns in the construction of nurses. During the next five years, it is aimed at achieving the same criteria as in the Norwegian welfare countries. That road began immediately at the annual convention with 500 million contributions for the increased removal of dental services for the elderly and disability. Further steps will be taken in the next phase. Recently the national development center was established. The government wants to use this procedure to promote health care. With this step, nurses will be able to expand their education, improve research, and increase the number of studies in family medicine, all the long - term steps that have been spoken of, but now are being carried out. The huge contribution to welfare with 6 billion injections per year in the social security system will improve the economic situation of disability. Then unemployment improvements have already been raised. Maximum levels of maternity were increased. ... andthe following steps will be extended to the length of maternity and further increase in budget. This tour will be carried out in cooperation with the labour market partners. The collection of state funds and the distribution of taxes requires frequent reviews. Funds were made taking steps to increase taxes on funds, while discounting due to less money was increased. Thus, the burden of money is laid on those who have money, but a major criticism of land wealth exchange has been made of just how small capital owners have contributed. Green taxes have also been raised, and this continue. At that time the host's fee will come to the countryside, which is their first new income for a long time. This helps to meet the local community's requirements for income from tourism. This will be of great importance to rural society, both in the capital area and in the region. The government has also promoted coastal fishing, which is most effective in the scattered areas. It is important to reevaluate markets, using special discounts, in a way that helps to prevent compression in the article. It is also important that the charge of the fees be added to the actual time and that the expenditure be better connected. The injections that are to be followed in the induction building will occur at the appropriate time for the economy, which has now slowed down the most growth since the growth in tourism. A major road operation for the construction of Hospitals and other health - care projects will help maintain a stable level of employment. It is often said that Iceland is one large family, that all of us have similar interests, and that much of the community is alone. In successful families, everyone's viewpoint is listened and everyone is allowed to eat. Left greens have been criticized for sharing in administrative activities. However, we view it as a responsibility, taking part of our burdens, and affecting all decisions. Good citizens of the country. Society is made up of different groups of people and viewpoints. The general body reflects that reality now more than ever before. All of us have a responsibility to listen to different voices, including those we may disagree with and come to a reasonable conclusion together. Thus we build a society that all of us can call ourselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-04-67.u14	President, council and nation. In a letter published in the Fróði of 1882, a South American priest wrote by permission of a president: THEY fear, that the future will show that we will not be able to progress, as long as those matters remain in death, and that the applers will be amazed. The priest then discussed the lack of democratic government by the State Church and how decayed power prevented progress. We have heard of the manifestations of this decomposing power in modern times, but not so much about how it prevents future developments. Iceland has a whale crisis economy. Our marvelously divided wealth is based on tremendous good luck that seems to have happened to us in a balanced, regular manner for decades. We are also very effective at making good use of the opportunities, whether it be when Marshall's campaign comes, when herrings or mackerels come into the history of the law or tourists, are hanging around here to make a mess of the beauty of the Icelandic natural world. But we cannot rely on the ongoing whales forever. The future calls. The projections surround us, demand attention. However, our ability to cope with future challenges depends not only on our ability to understand them but also on our willingness to put an out - of - date understanding aside. All should be aware that during the coming up of a council because of a daring effort to ensure questionable results in decades of controversy, the time of the Parliament will be little spent in caring for the needed structure. Society's appeal does not come from woes or steroids or from biting rich people. The call is for a desirable future view. The results achieved in all sectors of society, because of the efforts of people who know how to use the opportunities, show that the people of the country have tremendous ambition to do well. However, this success is achieved in spite of the political class, where ambition is usually a factor in preventing good ideas from groups of wrong, paying the way for bad ideas that are suitable for certain interests rather than for ambitions as the common people show that they create more opportunities and better. Yet, the future will come, and many exciting ideas will have a bearing on the way to it. The staff will benefit from self - efficiency efforts that can lead to increased production, shorter working hours, better health, more leisure time, and more satisfaction. However, while redesigning ideas on the efficiency and division of wealth, evolution is at risk of further disruption. The nation's wealth will also become increasingly dependent on computer technology, mechanical technology, and biotechnology, which will help us to benefit from the new green revolution. But the system we live in shows no humility and attention to the chosen ones at the expense of those who take these progressive steps. Thus, the loss of the entire system reduces the wealth we all claim to be right. The civilian life and occupations have undergone changes in recent years and have contributed to increased demand for suitable housing, more social and shared infrastructures, such as digital carpenters, modern schools, and personal health services. When such social changes are evident, it is the lawgiver's job to act quickly and with wideness of mind. There are many potential threats. The southern Tribal Emirates undermines the production. Business warfare between superpowers is predictable. A global lack of resources could result in strife, conquest, and a new balance of terror. Climate change will cause some areas of the earth to be uninhabitable, drown other species, and destroy thousands of species unless they take sufficient steps immediately to change the result. We have the opportunity to cope with these threats, but we must reject old restrictions in order to do so. And at the end of the day, it is our children who will have to live in the community that we leave behind. We cannot predict what their world will look like, but we can try to make sure that their life will be both interesting and appealing by planting seeds of fine roads that they can later reap. In each of these examples, it is our choice to determine whether the opportunities will arise or whether these threats are going to work out. We can, for example, keep our way and put laws in an unconcerned way, as we always do, hoping that another whale handler will come and save us when we're in trouble, but we have the opportunity to do much better if we keep these matters to a good degree. The future will show that we were not able to progress as long as these subjects were in a coma. It is our duty to be successful for the people of the country, but if we respond to this obligation, our future members will be amazed at the lack of initiative. Another way's good. The Icelandic people took one generation from the hardy pits into the age of information. Next generation's possibilities are as limitless as we allow them to stay. So let future generations be amazed at how successful they were in a short period of time. Let them speak of the Golden Age when the speech was changed and the future was molded. Let them remember us who are here with regret, but with understanding of what can be done with good solidarity. That would be, I think, an inheritance for all of us here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-04-67.u15	V.E.G. President. Fine Icelanders. We live in a wealthy land that allows all of us to live here with security and abundance. Together, we have successfully carried out a large task and have survived traumatic events that can make us proud. It is by nature that we as a nation stick together and support one another. We even think of ourselves as the center of everything and forget that our world image is completely different from most of the world's population looking at the map where Iceland is a tiny dot at the top of the corner. It's even so that some don't know where Iceland is, as strange as it can be now. The good people of the country. Despite all the popular talk that shows up anyway, we agree on a lot. Besides the fact that the weather is best in the East, all of us want to be able to strengthen the foundation building based on a powerful education system, a sound health system, a righteous social system, and a powerful transportation system. We know the assignments we have, but we normally understand them. In another word, we talk about education for special work, but in the other word, we decide what we want to believe when the experts offer advice. We are, in effect, experts in the sense of heart. Of course, we'll get close, as the examples prove, but that's not enough to get through. To achieve the goal that we all live in equal quality of life, we need to stick to plans that will pass, not get out of the way with the popular talk. The good people of the country. We are so lucky that here in this country is a powerful, coordinated government, one - handed government, with a clear policy of building up infrastructure in transport, education, health care, and child affairs. With baseline financial programmes, sustainable development, caution, stability, firmness, and transparency, the lines have been set for the future. One of the main programs of financial planning is the great effort in transport. It is my solid faith that a powerful, stable transport system is the basis for our future. Our greatest opportunity as a nation is that all over the country is strong, well connected, sustainable, and strong communities. In telecommunications, Iceland is at the world's top level on the International Segregation Association. Therefore, as soon as we see the end of Iceland's project a light-related process that changes and balances the country's facilities for the daily activities of private and corporate life. When this important milestone is reached, we can actually talk about jobs without a location. The ability to settle in the region is greatly improved. The transport projects are huge, but we've started and we're going to have to go far. With a change in public financial framework, we are to look beyond the future. Experiencing funding is important for the management of institutions and rural groups to be able to use one another rather than to ensure financing from year to year. Today, a four - and - 12 - year - old transport program is heading for five - and - 15 - year - olds. Its design includes integrated transport, communication and geographicisation. It has great opportunities but also challenges, since all of these must work together to achieve and make the most of the money. Environmental matters are certainly on the agenda of the government of the left green, forwarding, and independent party under the leadership of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir. The contributions to this important group of subjects are greatly increased, and there is emphasis on measures that involve many issues and that call for a broad consultation. In fact, the environment is intertwined into all operations, and it is our guide to all work. The good people of the country. To cope with the future, we need to be open to ideas. Nothing certain that what we think is valid today will be doing it next week, but an investment in transport activities is one of our most important projects now to ensure the inhabited earth so that we can use our resources and open up opportunities. Some today, but others will come to light. The future will come. We can affect her. I'm going to face it with joy, love, and consistentness. Doesn't anyone else think that's a good way? Enjoy the light, good people of the land. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-04-67.u16	Mr. President. Good Icelanders. After the government has been in it for over six months, it is seen that its ambition to improve the terms of the society of people whose feet seem to be weak, to say no more strongly. The poor are trapped in a man - made poverty trap, and they suffer economic failures, in the strength of self - preservation efforts. The people's proposal to stop taxing the cost of various assistance and relief tools, such as hearing equipment, does not come from a Senate committee but will remain trapped there. This is done despite the wide range of support for this matter of justice among members of Congress. Despite the wonderful promise of an election, the income market for the elderly and reformers was no higher than a hundred thousand dollars. The people's proposal to remove this income goal to make it possible for older ones and reformers who have the will and ability to improve their interests through increased work have been taken from a judicial standpoint and referred to the government. This is despite the fact that the proposal is accompanied by a thorough argument that government funds do not have the cost of the procedure. A group of people have recommended their struggle to make people with income less than 300,000 dollars. ... arefree of income tax. This is moderation, for such income works for a forwardation according to established government standards. Will anyone claim that the government budget cannot be saved unless taxing income that is not enough for the needy? The government has been unattainable to address the wealthiest people and middle-temperatures, inexplicable to solve the problems of disability and reformers, and to put a stone in our streets, who try to cut off these people from the ice - mass of poverty. It has been impossible to make use of the personal discount for the lowest earners. Similarly, the government has not moved or helped to ease the price of insurance from homes and employment companies. A financial minister has informed in response to a request from the above in the past five years that as a result of housing loans cost 15 billion because of a general increase in prices and an increase in 118 billion because of the increase in this index complex. The rise in housing is partly rooted in Reykjavík's policy, which is characterised by lack of property and the related rise in real estate and rent prices. Already, more than a part of the city's council will receive four more years to maintain a land map, and there will be special wisdom that the mortgage will continue to rise for these reasons. I call for a respectable president that the government will see to it that the housing team is immediately removed from the index. It would be an emergency to protect homes from the loss of homes, with dissatisfaction and insecurity for children, many of whom have been led by their parents from their homes. Could this be one of the root causes of anxiety and other spiritual problems that are now affecting young people like an epidemic? The government intends to close mental health measures that, in cooperation with the Power of Mind, have achieved significant results, especially in the interests of young people. The same government refuses to negotiate with orthopaedic surgeons for operations but prefers to send people abroad with substantial cost. Officials are to bend or survive. The government will take it upon themselves to provide a shield for people facing a huge increase in real estate costs as a result of an increase in real estate assessment. But this government is in many respects. She is on the verge of lowering the bank tax, not about 20◯30%, but by more than 60%. There are billions of dollars she's going to make out of a government fund so that she can use a suit in a bank booth. She insists on moving billions into companies that have made a lot of money and that have paid the owners far beyond the cost of hunting. She's in a hurry. Yes, it is also on the verge of reducing income tax, making it as high as possible as possible. She is in a hurry when they are better off. It will not shrink back from freezing the language of those who seek to raise the most efficient groups of income. At a table, the government runs warfare on the poor for the sake of the wealthy. A respectable president. Finally, I would like to offer this opportunity to promote the nation's giving to itself for the 100th anniversary of a sovereignty and independence would be a campaign for the protection and procreation of the Icelandic language by promoting teaching, research, translation, and language technology. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-04-67.u17	Mr. President. Good Icelanders. No wonder the formation of a private government was successful after the last total election! There was little to negotiate, little compromises, classic economic care, and exchange of goods for the country, anything that these three community power agencies might prefer. So how's the cooperation started? The Independence Party was given the nation's gift to make it a total of 3 billion dollars. reduction of hunting costs, in a case snuck into the council at the latest record, likely to save greens from even worse than the group received in recent rural elections. She would have been worse if the case had been handled normally here. However, the left green does not have the empty bag. This involved a health - care field. It seems sociable to go there even if this road ends in the first time the Icelanders experience a double health system. The agreement that all Icelanders have the same access that health care is in an upset state if so. Within the Ministry of Health, efforts are now being made to transfer as much as possible from the activities of an independent organisation to public institutions. This will cut off recent intervention in the National Medical Insurance Convention with Experts, a contract designed primarily to ensure equal access to everyone at the same price. As a result, new experts are being maintained despite the long - term shortage of relevant specialist services in this country. The expert contract expires at the next year's convention, but when there is light in the air, there are some experts who report it immediately in the summer. Thus the double system would become a reality. These are not minor changes in our health - care system, changes that are certainly not in agreement and cooperation with the many independent organizations that for years have built up and maintained our good health - care routine. They are not welcome to the table. It is also not good for governments to answer how the funds in the state - bearing section of health care, already a great deal of things, are new. It has reached the empty cabin of the health authorities, who will not allow the details to interfere with this journey. If there is someone who thinks this is not a cause of harm to work, I do not reduce the influx of knowledge to the country - and in times when health - care problems are particularly faced with the need for innovation and the practical use of knowledge - I ask the same person to think more deeply about. Those who lose these government practices are primarily patients. Mr. President. The role of the center glue was to be made up, but it takes no glue when the knife does not function between classes, which, despite all the factors, are the cohesives of the economic Guard and of the past, even when it is a chronic illness that affects the health sector, so significant today. Of course, progress does get something for it. For example, when people began to look through a lack of meaningful financial support for a major transport campaign and a secretary of transportation got into trouble, he was allowed in the government's reserve, a fund that under government law on public finances is intended for unsurpassed, inevitable expenditures, an expenses that historically fit in with health and welfare issues. Thus, half of this reserve, 4 billion to be precise, was a new early year of transportation, a long - anticipated improvement, and the government promised that it would reflect on a government budget. On the other hand, the powerful and ambitious minister of education is still rolling in the initial meters. Maybe she'll get the other half of the reserve, or is it used to meet the present for the development? Mr. President. I can't complete my case without referring to something that has been in my mind during the winter, and it's the Helsinki disaster. Recently, the State Revision of the Commission, which I took the initiative to see the Council called for, regarding the publication of the license to a silica factory of Silikons in Helguvík. That report certainly gives many examples to be careful and hopefully they will be discussed in detail when it comes to time. As a last word here, in view of the dangers of the government's left green, independent party and health care forward, I would especially like to mention one lesson in this report. It is not in the spirit of honest work in the interests of public interest to put a preconceived conclusion ahead and then work tirelessly to get it, away from the facts, and regardless of the public interests. Don't let our health system become another Helgavík accident. There's no demand for that kind of politics. - Enjoy the summer anyway, good Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-04-67.u18	A respectable president. My fellow Americans. The spring begins with a promise of a fruitful summer and a hot breeze. Young people are celebrating these days in college and colleges, farmers grow the ground, housekeepers study their gardens, children are born into the world, grizzly rowing for fish, athletes take a six-pack outside. It's moaning. All of this is a sign of life and shape and fermentation in our small community of small and large things that are being handled for the benefit of the public. A new government, considered himself a pivotal government that will accomplish much good. About six months have passed since the ministers sat in the chairs, have been given the opportunity to make their own nests and introduce themselves to their plans, and they speak furiously. It is so short since then that the people remember the importance of all political parties in the process of election. They were clear, demanding, not complicated. It was the welfare, health matters, the affairs of elderly, poor people, the desperate, the family of children. To improve the social status of long - term groups, to strengthen society's support as a model for other northern nations. It was and is the nation's call, and these were politicians, party groups, and candidates agreed. And where's it going? The government's budget for the next five years awaits its final summit. It has a vision of the government. Sadly, the nation's call is not answered. A crown is not added to child reforms or amendment, something that will benefit young people best. There is no real increase in funds available for older people beyond normal growth in this group. The poor will continue to live in mischievous conditions, a crown against the crown of decrease. Health services live in an aimless state that borders on chaos. Iceland's health insurance is making contracts for services out and south in unremarkable ways and without need for analysis. In some areas where there is a severe need for service, others are wide open. Clinics of the health system that try to maintain legal projects say very clearly: They are being offered continued retreat and incision. They're all telling the same story, all around the country: we can't maintain the same service if the government doesn't change anything. The land hospital, the biggest and most important health care agency, asserts, e.g. that immediately next year, about 5.5 billion are needed to hold seawater. Does this reflect the desire of the thousands of voters, the opinions shown in historical signatures on health - care efforts? No, Mr. President, the people want new emphasis, emphasis that aims to reform the materially poor people of the country. However, it was not called after tax reductions that this government made its first effort to agree and to cancel 14 billion dollars. It was called for social reforms. It also does not reflect the nation's desire to bring the largest and wealthiest of the country's productions of about 3 billion in reduced fishing costs. For them money would immediately and immediately be able to take major steps and lift the damages of micropigs. It is called for a policy aimed at the welfare and security of the entire population. We want to continue to be part of the northern family of the North American welfare system, which most people of the world look to with admiration. Today, governments look elsewhere toward some sort of premium policy where the well - being is conditioned by high impairments and low markets. Today, it is really the life of the elderly and the desperate to be unable to work and save. They're at the same time in hell. It's got to stop. As a result, we will still fight in the United States, even though we may be facing Goliath for some time. Some 70% of the elderly have income below the alimony criteria. Among those who live alone and who are poor, 70% are women, women who have won low - paying jobs in caring for and other services and who are in poverty. It's no matter where the social security and pension issues go down. Iceland runs the trains all over the Northlands, and it's falling apart. It is not a coincidence, it is a political policy and a government decision. This government maintains unchanged state, misdirection. If we don't get back already, if we don't show the signs in the financial program we're going to do this week, we're gonna log out, out of the Norwegian welfare model. Mr. President. Does it reflect the will of the people of the land? I don't think so. The good people of the country. - Good times and a happy summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-04-67.u19	A respectable president. Good Icelanders. The forwarding government, the Independence Party, and the left movement made a covenant for government cooperation and the procreation of the Generals. During the last days, the debate over the advancement of the International Assembly has been high and seems to each one to be the source of the government's wealth. I think things have been done very well in the first few months, but better if it works. It is the responsibility of all of us members of the Parliament to promote their respect and respect. Yes, let's take a look at ourselves. Whether speaking of socks, vocabulary, responsibilities, telephone use, photo shoots, or inquiries to the company, we need to consider that all our measures are in the process of increasing the respect of the council and improving our performance and effectiveness. I assume that most people at home in a living room are not very interested in our capacity for shape, design, and appearance of the Allegorium. The people, our voters, simply want us to do our work in a decent and loyal way. We're going to make sure that everyone here is good for us to live and work. Recently, local elections took place. I wish to congratulate all those elected to the rural government on this assignment and wish them success in their work. I also want good cooperation with my rural society because I think it's particularly important that we here, okay? Councilmen and the highest. Ministers, let's have a good cooperation with local authorities. What a joy it is to see the equal share of the sexes in new rural governments, but the value of women is now 47% and has never been higher! Me and the Icelanders have achieved a high level of equality, but there must never be anything to relax in these matters. The importance of both genders, whether in politics or in the field of employment. Of course, diversity is important. Iceland is a strong international voice when it comes to equality. We'll make sure of that and we'll have the highest. The minister of foreign affairs now appoints a special ambassador of equality, which is one of the cornerstones of our foreign policy. Since we speak of the procreation of the General Assembly and the Equal Opportunities, the General Assembly of Iceland was the First Congress to participate in a so - called barber conference, but other councils have now shown an interest in following. For us senators, there is a time to confirm the changed standards of the Generals, which particularly address sexual harassment. Both the barber convention and the changing moral code are due to a challenge made by the male senators following the #methoo revolution. I believe that this unmistakably confirmed the will of Icelandic men to participate in the United Nations HeForShe campaign, which is involved in recognition that it is our mission of all to ensure the equality of the sexes. A respectable president. Climates are just as important as international equality. Climate and environment in general are one of the biggest projects in the future. The northern part of Iceland has enormous interest in climate support, and temperatures have not increased as much as in the north. For example, our food box here around the country has been affected and will continue to be affected by climate change. It is also a major economic issue, both directly and indirectly, that we fulfill our goals in the Paris convention. But the government wants to go even further and heads for Iceland's non-carbons at the latest in 2040. That's ambition. I believe there is a general agreement here on the importance of these goals. Then we will need to unite in action to achieve it. One thing is clearly to ensure the safe distribution of electricity across the country, thus ensuring energy exchange. Of course, there are many more tasks. A respectable president. It is our mission, all of us, to make sure that Iceland will continue to enjoy living. Increased production and investment in all sectors of the economy must be ensured in agreement with nature. In this way we create the basis for continuing improved standards and well - being, but we must never simply improve the well - being of some, since in Iceland, living for everyone. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-04-67.u20	V.E.G. President. Ladies and gentlemen. As members of the Central Party, we are about to be humble and grateful for the welcome received by the company by the two voters during his eight - month period of work. At the same time, we are thrilled to have the dynamic work that many come to do each day in order to strengthen the class's work and its success. Have all your brains thank you for your great work and support. Clearly, the media is part of the political change that is taking place today in many parts of the world. Conventional partying is on the decline, but the movement of bold policies and effective solutions has been observed. The central class provides a fine example of this development. There is a need for a new force that has courage and courage under political conditions in Iceland. An established government is founded on the lowest possible intermediate element, so it merely agrees on the simplest issues. This even appeared. in the paint of the government during the current council and in the fact that intense and extensive cases are all too late and unworked. An example of this is the bill on personal protection, financial plans, and fishing bill. The worship of the government of Arion Bank will become very expensive to an Icelandic nation. It is crystalting these days as the exports of the bank stocks and the sale of the government's prenuptial rights that the government had declared to be out of hand. It is also on the table to sell the bank's singlest properties in behalf of a hedge fund, not a government fund. The media has also suggested an independent and professional status for a new national hospital. The motion has been mentioned for weeks but is finally released from the prison and will hopefully be on the council program shortly thereafter. The government's will to make this big mistake in making a decision on the status of a new national hospital is determined and will be at high cost not to prevent this crisis by all means. Following the government is finally free of charge and classizes those who claim to be part of a deserved recruitment process in recent district elections. My fellow Americans. The Party of the Central Party has touched its main emphasis on the elections in the fall in one way or another. The group suggested that professional incomes of the elderly do not dishonor pension incomes. The proposal that would have cost the state funds almost nothing but would have improved the benefit of the group of older ones who have the mind and ability to earn a few extra powers was expressed as a roll call of the government's superiors. Truly, four groups of greetings to the people most important of all contributes to the building of Icelandic society. The middle party will continue to fight in this case until further notice. The central category has also provided a bill for housing to fall from the index scale of consumer loans. That bill is now a hostage of the Economic and Business Committee, and it looks like no one likes to take the bill for 2nd. True, this is not surprising, since we are surrounded by 1 Corinthians. on the matter at the moment the prosecutors and the Independence Council raised some answers, but the rest of the matter was not discussed. Neither members of the United States nor Pirata were interested, nor were afraid to participate in the discussion. During our discussion, Stockholm's members signed up for our Middle Class lawsuits. This is a case involving 100,000 homes in the country. If it had happened a year ago and been approved, it would have saved over 50 billion creditors, just since March last year. It's intolerable that housing funding is being made in Iceland in a very different way than neighboring countries. There is an unacceptable growth policy, as well as a major factor in the value of insurance. If nothing goes wrong, young people can't cover their heads and there's a risk that young well - educated people don't see the possibility of settling in Iceland. This development is already under way, and it must be responded. Politicians must have the courage to handle this important issue. Otherwise, they have no business in politics. No group has given such weight to the change in insurance as the Central Party. Nor has any other class maintained such strong criticism of the okurion policy of Iceland's Central Bank and Business Bank. The reduction in interest and cover-up insurance is the largest justice issue we're dealing with in Iceland. This will be shown in the late fall labor demand for future negotiations. Then the government will have to answer in a decisive way. The middle party will be in the line of fire in the struggle for righteousness as long as it takes. My fellow Americans. We celebrate this year the 100th anniversary of the U.S. government. No one could say that in those 100 years the nation would move from poverty to wealth. No one could foresee the success we would achieve during those 100 years. The country now celebrates it itself every day throughout the whole country, as goes on, for example. in a newly released magazine that was distributed throughout the country this weekend. That's good. Because of the time, I've only been able to kill on a few things where the Central Party has a clear view and a complete choice that the current government so desperately lacks. So I urge you to keep a close eye on our Middle Class activities and give us support and maintenance so that we can build the future together. I wish that you and your closest family would have a good time together this summer and enjoy Iceland in the summer with a full green sledge. - I thank those who obeyed. Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-04-67.u21	V.E.G. President. My fellow Americans. In the end, this assembly will end, and finally, the first conniving governments of Katrín's daughter, Jakobsdóttir's daughter. Then it is proper to look at what has been accomplished, as well as what has not been accomplished and what is still being done. That is how it is with society - the work to shape it is always going and is never done. Good society is for everyone. All of us should be able to enjoy ourselves both by contributing to our community and by receiving the support we need. One of the first jobs in the government was to raise the income of seniors for employment, in a line with the emphasis and demands of senior citizens. It is known, though, that not all of them can improve their prowess with increasing employment involvement. Thus, there is a full - time work that aims to improve the interests of the worst. Mr. President. Within a month, a new registration will take place to reduce the payment of the elderly and the disability of dental services. This has been a long wait. Similarly, home - to - house replacements have been elevated, but pensioners who live alone are known to be at what cost. There is an cooperation in the development of the social security system and once it is assumed that from 2019, 4 billion will be spent on an additional year into the system to improve the quality of biofuels. The overall review of the income taxation system to be completed this year will be so particularly considered as to interacting with tax systems and reform systems. Different groups have different positions, so there are no magic solutions that benefit all alike. This must be kept in mind when we consider the security network that our welfare system is being reviewed and updated. In this regard, professional responsibility is also great. It is not enough to develop a powerful educational and rehabilitation system if the workforce is not available to face a variety of skills, backgrounds, and circumstances. The business of the country, the public and the public must come together and change our attitude as a community to take on people's employment skills. During the session, there is no room for legalized user - controlled personal assistance as a single service to disabled persons, as well as a change in social services laws. In the process of doing these matters, the General Assembly showed its best aspects, with people of different categories striving to make a wide range of peace with the interests of those guided by the ministry. Good citizens of the country. The worst must always be the key focus of our political activities, but we must look to matters that concern the entire inhabited earth and the future of our offspring, the environment. Environmental contributions will be increased by 35% in this government. The financial planning of infrastructure in tourist areas, particularly in peaceful areas, has been introduced, and the establishment of a central national park is being implemented. As a society and mankind, we face challenges in saving deteriorating ecosystems and increasing plastic pollution. Yet, the biggest challenge is the battle against global warming. High hopes are held by a new climate Council, which operates during this month. Large increases in land healing and recovery of wetlands may be important factors in this struggle, but it is clear that large amounts of energy switching from fossil fuels to renewable energy is a key factor. Energy policy for Iceland to the present year, along with national ports of energy, is an enormously important one. Global warming's impact is disturbed when millions of lives and, as so often, in capitalist society, victims are mostly from their poor, landless, women, and children. This is a battle that we must not lose, and the government of Katrín's Jakobsdóttir, and we in the left are going to do our part and win it. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-04-67.u22	Dearest nation. President and Councilmen. Our social and political ideologies lack a comprehensive view of the future development of our society. Environmental pollution, deterioration of the physical and spiritual health of the nation, increased addiction, poverty, and crime are all serious problems requiring solutions that the traditional political system seems to lack the ability to deal with. That applies not only to us in Iceland but to others in many parts of the Western world. Our society is making great changes, but politics is taking place. Consequences of politics and a lack of respect for the evolution of society are never of the good. In the past, such things have usually led to conflicts and even bloody revolutions. We live in a time when technological advances enable individuals to take a direct part in politics in previously unknown ways. The political system should deal with these situations by providing real access to policy development and decision making. A political system that puts all decision making into the hands of a few individuals who put the top priority for their own success is out of place and have no concordance with the modern world and with the expectations that the public has for politics, and the call for change has been clear and loud. The regular elections, protests, signatures, new constitutions, the total number of offers, and the movement after another has come up just to be ignored. The government has been created for the sole purpose of maintaining an old system. All talk of universal growth, professional management and cooperation is now empty, and it is likely to be inevitable, at least in the present system where a few members of Congress control and force their affairs through in the power of the greater part. But is that not what politics are all about today? Setting up separate groups of people against one another? The conceptology of the class system is based on lasting conflicts between different elements that promote the interests of part of society at the expense of second and long - term social costs. This lasting conflict between political parties serves as the sole purpose of supporting old - fashioned leadership and the power of capitalism, which uses the struggle to promote personal interests. Separating is a methodology that has yielded great results to a small number of people who have earned excessive power, money, and resources at the expense of all of us. It is false to call this sect a democracy. Real democracy has not yet been introduced, but technological advances offer the possibility of community democracy, the possibility of participation democracy, or what the Piranians would like to call a direct democracy. But the democratic revolution is not merely about the tools that modern technology revolution brings to our hands. It involves a complete review of the entire community and the underlying conditions that shape our system. It is a progressive project that requires that we take up real consultations that includes everyone coming to the table to influence, not just as an alibi for a standard system. A body that is not virtual, it's a goal to improve society and democracy that works. Because what we do here and call democracy doesn't work. Let's not be afraid of change. Change is inevitable and necessary for the development of society. Let's not be afraid of new ideas and new approach. Our understanding of the world is in a climate of unsurpassed evolution, and each generation brings in a new view, new expectations. Dearest nation. Let's build democracy together and be radical and courageous, for as Barbara Wootton said: ▪ All evolution draws its creative strength from the unattainable, not from the slaves of the potential.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-04-67.u23	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. The health and concerns of the elderly and the children are my interests and will discuss them here tonight. When discussing the affairs of the elderly, the mind comes up with schedule and apartments in nursing homes. It is, therefore, a joy to find ourselves in the construction of a nursing mother in the country. The development ahead involves not only the equipment of the two - and - three - building facilities in the nursing homes of the country but also the increase in the number of nurses in general to meet the great need that exists today and is increasing with increasing life expectancy and life span of the population. Other services, such as home nursing, daily training, and rehabilitation, will also be emphasized in order to improve and strengthen the individual to reduce the need to stay in a nursing room. The country's home may be filled with a medical facility that is associated with a new and shorter hospitalisations, e.g. for monitoring, illness, accidents, rehabilitation, or discontinuation procedures other than the population of nursing homes. I encourage the health minister to consider in the development and restoration of nurses that this aspect is thought to be accepted into the equation and strengthened in the process. Hospitals throughout the country are economic benefits and provide more expensive resources, such as incorporation into a high - tech hospital, and also contribute to graduations from expensive space. They also provide safety and flexibility to citizens and health professionals in the country, often preventing unnecessary costs and inconveniences from moving abroad to care for the local population. In many cases human health - care facilities in the region have been difficult, and it is a pleasure to find many people in government policies where this is a very careful solution. For example, in order to increase the number of health - care professionals through the development of regional medicine studies that prepares health professionals for rural work. Health benefits are enhanced, but by the use of modern technology and communication, public access to more specialized health care can be comparable to that of the public in the country. A great deal of appeal today has been made for improved mental and mental - health services and is able to get strong in the field of maintenance care for people who live for a long time in their home. New emphasis on child - care with a wide variety of problems also gives us the expectation that this group and their families will be better cared for. Children who suffer from drug problems and mental problems have suffered over a period of time, but the government with social security ministers is dealing with these issues. There is also an increase in bioavailability, especially in young people, to psychological services. By improving our service to this group and the prevention of mental health problems, we reduce the growing need that continues to develop. The work of teachers and other experts in self - support and prevention with children at all levels strengthens our children and gives them tools to work with later life. I'd like to reiterate that the government places particular emphasis on prevention and public health, including the U.S. in the educational and health systems, focusing on sports, childhood and social aging work for the benefit of the community. - Happy summer, my fellow Americans.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-04-67.u24	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. Like all members of the assembly in this hall, we were elected to benefit the nation. Since we are not members of the government, many of our work will not be finished here at the council. When we are struggling to keep our affairs going, we often become aware that members of all categories agree with us. These are the most intimate cases, they say, and even talk about the need to correct the mistakes that have been made. It is therefore kind of strange to see even such cases frozen at the council, dislodged, destroyed in a environmental way, as it were. You see, politics are not the same as where good things come from. But Stockholm's language has an effect and will have an effect. Other groups have taken up our business, and I believe that many of them will get on course before the end. It's summertime. The present government has joined to maintain its place. It has united in upholding power, and because of the composition of the government, it has decided to do nothing that really matters. If they took their hand and did something drastic either way, the right arm or after the incident, the left hand could receive considerable intervention. That is why we are now on the scene with a stable government that is struggling to do as little as possible, and that is, during the greatest phase of national good. Good listeners. During the election campaign, both for the recent elections and for the last election, the candidates were warned to expand their infrastructure. What does that mean? Is this something that's attached to a hand? Is there any sign of politicians who have this one thing to say? While most of us may think that we know what is meant, the concept is extremely vague and difficult to grasp as to the exact meaning of such promises. That is why it is also easy to avoid material pursuits. Transport is a matter of mind for many road users, and it is not without reason. The roads of the land are crumbling down, and they call for maintenance and innovation everywhere. It has been estimated that a major road out of the capital, inside and abroad costs about 250 billion. What is the issue of the government that pushed aside the current transport plan and chose not to finance it fully? The government's spending was 5.5 billion a year for three years. Then you're going to go to the reserve, half-finish it, and make 4 billion of it to make the worst holes in the summer. Is this the result of boasting? It's actually a small patch on a gaping wound. No, Mr. President, there's a job to do, and it's certainly time to board the sleeves. The law is another group of paintings that are listed under entrances. What's the status of the police? It has been calling for many years after increasing manpower to public and visible law enforcement. Has there been a listening ear? The country's police are now fewer than 11 years old, and it was thought that there were more than 200 police officers in the country. - Good Icelanders, good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-04-67.u25	A respectable president. Good Icelanders. A few months ago, I stood in this chair and declared that I had great faith in a prime minister and that I wanted to give a new government a chance to prove myself and to show that history did not have to repeat itself, that the repetitious political peace of the government was in behalf of the nation of all but not in defense and interests of some. In the same talk, I declared that we, as members of a council on the mark of the convention, decided to support good things, to follow our convictions, and to speak for our basic ideals. Thus, the tone was struck on account of the restoration, and it has been established. Now, just six months later, I have to admit that I was possibly just too optimistic. The European Convention of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter proclaimed a change in practice, and to a person who is only two times in politics, it sounded exciting; an application of an experiment that I wanted to contribute to and participate myself, especially because the people deserve our quality and work better together. But today, there's another note. The three government groups have shown their true face, and at an amazing time. Immorality, powerism, and self - control are the things that come to mind instead of the beautiful words given to the new practices and practices of the Council. My fellow Americans. On a kitchen day, the program is set up, drawing out what has been done or neglected by the government. Let's go over the situation for a minute. There is no initiative in the government to ensure wide agreement on improving the interests of women's classes. Ministers and members of the board have been in the race to speak down the EEA deal. A dollar is still waiting to be canceled, yet hunting costs can be lowered. Directors are very naive, as are search dogs to all the seas that can be placed in the import of food. The interests of consumers remain. Growth and child support are not being updated. There is no reflection on a new bill on the Icelandic loan Fund. Impulse activity or fear of decision - making about travel is a crying cry. There is no interest in the government to establish general competition in the milk industry, and again and again the consumers pay the bill. There are no clear lines in the national transport sector, not in public transportation, such as city lines or in the construction of infrastructure. There is no suggestion that should contribute to a wide variety of agreements on payment for the access to the marine resource. Instead, a bill is smuggled in during the last days of the council, which has the sole purpose of reducing the cost of the purpose of the country's joint resource, completely without consultation or an attempt to make extensive reconciliation. It is no coincidence that this matter is run through by the same categories, the same members of Congress who wanted the State to pay off hundreds of millions of dollars last year, and who put pressure on extending the debt discounts. Of course, we did not. That this bill allows small donations space is a complete discount, it shows reports, and it is merely a service to them larger in this article and the best friends of the board of directors. Never discuss the elephant in the room, the Icelandic crown, when it is known that the wise changes in money policy promote stability and decrease growth, for the benefit of countrywide. When taken together, beautiful words in the government covenants on change of practice and the Council's expansion are singled out, especially in the last days when even new unscrupulous rules are formed from the greater part of it to drive matters through. On the other hand, on the other hand, we are on the same side with our presence in political affairs. New currency, international cooperation, freedom, competition, and equality We have made it our goal to have the courage to point out the crown, a endemic system error in the community that has suffered far too long in the homes of the country. Clearly, the exchange of our life - style is not a matter of personal concern, as is the fact that our freedom is for few chosen ones. We will take a stand for freedom against custody and conservativeism, choosing international cooperation against isolationism, competition instead of the few, and will be loud if individual freedom is impaired. [[The president calls.]] I'm sorry, but I don't see any of the board today. It's amazing, but it's true. A respectable president. After tonight's discourses, it is clear that the coaling of the government's advisers has been restored. Something we've been rocking the boat that's got a good idea. Clearly, then, the business of restoration has never been more important for an Icelandic community. You can be sure we'll be watching.
