ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-12-2.u1	We're moving to the highest. The prime minister of his policy on behalf of the government will discuss it, which will be broadcast and broadcast from the International Assembly Hall. The discussion is divided into three rounds, eight minutes in the first round, five minutes in the second pass, and four minutes in the third round, but the prime minister has 16 minutes to advance. The order of the classes is in all traffic: The left movement, the United States, the Central Party, the Independence Party, the Piranths, the forwarding party, the group of people, and the restoration. The speakers for the left movement ▪ green supply will become Prime Minister Jakobsdóttir Jacobs first round, Svandís Svavarsdóttir Health and Ingi of Environment and Resources, in third round. The members of the United States will first pass on Logi Einarsson, the 5th. That's the north side. " In the second round of Friðbjörg Peace of Elíasdóttir's daughter, 10th That's the north side. ; and Ágúst Ólafur the son of Ágústsson, the son of 3th. Smoke. So, third round. The members of the Central Party will first pass, Sigmundur, Davíð Gunnlaugsson, 3th. That's the north side. " Sigurður Páll Jónsson, 8th. Witchest. "The second round, and Bergþór Ólason, the fourth, Witchest. "In third round. The members of the Independence Party will be Bjarni Benediktsson first-pass economic minister, Sigrider On. Andersen Justice Department, second-passing minister, and Haraldur son of Benediktsson, 1st. Witchest. "In third round. To Pirata, Halldóra Mogensen, 11th. Smoke. n., first round, Smári Mccarthy, 10. South, second round, and Jón Þór Ólafsson, 8th. We're out of here. "To the third. For the forwarding party, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson speaks first-pass, second-pass Secretary of Transport, Alfreðsdóttir Alfredd daughter of Education and Culture, and third-passing Ásmundur Daðason, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. For the mob of the people speaking first round Sæland hailand, the 8th. Smoke. s., in the second Ólafur Ísleifsson, 10th. Smoke. n., and third round Karl Gauti Hjaltason, 8th st. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! The superintendents will be in the first round of the Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir, 7th. We're out of here. "In the second Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, son of 7th. Smoke. n., and in third round Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, 7th Smoke. The path to the program "umount"
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-12-2.u2	A respectable president. My fellow Americans. Though it rained on some of us, the land was the most beautiful. We who live in the southwest corner were regularly reminded of the fact that there is nothing better than to smell the vegetation when the rain descends. And I could not help but appreciate sitting in a hot pool at the Beach Coast Guard, looking across the river in the opposite direction at 19 meters a second and observing the pool built by young people who never lost faith in the land. I was grateful for the accomplishments of those who believed in the sovereignty we celebrate this year, the vision, and the zeal that they showed. Although the weather was a popular subject in all parts of the country during the summer, we were still lucky here on land, compared to the weather in other countries where there was a tremendous drought, a forest fire, and a lack of crops. We Icelanders offered Sweden assistance on forest fires, Icelandic farmers sold hay to their Norwegian colleagues, and we all observed weather reports that testified to the impact of climate change. The government introduced the first stage of the future in an ambitious climate - related operation program. As we know, there has now been a turning point in financing to the environment. The plan of action will determine how these funds will be used. There will be land transplants, forestry, and extensive recovery of wetlands. Another big step is to transport energy exchange, where there will be a big effort in the construction of electric cars and electric wheels and set down a schedule to avoid being transferred into new vehicles that run for fuel or oil after 2030. We Icelanders and I have made it our goal to become nothing less than 2040. These first phases show that we really mean it. I can see that environmental and climate issues will be one of our flagships foreign policy, just as the sex equality issues have already begun, and that Iceland, although we are not large, can thus have an impact on the benefits of the international community. My fellow Americans. Iceland has now spent nine years in the top row of World Economic Forum's list of countries most successful in sex equality. Of course, that is a lot of joy, but there is no place to relax. Induction of equal remuneration is at hand. There, institutions and businesses have to hit the deck if they're to get caught before the New Year's Eve. Likewise, we need to be aware of what this list does not recommend, e.g. sexual violence. That's why the government has put it in full priority. The terms of the Istanbul Treaty and the fight against violence against women and domestic violence were an important step in the right direction that has been taken in spring. This year a group of experts have been working out what needs to be done and what adjustments are needed in order to combat sexual abuse better. The group has now produced a project program that will be implemented. And we will continue to process the lessons # I like the revolution, including with an international conference on the issues to be held in this country during the coming year. Mr. President. The government has taken the task of attacking the necessary structure of social infrastructure from the very first day forward. What started in the last budget and continues on a new budget bill is far beyond what any political group proclaimed for the last election, and the need is urgent. At the same time, time is good, since predictions are expected to reduce the rate of economic growth in the years to come. Therefore, there is a specific opportunity for the government to give you an injection. Health services are a major factor in the new budget bill, since the language category that the country has set the top of the list according to various surveys. In this country, patients have had to pay more for health care than do others in the north. The first steps to reduce this cost have been taken at the month - to - day intervals when the expenses of the elderly and dentist were reduced, long - term and important. The entire ideal period will continue to be followed. Here, too, there is evidence that spiritual health, especially young people, has deteriorated. That is why the government stresses mental health. It's working to increase access to psychologists all over the country because it's a big deal to live well with our young people when it comes to these matters. Of course, it's a big issue in this infrastructure. It's been a big experience on the road system in the past few years. There we need to consider the road system rather than even more intensive public transportation. 4 billion are laid on the huge task of improving the growth of disability, and a team of consultations has been proposed to make suggestions on how these funds will be most useful, as well as to increase the potential for disability for active community involvement and employment participation. The Secretary of Economics and Economics will bring in this winter a bill for a national fund that will be one of the key issues of this government, but I will expect to be one of the key issues of the Generals all, and we will be at peace with that. It aims to place money from government-based energy companies in a special fund to provide for the future, on the other hand, to attack the efforts of nursing homes and to strengthen research and innovation. This may be called a generation project; the way we live on our eldest people and the way we live for the future. To me, it is the most crucial thing that Icelandic society will start building up and supporting more with the emerging and research environment. Of course, many things have been done in recent years, but it is important that we further expand our education systems and aim for significant investments in research and innovation. We have seen that in the past few weeks, weather conditions within the individual sectors can quickly take place. That's why the variety is so important; not putting all the eggs in the same basket. Increase in innovation and thus increase in value will strengthen every industry; fishing, agriculture, industry, tourism, imagination, creative branches, and so forth. There is still work that will further strengthen the structure of the financial system. A white book on the financial system will be published in the fall where what has been done well in those cases in recent years - since it has done a huge job since collapse - and what can be done better. Part of the task is to analyze the cost of the Icelandic financial system, but there is evidence that the cost is higher in this country than in any other country. in other parts of the North, where there is an impact on the public growth rate. The aim must be to reduce this cost so that the population can enjoy lower interest and thus be better quirked. Of course, it's a huge biographer. A committee on review of money policy established by the former government arrived in June. The government has continued to have a meeting with the National Intelligence Agency and the SEC. The goal is to strengthen the box on the money policy, including the money policy. ... witha change of law on the Secret Bank, but I will submit its bill in a year's time. Both government and money policy are important in maintaining economic and social stability for the future. The third support is also important, the workforce's issues. The government has placed great emphasis on this ever since she began to have the best cooperation with the labour market partners. We've had ten meetings with them in total, along with the head of the United States Company. They have already produced many results. The important change was to raise unemployment rates and payments from the pay fund during springtime. There was a plot of law laid down in spring. The payment of the highest government will be similar to that of other countries in the North, and the General will face it this autumn months. So in spring, the government issued a declaration along with a revised collective agreement that the income tax system and the sharing of benefits and taxes would be reviewed during the term so that it will be useful to a low-cost and lower intermediate groups. The currently proposed revenue worm assumes an increase in child improvement, which will increase the provision of low income income income families. In addition, there is an increase in personality rhythms in excess of the change in index price which will best benefit them from earning a living. In addition, the upper limit of the tax system will be attached to an consumption marker as well as to the lower limit so that this limit will change in a comparable way that many have been called and pointed out. All of this is important equal measures, but finally, the insurance fee is also reduced by 0.25%, which will benefit the entire economy, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, which may be relevant during the coming winter. These changes are rooted in government declarations and show our clear will that the tax and reform systems serve an equal role. Other changes that have already been made, such as increases in capital tax, show the same will. We are taking important steps to bring the tax burden to the most treatable groups and to ensure that most of them contribute more to their income and possessions. My fellow Americans. In these days, a report was published by a group of work I ordered to trust in politics and government. Here are some interesting suggestions. Among other things, we members of Parliament and Ministers are suggested to update the rules of interest registration. Furthermore, the legal registration of the vice presidents and the Ministry is to be established, but the registration of their interests and their publication is not legal, although all these people have been prepared to record their interests and publications to increase transparency, which was made in the spring months. It is suggested that the Management Board establish a policy on information management through the review of existing information legislation. In addition to making a contract with the National Institute of Moral Science, Iceland, to be a counselor for the Management Board. All of this is contained within what we can call an Eternity Frame. International institutions such as OECD have worked hard to define integrity in public administration. We see governments in many parts of Europe attacking similar jobs. We will see further action in this being and the election season everything, but my first task must ask to discuss that report here in this hall, for it is important for all members of the council to participate in that discussion. Clearly, since collapse, trust in politics and government were diminishing. Rather, this trust has gone on growing without comparableity. It is likely that political and administrative trust will be as much as it was shortly before collapse. Society has changed, information flows have changed completely. The social media have radically changed the political debate. We, who remember most of the time to make tonight news about what was said that morning feel like a revolution in which morning news is often completely forgotten in the evening. When such a transition occurs, when such a revolution occurs in the medium's environment, it can be noted that it has been claimed that the media has developed the message. We see this many times in modern times, even in the realm of international relations, where the world's most powerful man, the president of the United States, sets a policy against other countries, with 280 letters on the Twitter. As we know from the past, such communication in the media can change much of the balance of power in society. New media and changes in them are part of a larger form of community change, called the fourth industrial revolution, where it is important that we be on the lead. We know that this technological revolution will completely change industry, employment market, education, and society. We also know that it will change us. It will change our real experience. The German press reported that an unusually large number of children drowned in Germany for a year. For one thing, their parents, grandparents, who were supposed to keep an eye on their children, were busy on the phone. Of course, we must have the courage to face this new reality and our relationship with the technology so that the next steps in the development of this technology and ours will be good for all of us. In all this development, it is important that we Icelanders become doers, not receivers, that we take advantage of the opportunities, create greater value, and use them to build a better society for all of us, and at the same time remain, and even more than we have been, aware of human beings, and take care of them in this rapid development. Because of all of this, I have decided to have a diagnosis of the challenge of the fourth industrial revolution. This analysis will be wide-based and met accordingly. At the National Research and Technical Council, the National Research Strategy for improving prosperity, meeting the members of the industry, the government, labor movements, and others, with special partners of the labour market and the new Council Committee. And talking about the future. The presidents of the political parties have met several times about the revision of the constitution planned for this and the next. There have been good meetings, and I'm going to allow me to be optimistic about our success in creating a broad solidarity of changes in a constitution that will lead the way to the future for Icelandic society. I believe that we politicians owe the public a great deal of effort to be effective in this regard. My fellow Americans. This year we celebrate the sovereignty that has divided us so much and even everything. The first 100 years of the sovereignty have been a history of social and economic progress, and we have ample opportunities for progress over the next 100 years. We are to welcome the society we now have that is so much more diverse than it was a century ago. We are to continue to base on the diversity, the values of democracies and human rights that we have honored throughout this history. And we are to advance, advance by cultivating intelligence, creating new knowledge, making sure that there will be a united, diverse, and loving society in which we will live in harmony with the environment, thus ensuring the economy and the balance. I was traveling the other day, meeting many people there. They don't tell you everything in the open Law of Ministers, so I'm going to tell you about it right now. Among other things, I met students at Seyster's School, who called me, said that they had to talk to me about things. For one thing, it would be necessary to lower the price of ice - we can agree on that - get better sidewalks and outhouse pools. They also pointed out that these days were a measure of success and that we needed to take much more care of the environment. This little political meeting was in my heart, for often children have just such a clear view of the things that really matter in our environment. A week later, I met members of the household on the suspicions of our discussion about the history of the sovereignty, all the victories that have won in the past 100 years, and their role in building up the community we have today. After those two meetings, I was very optimistic about the future of Icelandic society. We're here because of the generation before us, with great interest in weapons. And while many things can happen and life is not a single tireless walk, but can come about, I am confident that the future will be bright with this wonderful young generation that will take over our country. It is our responsibility, however, to be careful to return it to a suitable home. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-12-2.u3	Mr. President. There's something about the sky. There is evidence to suggest that we are heading down to the valley after we have been at the peak of economic swings for a long time. The next few months are decisive. During the past few years, the governments have not provided an unprecedented set of space to equalize the level of social stability. It doesn't take much reality to see that the good news has not reached everyone. A large group of people experience it primarily through averages, glossary magazines, or news of pay - raise hairs, including those found in the United States. Ours here. Recently, politicians from the most unlikely category have said that governments are not to get too involved in collective agreements, that is the role of recruiters and employers. However, a government government is not like any other business, and the role of governments is to create an acceptable and secure environment for all the people of the land. That is why governments must, in effect, be decisive in solving agreements. However, I criticize the delay and warn against using such devices as change in the last minute. Socialism would have presented such plans in a government contract. In recent years, however, the government has been working to make a huge deal. They have grasped the benefits of pay increases by cryo-conservation of personal discounts, decrease in growth and child improvement, and insufficient improvement in the interests of older people and disability. In the earlier talk, Prime Minister said that these are important steps that bring the tax burden to the most efficient groups that ensure that they make the income and most of it contributed more. However, the steps are too small, the highest. Prime Minister. During the past five years, the United States has offered suggestions on making each budget that is about this, raising child reforms, growth reforms, and revenues back, including of resource expenditures, all of which have been coordinated by governments, including the present one. It is certainly progress that the government will agree in some detail with the United States in the new budget, but these are chicken fats that may be due to some unstable currency. It brings back to the wisdom, in the final analysis, to promote practicality, even the need for more broad governmental classes, which fundamentally disagree, both in ways and even in goals. Of course, it's up to each man to answer, but I don't believe in a expedition that goes on too much after delivery of fundamental values in ideal conditions to change society's interests in terms of equality and justice. It is the joy of the phase, the family care that makes sweet memories of strange combinations of food plate at a bar mitzvah. Rottebeef, graff, lamb, cabbage, shrimp race with brown sauce on a plate is not interesting in itself. Governments must begin to revolve around a future, what sort of society is sensible and decent, and what is the way to that end. I know that there's a difference between us and sometimes we have to give in. Although the egg and the chocolate are both in the right, the raw substances are unlikely to be placed in the same recipe. Governments should not be a nice business club where it is evident that everyone has or can work together in a government, although we can certainly respect one another and unite in a unique way. We in the United States can, for example. brief shapes of further climate operations, but we do not accept too little money for hospital service, ambitions for education, or pathetic failures in housing, nor an unjust tax system in which there is no increase in property rights. Much more drastic steps must be taken to equalize life - seeking for the entire public. Create financial security and social space for employees, older people, and microloomers. Make the welfare and health services less expensive. Young people have, e.g. not using updrafts in recent years. They have been left behind despite being the key to our future. We need to work on housing that guarantees this and the underpayers the practical apartments to buy or rent affordable options, raise child reforms, and provide further support and reduce the declines and prolong their birthmarks, as too long has been promised. Above all, however, we must invest in education. This is significant in the time of the advances in technology and the changes in national dating. Otherwise, we simply drift back out of other nations. Good schools are the basis for a powerful career in which intelligence and innovation become the main exportor. Young people today can choose any place in the world to live, and we need to offer them better conditions if they have a head of interest or material to live in Iceland. Mr. President. We're supposed to stop getting stuck in reflexes and bits of pieces. Have the courage and vision to create the future of parishion and stability. We can choose a spirit of liberality, or a spirit of control, progressiveness, or enforcing, and all of us can see where the present government is located in that area. It is therefore essential to make fundamental changes in public interest, not narrowing the interests of others. Remuneration of common natural resources, making greater profits for the public. Reevaluate agricultural systems, increase competition and innovation to consumers. The contents of the promise of a new constitution, as agreed by the nation on a vote, and most important, when the dollar is predictable to cause trouble for the public yet another journey, it is necessary to work on the video of the euro and to enter the European Union. We have a lot of interest in international cooperation, and we can't allow national political voices to upset the EEA policy. No contract has brought us more prosperity or opportunity, but we also have contractual and moral obligations. We are to take full part in combating climate impacts, contribute more to developing cooperation, take responsibility for the welfare of the refugees, and finally we need to improve our rights and treat immigrants properly, and foreign workers who play a major role in the economic expansion of the country in recent years. Mr. President. Iceland is a wealthy country, and there is no difficulty in drawing up averages of prosperity. Remember, though, that in the shadow of average children who are lacking, young people who suffer from addiction, families in the affected state, poor people, and even though governments never prevent people from becoming sad, sad, sick, or dying, we can make sure that all children have the opportunity to cultivate their abilities and strengths regardless of their parents'economic situation. That's the advantage of everyone, for the key to a happy, progressive, and powerful society is indeed an equal one. Dearest nation. Life has plenty to offer, and we also need spiritual nourishment. Therefore, we should support all in sports, culture, and art. Our success there is much to the self - image of a small nation and to rejoice in the success of the last year, but in a world filled with extremes of hatred, suspicion, and fear, it is primarily tolerance, cooperation, and open - mindedness that determines whether we are a small nation or a great nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-12-2.u4	President. Good citizens of the country. When Icelanders have something to say but do not have anything to say, it is customary to talk about the weather. That tradition now appeared in the prefect of the prime minister's debate. The government is a system administration. It has no political vision, and we know why. We all know what this government was created for, only to divide the Ministers' chairs, and to prevent the collaborators from destroying their campaigns. However, it is proper to admit that the prime minister mentioned some noble goals in his talk, addressed beautiful things that all can agree on. But what about the methods, the government's vision of how they will achieve their goals? The little we heard about it was in the spirit of pseudopolitics and systems, about ticking into boxes with plans for bigger booths and more regulations and bans. Prime Minister mentioned a so - called equally paid witness, after which companies should submit to the monitoring that comes with it. Still, it is tempting to call it a hot feather. As far as I can remember, this is the case with the anti - government group of reverend. But the matter is just as wrong. In opposition to a constitution, corrupt and burdensome law code, it is impossible to see how to achieve its purpose. However, at the same time as Prime Minister, we refer to the establishment of an enterprise as an example of the success of the government in equality, its government is at war with large and important groups of women. It is all in the same book learned, expensive, complex, and unrealistic system solutions rather than active policies. A government government government with only nine months now has a new budget bill for the 100th anniversary of the state's sovereignty set up a record of 100 years in the expansion of the booth. The worst problem is that by the growth of last year and by 55 billion others now - this additional one does not improve the system, much of which goes on feeding a damaged system and increasing the problem. Thus, more than a portion of the increase in health will be taking root in the failures of the Ring Road, a decision that will turn out to be enormously expensive to society. However, while governments were formed as a terror alliance to stop the policy of groups of colleagues, ministers left greens do not seem to have received a memo or care nothing about it. They go their own way. At the same time as The Lancet's medical journal designated the best health care worldwide, a health minister who is not concerned with replacing the system with the Marxian way of health care. Free companions, experts, and other health care professionals who have worked pricelessly for decades now experience themselves in the line of fire. Everything should be placed directly under the Kingdom, and the state shall serve on the Ring Road in Reykjavík. The irony of fate is that the induction of this New Testament system takes place under the protection of the Independence Party. However, the result is likely to be double the health - care system where those who can afford it themselves pay for the ministry, who say break down the fundamental policy that the State provides the same well - being for all. Environmental Ministers seem to have explained to independents that the country has nothing to do with more energy. Despite the impacts of climate change, with all measures, the production of renewable environmental energy in Iceland will be thwarted. Interests in practical solutions for climate change, I suggested that I watch my talk from the Central Party National Assembly, all of which was about that subject. There are some good things, e.g. Research and culture support, but like other government actions, it is primarily about bans and inequities. Although the proliferation of electric cars is a noble and an important goal, it is unlikely that fuel and diesel cars will be banned in more than 11 years. It is impossible to tell how fast technology is moving and when everyone can rely on electric vehicles, but it's probably going to be some kind of reserve and those who live in certain places in the country may be given special permission to drive on conventional cars. But what if they move? Will they be allowed to come to the city in their trucks, or will they be stopped at the new toll on the transport minister's side and told to go to the City Line? Speaking of transport, recently the government saw reason to define its own transport policy as a disaster. This enabled her to take 4,000 million. K. from a special disaster fund to fix a road that had not been planned for financial gain. From transport to tourism; at the same time as the government contributes to the largest export work of the country by advertising emergency meetings for the article, they provide funding that cannot be remembered in the business of the article without the financial collapse. Then it is the White book on the financial system, a kind of political advantage of throwing the child down into the well and then boasting about perhaps planning to save the well some time later. Of course, the release of the White Book is delayed, but maybe that doesn't matter everything, because since the government took over, it has been playing out the possibilities of correcting the financial system in Iceland. The development of this system is now largely controlled by hedge funds in New York and London. Mr. President. As a special amateur culturalist, I can't afford to ignore merely referring to the advance party, a group established to be a radical reformer and did not produce much success in the power of radical rationalism, but thought that the best way to cope with the worst losses in the 100th-year story would be to yield all of its policies for the three Ministers, although one or two had worked. It has taken note of how the band has recently made all the greatest promises he made to his voters, even those in Congress, endeavoring to downplay them. The emphasis on a new hospital in a new location was given before political discussions began. The firm stand on the affairs of the financial system and Aion banks changed in speeches that things would just have to be like this. In transportation, the party reported: "No harm done! in that they consider it a special interest to find new places to charge road users to customs at higher taxes and costs. Most conflictable, however, is the country's homeland and its Icelandic food production. Despite the concern of this government, I believed it to be a better option than some others for farmers and settlements. There's something else. Agricultural emergency is left out, localized, or at least forgotten. Uninterested by the government. It is pretty clear that one of the largest budget increases found in the budget bill is that contributions are being made to increase the number of political ministers. This is vivid because we have a government that's only about one thing, it's just about itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-12-2.u5	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. We are here at the beginning of a new assembly, and we have provided a budget bill that looks forward to the next year and in all our work here today, and in winter we look to the future in many ways. At the same time, in the context of more than one milestone, we stand, especially in the context of the financial affairs that I would like to establish. As we know, for several years we've made up all the loans related to the economic assistance of the International Cash Fund. Next year, we complete loans related to the restoration of the financial system and in the budget bill that is now being submitted for the first time in the debt of public funds that we agreed on some years ago. These actions, this guard on the way to a stronger government, are important when it comes to the economic independence of the country; that we can be a political and economic independent and sovereign nation. It is a pleasure to see a country in so many important areas in this regard during the reign of the year. Each one of them is large in terms of government and economic interest. They indicate that we have been greatly successful in reorganizing the state's budget after the economic breakdown, and when the large contexts are examined, we are very clearly showing that, as we have applied to it, we have been able to strengthen economic, social, and social structures. These priorities have been well described in the national budget for the next year. They are closely followed in the budget bill now available for the council. Ladies and gentlemen. The budget shows the emphasis the government has on the different issues. I'm sure there's something that seems to look like the usual, but one thing we'll get at least one thing. to agree on; we have strong foundations now that we look to the future, we have transformed a narrow position into the best position Iceland has ever had, in economic terms. Therefore, we can be quite optimistic about the success of our work here during the winter. The first reaction to the budget bill has been, from the time that people feel that there is not enough work to do, to people who feel that the State is taking too much over, that it is too much to do. Of course, it would be easy to identify the incredible contradictions of this reaction. But I'm going to look at something else, perhaps a bit unexpected, which is, in spite of all that, it's really necessary to ask both of these questions, do we do enough? and, on the other hand, are we possibly overdoing too much? The criticism of the government that it does not do enough in individual fields is highly predictable, especially with regard to the financial bill. There are always areas where we could do better, and there are always areas where we would like to do better. In this regard, however, it would be more important to focus on priorities and accept the need for us to always accept the law of want. There are limits to how far you can go in giving money to social projects. The other question is also valid: Are we doing too much? Is it too bad? It has been observed that we are spending too much money on individual lawsuits without being careful enough to use them for the purpose of the application, not enough to throw higher sums of money into lawsuits without asking for results. There's a lot to do with this. But I'm going to make three points that are relevant to this observation. First of all. We have never provided a budget and work on the basis of a strategy where policy has been as clear as we do today. And today, the Ministry reports their annual reports covering their goals and priorities and asking for results. We've never gone further on this than we've been doing today. Second of all. We're building a basis for reevaluation of budgets for the Ministry of Economics and Economics. This is a systematic analysis of the basic expenses of certain cases or projects and asks: What has caused the increase in expenses in the particular area? In other places, this methodology has given rise to good results. It has proved to be most effective in setting priorities and ensuring their better use. That's what we're doing now. Third, I must mention that in spite of the expense interest here often mentioned, the cost of the State as a proportion of land production has not increased to a minimum. On that scale, the stall has nothing to grow. What's happening is that we are growing strong in order to take better care of community activities. It is a joy to buy better technical drugs, to take better care of society's interiors in so many ways, to buy perfect helicopters for the National Reservation, to build technical and better hospitals facing modern demand, etc. That we have more ability to carry out such tasks without adding to the wealth of the Kingdom is a cause for rejoicing. And as long as we do not increase the relative burdens of the state's funds, it is not really possible to say that the stall is growing. We have increased strength to carry heavier burdens. Then we will discuss the need for caution, the rich fund must use the good years to gather into the barn and make plans for the future. Some say that we are going too far to make the most of our time. On this occasion, I have to say one special thing. The last debt of some 660 billion dollars has been lifted. and premeditated into pension debt, unfunded, other 140 billion. The total total 800 billion that we have set aside for this very project to benefit the future, to reduce debt from the future, not to take it along with us into the future. This has changed completely, and it will not be overlooked when people want to discuss how we have spent a powerful economy, a fine economic growth, in order to look after a longer future. Besides that, if weather conditions take place quickly, the wealth of the Kingdom has been disfellowshipped, making sure that there is always a measure of space. Admittedly, the weather may suddenly turn into a resistance. We can't overlook it, that's what we find. No one has given us the guarantee that the most favorable forecasts of the economy will go on. It would be irresponsible to assume that. We cannot adjust our expectations according to the best possible stage in these areas. As we look back on this large context of the parts, the big picture, we can only conclude that we haven't overstepped, we've been strengthening the situation, and we're on a stronger foundation today than before. Good citizens of the country. It was a year ago that I mentioned on the same occasion that most of our external circumstances were very favorable. One of my main concerns was that we couldn't agree on how to divide the space. I also expressed deep concern that there was a growing labour market conflict and the arrangements we had made to resolve problems about buying and choosing in this country were over. Shortly thereafter, there was an unexpected election, and a new government has taken over. She has a broad political appeal. She has found a good balance in a government contract, and she has started cooperation with the workforce and has given a clear view of the future development of the country. We have shown the will to cooperate effectively with the labour market partners in the terms of the election and to begin the action that describes their good will. In the meantime, however, there has been nothing changed about the continuing importance of each of us being willing to contribute to the reconciliation in the community regarding the division of available space. If not, we have created an independent risk of weakening the stability. Usually, economic unrest takes its toll on those who suffer from illness. Good citizens of the country. Most of us agree that we have rarely been as strong as we do today, although something should not be taken for granted, that is the basis for making rich demands for living in Iceland today. When we speak in the world's highest esteem on human beings, perhaps among those who take ten places on that standard, it's quite reasonable that we make that requirement to say: "We should have one of the best education systems in the world, a health system that puts itself in the highest order, that the interior of society would reflect the fact that the value is here. We should be able to make that requirement. There is nothing wrong with the demand for a high standard of living. Happily, they have been in international comparison. The strong standing that we have at the beginning of this council, the strong position of the state's budget, is the most important factor in setting priorities. It is up to us, who are gathered here, to set priorities for the projects so that we can get along with them, and it is up to us to play wisely from the position in cooperation with the people of the land. Let us walk optimistically and be convinced of good results for that work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-12-2.u6	Dearest nation. I must admit that the last assembly was difficult for me. Is it so much because of the expectations I had for the ministry and for the people in this room and the disappointments I experienced when I realized that important matters would be offered in the name of stability, stability of government service, stability of power chairs? Stability - a word that I can see as much as it is used to mark the same state of state, chaos. A new bill for financing suggests that money will be added to litigation classes that have been overexploited for far too long. But when we draw water from a sinking boat with a spoon, the solution is not to provide a bucket but to drag the boat into a sling. The growth economy has created an illusion. When reality is that we have accumulated huge debt, the illusion is endless. Debate one another because of growing inequities, social tensions, and conflict and a debt to the environment, which is characterised by pollution and climate change. A debt that is so high that in 20 years it will not be paid with Iceland's carbon share. We need to be more ambitious and courageous than that, because the problem is a system error that sets the profits of big companies at the expense of the environment and the community. An economic system based on the definition of human beings as simple consumers has created social divisions that manifest itself in civil apathy, with far too many experiencing much and long - lasting futility. The purpose of this lack of purpose is Cronian depression, lack of emotion, and lack of compassion. President. Philosophor Paulo Freire compares modern schools to a productive industry designed to train individuals for their role in the market economy rather than to be designed to free their minds. He compares school with a bank where teachers place knowledge into the head of students, like money placed in empty bank accounts, and the value of students is to yield the most profit, which is the result of standard and measurable tests. Learn more, work more, buy more, hurry more, more - die. Is it surprising that individuals who grow up in such a system experience futility? V.E.G. The prime minister considers it important that we make sure that there will be a close, varied, and loving society in which we will live in harmony with the environment and ensure a strong economy and an equality. It's a beautiful vision, but I don't see how it's going to be reality with the present system, not while we're living in an economic system that is dependent on the relentless growth of the economy and in many cases driven by low-paying labor and increasing consumption of the public. Dearest nation. Time is an underappreciated resource. I read somewhere that a community without time was a community without soul. This crystallizes in an effort made in the 1970's to find out what factors would affect the ability and will of people to assist strangers. Theologians were divided into two groups and told to go to a classroom in another building. One group was told that they needed to hurry while the other group had plenty of time. Between the buildings, a injured man was in great need of assistance. The number of people came to his aid was observed. From among those suffering from lack of time, one in ten stopped to help this man, while two thirds of those who were not in a hurry stopped to help. When people are in a hurry, they lack the ability to cooperate, support one another, and contribute to the common welfare. Companies who suffer from lack of time are emotionally weak and easily panicking. People who do not have time to get out of community talk, thus allowing a small group to take over it. Thus, the power will be squeezed together and the most part will be silent. That's how we lose democracy. I'm glad to hear it. Prime Ministers speak in a talk about the fourth industrial revolution and the importance of being in the lead. But changed times require new solutions and new thinking, not patches on out - of - date systems. I also rejoice that there is a committee to be called, but I miss taking urgent action now. If it is to build a better community for all, we must work with ease, balance, and prosperity rather than guided by economic growth. The future cannot be centered on wealth and ever - increasing consumption. It must be about purpose and righteous and sustainable prosperity. This vision requires another system of economics that gives purpose to future generations and reverses dangerous developments in the process of short - term vision and self - interest, encouraged by the present system. V.E.G. In his speech, the prime minister says that it is important that we Icelanders become doers, not receivers. So I agree, it really matters. The groundwork for democratic society is that the general public is a product, a part of society. That is a goal that all of us should pursue. That is also why Piratars fight for abbreviated workweek, underdeveloped unfair impairment and social justice, since to be participants people need opportunity and time. The opportunity to participate will not be real until people's basic needs are reached and assured. While many people daily need to be concerned about food, clothing, and hosting themselves and their loved ones, people are very limited in their ability to participate in the community. President. I suggest that we start looking at the basic financial laws and understand that certain expenses are really an investment. Similarly, cutbacks are often cost - free. Social and environmental savings includes increased medical costs and educational cuts, leading to increased crime and drug abuse while the financial resources we use to promote better schools, improved health, social cohesion, and flourishing ecosystems are investments in a happy society that is making a great deal of money back. My fellow Americans. At our assembly, the president of Iceland asked what was more valuable than health and happiness. The answer is simple: Nothing. Nothing is more precious. So I suggest that we build a community and a career that is tailored to the needs of all people in the country, not just to the needs of companies. I suggest that we take advantage of our wisdom, knowledge, and solidarity to serve as a pioneer in our new community - oriented, prosperous, and balanced goals. I suggest we don't accept the idea that it is a natural and inevitable part of life that some things are going well and others don't, and that's just the way they are. We are a small nation, in fact, just one large family. We can do better than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-12-2.u7	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. Society is on the move. And that's how we want it too. Without change, there will be resolution and no progress. The technology and information revolution will change the way we live. It will change our situation, our career, and our education. The work will change and move regardless of the border. It is vital that society is prepared to accept future opportunities. But such factors as education and innovation are heavy enough to increase the quality of value and to improve the quality of living. The objective is clear for the government; to establish Iceland in the highest order and to promote competitiveness in as many areas as possible. The government stresses a wide range of employment life to support currency, reduces fluctuations, and ensures forethought in the survival of homes and businesses. In this regard, progressive tourism, solid fishing route, and Icelandic intelligence are important instruments of power in the coming days. While groundless growth has been in air transport, the contribution of the sector to GDP is becoming big as the living breads of many and is the product of considerable significance. It is now starting to shape the first flight policy in Iceland that will take all the factors that have to do with flying in this country. My fellow Americans. Despite all the good and much expansion, there are certain groups in society that do not enjoy its fruits to the full. We're not supposed to accept that. In this country, people should have equal opportunities for all to gain greater wealth and valuable things. In a recent report, Gylfi Zoëga warns that a high pay range of trips to travel can be incompatible in the long term, leading to a worse life span. Word is right: ▪ If this is true, it might be said that Icelanders had done as badly as they overused the fish stocks over the decades ago. In the practical history, travel would then be just one more of the fancy adventures A comprehensive opportunity for everyone requires cooperation and an honest conversation where mutual solutions are found so that the value creations will be equal as well as political stability that voters asked for a year ago. A policy of housing, advising, remuneration, unemployment insurance, education policy, exchange of pay, benefits and tax and provision is the focus of the government, the staff of the labour market and the head of the European Union for the past nine months or ever since the government was formed. The discussions have included: magazines have been put down by a board of dressers, and unemployment rates and the financial debt of pay have increased. Such meetings are an important means of listening to the focus of the labor movement, and in this conversation it is also important to consider especially lower income groups. That's what the government's gonna do. A sign of this is offered a significant rise in child improvement and an increase in character discount in a financial bill that is just the lower income groups. Visitors are one of the big issues. Real estate is high, far too high for some people, who are most evicted because there is far too little room for earning groups. Its consequences are spread to all households in the country in the form of higher housing costs due to indexing. Department of Social Affairs has made it clear that the area will respond to the problem of housing in agreement with the local communities. Then there is concern that there are interest differences in Icelandic banks outside normal limits compared to the North countries. A respectable president. Many of the projects have been put aside in recent years. The government strengthens educational, transport, welfare and health. The national competitiveness is based on the effectiveness of these basic factors and the harmony of international comparisons. The first budget of this government was greatly added and in a budget bill presented yesterday shows that progress is still being made. While good transportation is essential for a flourishing life in the country, there is abundant emphasis on adding to the road system, for the need has never been greater than today. It shows that much work is done to build up the transport system and to bring acceptable prospects. The amount of money has reached an increase, but this year 12 billion are going for maintenance and repair of the road system compared to 5.5 billion in 2016. And earlier in summer, 4 billion - 4,000 million - were added to this year's current strategy to protect the road system from further damage to large - scale traffic weights. I would have thought that everyone in this room could agree to say, "Don't we all agree on that? There is also a financial program that allows for a special 5.5 billion annual contribution, which will be added to the next three years. A total of 160 billion are expected to be used in the maintenance and construction of the road system over the next five years. The next week schedule, which will take into account budgets and projects set out by traffic security and development of the past few years. There is also a review of how large amounts of money can be increased to the new construction of the road system by means of a special user charge of individual types, so that they can be realized at the same time as we are revising the basis for remuneration of the road system. Good citizens of the country. The climatic plan for the next 12 years has been presented. Everyone there must act and do his part. These measures include energy exchange, but in the coming years, electrical vehicles are going to increase dramatically, hurrying up energy exchange and fulfilling ambitious climate targets. But what is most enjoyable is that climate targets and economic incentives work together. It's cheaper to run electric cars. It is also a positive thing to replace the exported and exported energy for clean domestic energy. To do this, you need to ensure access to electrical energy, electrical energy for vehicles, all over the country. That the government also wins. For me, it is urgent that residents around the country have equal opportunities, but many of them have had to put up with a lot of uncertainty about their operation. Thus, the language of sheep farmers is still unsolved, but in the current work, it must be guaranteed that balance tools are used to match demand and supply. The benefits are social and direct and indirect across the country. This has led to a rapid change in the development of land inheritance during the last few years, which has naturally caused many anxieties and anxieties. In this regard, it is not unusual to look to the rest of the northern countries to set conditions for sales in Iceland. Progress in the coming decades depends on how well we do it to improve our variety of employment. Our society is progressive. They work on the basis of cooperation and protect people's right to live in harmony with themselves and their environment. It is important for us here to put forth earnest effort to see and perceive the overall picture in order to make decisions based on national interests, both short and long - term. To find the best way, I have learned that listening is often the most important thing. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-12-2.u8	A respectable president. My fellow Americans. Once again, we are gathered, representing the people at the General Assembly, now at the 149th legislature. It was a measure of reluctance that I walked through. summer into vacation knowing that I could go flying out of all comfy ground because I could afford it. I could take a vacation, and I could enjoy it. However, when we are talking about the debate of the prime minister here tonight, we must be a little optimistic. We must say: It is not all bad. You can't always draw out the darkest shot, there are other things and seem to be a good desire for many works. That is not to say that I need to agree with what is being done here and now. That is not to say that I need to agree with the government in the priorities it puts in the way it distributes from our common funds. I'm not. I'm the seventh in line to get a punk tonight. Not one individual in the General Assembly who's been standing here tonight has been saying that there's become poverty. How many people of the country watching me now and observing what we're saying here tonight are actually poor despite all the economic growth, despite all the beautiful averages, the great prosperity, and the wealth that we can boast about, us, a nation among the nations, one of the richest? Isn't it time to open your eyes? So why don't we take a look inside and think, "What are the basic needs of man? What are the basic needs of all of us, the people of Iceland? Are they perhaps hiding in looking at us here, sounding out about how great we are and how awesome we are going to be all winter and do good things? No, the basic needs are food, clothing, and shelter. Our basic needs are to be able to run free heads without being trembling in the middle of a month because we can't make ends meet because we don't have enough food for our children because we're opening our eyes to think of ourselves as having too many children. Did we have too many children? Did I have an accident? Why am I sick? Why am I an invalid? Where to Find Help? We must realize, more dignified President, that no one asks to be an invalid, no one. In fact, it is enough to carry the burden of being a prisoner, often in your own body, though you may not also have to struggle to see things rarely that never seem to be the sun. Although this has rained a lot in the summer, like the highest. The prime minister spoke of in his debate, did not have to rain all year round, and be a fog with this particular group of people whose hearts I would like to believe that all of us in this room could agree to put our arms around, no matter where good comes from, and eliminate poverty in Iceland. What does that mean? Is that an open word? What does that mean, who is happy, and how much does he need again? We must realize that it is not a question of how many cents a person needs. All those living in poverty are not asking for any luxury. None of them ask for luxury. None of them can go to the theater; none of them go out to dinner. I speak from my own experience. Maybe once a month you can have pizza. My children didn't enjoy the privilege they had in the community, where things were said themselves. I'm sure you've had everything, had everything, got it all, got it all. Poor people in Iceland don't ask for anything like that. They only ask for reasonableness, they ask for justice and equality, and when they say that the tax system is to be equal, to equalize the terms, I ask: "Keep it, for example. in a full - time increase of the year? It almost doesn't matter what it is. No, the poor cannot drink alcohol even if it is sold in ATVR. It's pretty clear, they have to stop. Stop smoking, stop drinking, it's all supposed to go up. It's supposed to take billions of dollars for the year's sake, so, of course, it's just nonsense and nonsense and just for people who can afford it - like me. I can get into it now, getting a drink on a regular basis, very carefully, I can afford it. The fact is that food, clothing, and shelter must be minimal requirements for every Iceland who lives in a land as rich, successful, and productive as this has been announced all night. That's true too. We'll talk about the children. 9.1% of children live under varying degrees of deficiency and have only grown in all this prosperity. How can that be? How can this be done? And think about it, people are proud of it. I would have, for example. personally and Private never stood in the pit tonight as a representative of the government to brag at me about a 4% rise in character discount. The fact is, we're talking about 1%. 3% of this increase is due only to a legal index increase in person beat, and this 1% gives a total of 535 K. I don't know how we should try to cut the pizza, in how many pieces, to get a slice for 535. It's not even one sixth of it. Since we're talking about equations, prosperity, favors, and great things together, I'd love to talk last but not least about what was perfectly well done here this spring. I believe we can do exactly that over and over again, only if we stick together and want to. It doesn't matter if there are eight political parties at the International Assembly today. It is only important that we help, and we can do so as we did in our own day when we had a meeting with everyone in the Senate to eliminate taxation on funding to poor people who had to buy help. Now it's a matter of the highest order. Secretary of finance and I rely on it, and trust with all my heart that it will pass through and that our people will all be given it for Christmas. We can do more of this, and we can do it better. My fellow Americans. Let's have a great time. We'll have a great convention in the winter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-12-2.u9	My dear Icelanders. Here we are today, more than nine months after the government began ruling. At that time, there will no doubt be babies to be born at about the same time as the governments, and they are miracles of life. The same can be said, however, of the government's activities. There is little life in humans, and there are few miracles, if any. However, the heads of the government groups themselves seem to think of a wonderful miracle involving the formation of the government, that historical reconciliations of the so - called contrasted poles in the left - right - right political bitch merged. But what exactly did these groups agree on? With a completely different ideologies, they thought. During the past nine months, the identity of these groups has become clearer and clearer. They stand together for position and power. That's at least of which once was when a left green leader stood here some years ago, declaring that left green would certainly not fail his role as the personal and only ideological and political Head of the Independence Party in Iceland. Thus, it was a major turning point in the history of the left green when the sect formed a government with an independent class and a forwarding class after counting both themselves and its voters to believe that they were completely different. And now the same group of people speak for strengthening our confidence in politics - which we celebrate. But what is involved in trust other than loyalty to what you preach and preach before elections? The left movement of the green supply appears to be at least has given up on being the big antidote to the Independence Party. The fact remains that the political battle lines have changed, even turned upside down, and the former contrast between the poles is not so different after all. Wherever you go, they don't want to change anything. It's called conservativeness. Even retreat. Changes, however, would result in real improvement and stability for Icelandic homes, employees and companies in the country. And I have not begun to discuss the righteousness of the nation's having a fair price for resources that are common to us or beyond long out - out - of - date competitions, much less the root of the problem - the crown - the swing of itself, which, of course, cannot be discussed. We know that with change in money management and more discipline, the cost of households may be reduced many times in comparison with the countries we all compare with. We have already introduced and will follow, but because of all of this, we will be tested, the liberal elements of the council, to support the government. We believe that power distribution is good, that transparency is the foundation of democracy and trust, and that the public can trust that the various systems established by politicians over the years are for all, not just for some. Political speech changes with new political sources, as we also see that certain rear-and-insulation elements with sleazy nationalistic elements try to influence the debate. Then we will have to believe in free, open, marketed society again to resist and rise when recovery powers want to spread in the community, whether they work against timely changes in human rights and equality, or want to draw us out of profit - making international cooperation, such as the EEA team. As we look to the United States, we hope that the wise-mouthed Republican will stop the nonsense in Trump. The same thing applies here at home, we hope that free-minded people, no matter where they stand, will try to control this trend, say stop at the edge of this country. My fellow Americans. We are here to discuss the debate of prime minister, who I thought best to say would give us some promise into the future. However, after listening to the talk, I have to say that the contents are pretty dreary. In fact, bridge champions and administrative designers here have had more than political ideals and ambitions for real improvements in our community. In order to be reasonable, though, I would like to point out that certain aspects of the climate policy are very exciting, even though they are old - fashioned. And I hope that the prime minister has already secured the support of all the members of the board, since some of them are still still sitting at a council that most questioned at their feet in the past year and were loud when the same things were discussed in this context. The left green must face it and accept the criticism that it is simply the transfer device that connects these algal classes together. Thus, the conservative program is perfected, three to keep the special interest that the senators of the left green have, in fact, criticized here in this same chair of speech, up to foaming, over the years. To show their true face, they took only a few months apart from being in a hard race, not from the old government covenant. Why must I ask, Mr. President, what will be the government's record list of greens? Could it be that large fishing costs in the seaside instead of creating a reconciliation and looking for fairer solutions for the nation's combined resource? This is where the humiliation of the leadership party in the government will be absolute? What about education? Of these, the prime minister hardly uses a masquerade. And in order to bite the head off, students should again wait for a new loan system that has been under way for far too long. And will it be one of the achievements of the list that if a person is desperate, he will still have to wait for the legal right to cancel a dollar in return? And what about health care? Will waiting lists be on top of the government's record? In this country, people are really on a waiting list for an interview in order to get on a regular waiting list for their own actions. Will patients continue to be sent to Sweden after years of waiting, resulting in further health problems and financial loss? Of course, it's all twisted. All because they cannot consult independent operating doctors, and the government refuses to use the benefits of different management forms for patients. Of course, this includes the Independence Party. Our policy in restoration is clear, the patient is priority and is to receive the best service regardless of the economy. After all, there is a government running here that will not rock the boat for power's sake and while the principal sponsors of the board are smiling over, quite satisfied with their people. Theirs is the harvest. Thus the government will survive, and the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir will ensure her inheritance as the first prime minister for five years in order to complete a perfect season. But I'm afraid the price tag will cost the public and the companies in the country. Once again, the conflict of interests is postponed. My dear Icelanders. The little government child whom we so would have liked to see the world and to obtain that wide appeal for big and important matters was, in fact, nothing more than an idea. Instead of seeing something beautiful born that we were led to believe would change the political scene, we are seeing a certain illusion and disappointment, an idea that is not in control of homogenies, and discouragement in a cry - out situation. In view of this scene, our role in restoration, as advocates of freedom, equality, and international cooperation, is more important than ever before. It is a role that we take seriously. Live the multi-channel game. Always. Everywhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-12-2.u10	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. Today's political struggles are all well known, but they are also new and frightening. Social inequities and poverty, conflicts and violence drive millions away from their homes, and there is light in the air. Foreign hatred, woman contempt, and cruelty with all kinds of minorities; queer people, refugees, ethnic offenses, or certain religious backgrounds. History tells us that it does not necessarily need a clean part to cause a turning point in whole communities, and even the whole world, to change history. At such times, political movements and groups may be the principles of democracy and human rights, resist stupidity and abuse of power, and do not succumb to the temptation to compromise their speech with the rage and hatred. The basic values of humanity and equal right, equation, and peace are important. They must always be careful about what they do. The left movement in the green supply now leads the government across the political spectrum of Iceland, the government focusing on the government of the country that is being discussed here tonight. The government thing is about three main currents to my mind. First, the emphasis on balance and socialism and, above all, the design of infrastructure that had long since become necessary to promote health and education, social, transportation, and communication. Second, for prospective plans on big issues, large issues of the new century, environment, climate, innovation in all areas, but also for democracies and information, where so much has been called for reform. Finally, and third, the growth of the Allied Council, with added emphasis on cross - political work on large policy issues and on increased political support, especially on government opposition classes. My fellow Americans. It has been said that economic stability is the basis for good society, but social stability is just as necessary, that people can be trusted to compete for equality and balance, that the insides of society think, that no one is left behind, that education, health and well - being are available to all, that families live in maternity and play schools that accept it, that state of schools and stable education, that human beings bring joy and vision to us all eight years of the year cycle, that they are able to work hard for success, and that a roofing over their head, young people can go to home, and get ready for their time, old people will be able to take on and live with dignity to the last day. At my table, there is one vital part of social stability, a complete and reasonable health care that has the patient and the community in first place. We are going to develop a clear policy and strengthen it in every way. The work that is done every day will be done for the next year and years. Patients should be reduced and accessed to the products in the North countries. Iceland's health services, as everyone knows, have long suffered from releases and poor financial resources, have been so fragile that it is urgent to correct them. A number of parties and assessments have produced unique features of this position, now the last state accountant to deal with the government's unremarkable purchase of health services, but previously Mckinsey had pointed out that much more can be done, and especially in creating a whole-scale system in which the local picture is clear. I too and my people have exerted themselves to acquire information and experience on these subjects and to seek as the most clear picture of the situation and of the necessary improvements. It's got everything at the same well. The lack of an overviewed and targeted project that has long led to a waiting list in some materials, while overheating elsewhere. Such fragile systems are not good for patients, for those in their respective groups, or for the whole community. By providing careful health care policies, by building the strong and reliable services of public hospitals and health institutions, by promoting walking departments and by trusting health care throughout the country, but also by expounding agreements for health care and support to the sick and elderly through Iceland's Medical Insurance, where the objectives of the agreements are clear and sound and quality requirements are clear, where the services and where they should be served - thus approaching a global system and a more efficient and better service for all. The curtain is the firm and powerful health system for all of us who have our own, and the nation has called for it. In this way, we make the best use of funds, as all research shows, and at the same time support other sectors of the ministry. A team is already starting in the fall of the construction of a new Hospital of a new University Hospital, which will provide services to patients and the working environment of the health professions of the country in a completely new place. But the project is bigger and bigger, as we've traced it. We are going to advance in all areas of health care, prevention, stringing together the strings, and energy of all those who work to improve their health and health wherever they live and what their economic situation is. That my watch is being worked hard in the government of three categories and under the leadership of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-12-2.u11	Mr. President. My fellow Americans. Iceland and I have quite a few things in common. At the same time, however, we are in many ways a nation of contrasts: Kingdoms/poors, old/old, national/city, fishing/fishing, state/continents. And even though you are only over 350. We find it a challenge to put ourselves in the place of one another. All of us, though, are asking for the same thing: That the situation is not abnormal, the rules are reasonable, and that all have equal opportunities for a decent life. All too often we seem unable to discuss exports and paths, and rather, we get caught up in a single discussion of the right to exist. As a member of the Parliament, we may not always be exemplary in this chair and need to be more careful, but as a nation, we also need to be careful about social discussions. It would be easy to blame the community, but the fact is that our decision and responsibility lie behind us. It is up to us to determine how we use the servers. My dear Icelanders. We are a small nation, but in many ways we have been successful. I believe we can do so much better. As a rich nation, we should easily be able to set priorities so that as many as possible have it, build up the best health system, ensure sexual equality, ensure the care of the elderly lifetime nights, enable the microdoers to live decent lives. Of course, there are other factors. In a community that increasingly rely on electricity, electrical energy is rarely equally relevant. A new electrical forecast recently published by the Power Institute assumes that emissions from the public network will increase by 80% to 2050. It refers, not to an increase in industry, but to the increased use of homes, shelters, and fishing. To answer that question, we need to answer two major questions: How will we strengthen the transport systems of electricity in order to ensure the availability of all the people of the country? And also: How are we going to ensure sufficient electricity? Therefore, we must rejoice in the steps taken in the new climate control programme of the government. However, it would have been good to see larger steps taken and real system changes, such as the highest. The prime minister preached. Then there is the fact that 34 measures require increased electricity. Of course, this difficult decision lies ahead, but if we cannot, how can we expect other nations to do so? Ladies and gentlemen. We should not be afraid to think outside the box. We're here to promote innovation in the administration. But it's all too often that the computer says no, instead of looking for ways to support those who don't fit into the box. Surely we want a society that is short - lived with those who need it. V.E.G. As a matter of fact, a minister of finance does not tire out in telling us how good we are and we should not be complaining. Sadly, though, the reality is that social problems seem to be growing rapidly, such as increasing drug abuse. A new surgeon report shows that during 2016, 9% of youths reported suicide attempts. It's the ones who survived. We must ask ourselves, " What is wrong with a society where that is true? ' How can we change that? There are many things to be done, but unfortunately, there is still a lack of vision. We need to bridge the gap between us, reduce our facilities, and increase the equation in our community. My dear Icelanders. We must want the best possible Iceland for everyone, not just some.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-12-2.u12	V.E.G. President. My dear Icelanders. It's about to start a new assembly after a vacation. It's in my mind that it's a privilege for a man like me to have had the opportunity to sit in the General Assembly. I have been a worker for the entire age of my career, watching politics through the media, and taking the political discussion as the anonymous laborer. The anonymous workers are exactly my heroes. When asked how I like the dance, the answer is often: Well, it's like being on a big ship with a heavy load of cargo, with tow and hard to hold on to course. But still the ship goes on. Political can be a tough bitch sometimes. Untender and cruel. However, the great General is a seminar where we politicians are involved and are to do so. It sometimes wants to be forgotten. Extensive technological advances have taken place in virtually every aspect of the past few decades. At the same time, the world has reduced and made us neighbors to one another, even though oceans and mountains separate countries from one another. A new world scene has both the benefits and the challenges that must be met by careful planning. Because of Iceland's global status, changes are often ahead in countries we compare with and should take advantage of their experience. But how do we feel about the Icelanders as a nation? My experience, in less than a decade after a financial collapse, is that it is often the foundation of good. Have we political leaders been equally successful in working out the consequences of the disaster? Far too much is brought on by the dissatisfaction rather than the courage of the nation, for trust in politics is far too limited and support is needed. Remuneration in this country is bad. Many credit institutions are faceless monsters, which are often difficult to attend. People are no longer human to the various institutions, but numbers or numbers are listed. I have to ask about government policy on transportation. The use of butts will continue or will attack a long fractured road system, including because of the huge increase in cars on the highways of the country? V.E.G. Until recently, a secretary of transportation has spoken against ideas about possible roadtolls. During the past few weeks, the minister has been talking about the changed circumstances and the need to consider the matter on special projects. Is there a conflict of policy in these matters within the government, the governments of the broad appeals? Often needed, but now it is necessary to see and hear about the policy of transportation. If we want to build up on the land, good transportation is to be a wise and profitable investment. In the fishing business, it is reported that the expansion of this article has never been greater than at this time. Expensitizations in labor departments have declined since 2005 from 946 projects to 382 this year. The situation is extremely serious, but the fishing system needs to be at peace. The talk about the system needs to be unexcited and reasonable. I hope that the bill that will provide the first few days of the Council for the resource expenditure will result in the possibility that small and medium-sized productions will be able to provide practical groundwork. The system policy will always be based on the ability of all types to thrive and the interests of the whole country to work together with the interests of the development. I participated in a field analysis of the future of agriculture for a summer at the Hotel History. There were people from various fields of agriculture. This was a fun career in the future of agriculture on a number of occasions. Icelandic food production must protect Iceland. That's what we'll do in the Central Party. Health matters are very focused, never lacking - or what? If we are going to take good care of health care, there is probably one of the most wise things to do. Addictions that often lead to mental disorders, as well as cancer, vascular and heart disease, are expensive to us. Helping people with drug problems is good business, topv. Secretary of health. To reduce life - style diseases, prevention can be done, where people learn to live and often be cured if properly guided. This is called on secondary prophylaxis in some cases. That's the way you keep counting. I've been asking for a special discussion about prevention here at the Congress Hall, which hopefully will be a step toward developing a real priority policy and making money. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-12-2.u13	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. V.E.G. The prime minister described the plans of the government on some major issues that the government held together to implement at the beginning of the government community service. The affairs of the government will not all be over during this council winter, but many have already been initiated and even directed by the government for the smell of some of its members during this council winter. All these matters of the government, just as I expected, are presented wholeheartedly and in the effort and belief that these are progressive steps, they are all in favor, although individual cases do not necessarily reflect the viewpoint of each one of us who built this country. V.E.G. The minister of finance turned aside in his talk to our nation's economic independence and, at the same time, described rare economic conditions. A great deal of water has run into the ocean since an international financial crisis struck us with tears ten years ago. The strong situation described by the secretary of finance enables us to carry out what the government has agreed to do. Economic independence is essential for progress, but there is no direct indication of improvement or prosperity. That's where everyone's doing it. A fundamental factor in this matter is to recognize it and accept the fact that economic independence is not natural laws. Economic independence must be maintained by careful and firm action against those who do not want to recognize the importance of this independence. It will not be a substitute for economic independence through Iceland's membership in the European Union, as the chairman of the United States proclaimed in his speech from a gray prelude. Here and outside, there are often time - consuming discussions about projects requiring taxpayers'financial contributions. That's normal. Sadly, though, projects are often appreciated by means of financial resources, as if progressive steps cannot be taken without the help of the next year's budget. Fortunately, it is not. In this winter, I will present a bill that has underlined the job of e-mailing e-mails. Of course, electronic records are already involved. That's why I say work title. However, if the bill was called a name that accurately described its contents, I have been told that it would not capture the attention of people other than those employed in the ancient field of Congress. Even there are some in this room who have told me this case is as exciting as the last minute of our two boys' national games. But this subject is exciting, it will bring centuries - old methods in an important public ministry. I refer to this case as an example of the focus of this government on improving citizens' services by shortening down time, increasing access to the service, and minimising failures to support it, and at the same time reducing costs. We know what a revolution was there when individuals and businesses were allowed to report in electronic form. This year the secretary of finance introduced electronic stress notes that have provided taxpayers with an increased and clearer view of tax pay. In health matters, the use of electronic services is increasing. At that time, the travel secretary has announced electronic solutions to the permit and registration of travel services. We will, in the very near future, be very effective in public service electronically. Although I do not endorse cross - political solidarity on any subject, I expect the General Assembly to have excellent opportunities to improve the public ministry of modern technology, and I look forward to a discussion on these issues as well as others in this council winter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-12-2.u14	President. Senators. Citizens of the land. A new assembly is on its way. An even higher rate of air pollution is needed than usual, a dress interview is closer to toughness, and Iceland's largest trade, tourism, seems to have more years than ideal. At the same time, Iceland is dropping on a variety of indicators from 10th to the 13th press freedom, from 13th to 23rd to innovation and direct foreign investment has been reduced in the last two years. Economic growth in the past few years has been poorly used. Instead of developing a more diverse economy, promoting education and quality of life, and building Iceland to the highest levels of international comparison, all of us have been concerned with achieving virtual goals for the low debt of the state at the expense of everything else. The lack of structure is about to come to our back. More bridges were built in Iceland in 1973 than in the last decade. We may have a lower need for bridges now, if it should grow, but we're more likely to need ideological bridges as never before. The major goals have been lost, and the basis for the economy is still small again, a decade after collapse. It is a landscape for coming councilmen, but it has an opportunity to do better. In the days of today, one of the greatest innovation companies in the country was sold to South Korea, which is recognition of the tireless work of founders and workers in CCP. It's an important injection into our economy, but at the same time a reminder that Iceland is a difficult place to run a business. During the past year, several significantly smaller, yet remarkable innovation companies have had to cut off operations and other battles. We must stop making it difficult for ourselves. High interest rates, high nasal taxes, high thresholds for participation, limited ideologies, limited mentality, and limited currency - this holds us off. It is Generalis to remove these barriers and make it easier for people to succeed. Do these barriers agree with the value of Icelanders? During the 2009 meeting, many fine values for Icelanders were observed, including Honesty, respect, justice, equality, love, responsibility, freedom, sustainableness and democracy. We're getting a speech at the top of the line. Prime Minister that the government may be getting closer to those values, but it is still a long way off. The gap between expectation and reality has to be bridged. President. This is an opportunity to set goals for us by the decade after the year of collapse. First and foremost, all aims for the future need to take into account the environment. The damage to humans has caused atmosphere and life, ensuring that our future will not be a mule to the irrefutable failures of short - lived vision. There are several ways in which the government is conducting a operation, but the project is huge. Three species of organisms die out each day already. Climate change is on the way to making some parts of the earth uninhabitable. Our responsibility is immense. We also need to pay attention to the worldwide system. In the last century, the president of the United States has come to destroy the systems established by mankind to meet common challenges. Seta Iceland in the United Nations Human Rights Council of Human Rights is an opportunity to bring the world forward, but it is not enough to promote noble goals and important objectives of sexual equality and about the affairs of queer people if the United Nations itself is instigating the efforts of national peoples. International trading is also under attack. Even here in this room, there are people who do not remember what life was like for the EEA Convention and who doubt the advantage of having access to international markets, but Icelandic society is entirely rooted in the ability to do great business with other countries. It is therefore essential to protect, strengthen and develop the EEA contract, even if some countries choose to sacrifice their future on the altar of isolation policy. Our future also depends on many other things, resources, health, opportunities, and progress. Education for future generations may, for example, be required. it is not a matter of reviewing what was. Rather, we need to adapt to a world where all human knowledge is found in tiny devices in each pocket, but considerable skill is needed to make full use of this technology. Our professional roads are also changing, and our way of life is changing. Make up your mind. It was a liberal democracy that brought us here. It was a great ambition that made us here, but now we need to be even more ambitious as a nation and to build bigger and more remarkable bridges for the future. My fellow Americans. Everyone sees that the next few years might be difficult. A storm grows as the horizon rises, and in the coming storm, we need to find a balance. Storms are going to come, but we're gonna have to stop them. The doctrine of Pirata at this council reflects this. The goal is to make all the effort lighter, to build up, to strengthen, and to improve. Consider the future, but let us protect what has been accomplished. Of course, we will support all the good things that are seeking to achieve those goals. Congress of Pirata wishes the government and the General luck in the coming affairs. We'll probably fight, and we'll deal, but that's okay. While handling methods, our objective should always be the same, to work toward the best decision for land and nation. Let the conflict therefore be honest and forthright, considering each other's ideas with an open mind. Likewise, I say to the whole Icelanders, The senators are here for you, by your authority. Remind us of this regularly and help us to help you by providing us with helpful guidance as needed. There is nothing more to be done than to get busy working together for the benefit of the nation and, in fact, for the whole world. Teamwork is essential to success. Let's go to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-12-2.u15	A respectable president. Good Icelanders. Education is essential to the progress, prosperity, and competitiveness of each nation. This government has advanced education, and in the coming winter, we will work hard to make good education even better. Since the beginning of the year, I have seen positive developments in several fields of education. First of all, there is a high level of education in industry, to-do, and to-do, and there is an increase in some articles of 33%. On the one hand, there has been a significant increase in the number of students who apply to university teachers. Finally, elimination has been reduced in high school. That development is positive and encourages further fine works in this regard. A clear policy in education is essential to every nation, a course that is based on what the situation is, what we are going to do, how we want to do it. One of the biggest projects ahead is the model of education to 2030. It is indeed a joy to know how many are willing to help. There is a national conference to shape educational policies across the world, issues, and categories. And it's even the highest. Minister of Justice. Good citizens of the country. If the United States disappears, knowledge will be lost and we will no longer be a nation. These words of Mrs. Vigdís Finnbogadóttir are true and have business with our community. It is vital that we do not lose sight of the importance of speaking our own language. It is a heavy responsibility for our shoulders to address the challenges of the language at a time and to respond in a decisive way. Today, a complete program of action was presented in four teams aimed at promoting the future Icelandic issues. The approach leads to a publication, a media, a digital future, and 22 teams aimed at promoting the Icelandic language. During the opening days of the council, a administrative bill will be submitted to legal support for a publication in Icelandic. The goals are clear. We are going to contribute to a flourishing edition of Icelandic literature and to improve locks, especially for children and young people. Good citizens of the country. The media play an important role in sharing information and as a platform for discussions and exchanges. They reflect our history and maintain the English language. According to one estimate, the environment of the unique media in this country is difficult. Iceland is the only country in the North countries that does not support in any way the private media. We're going to make it right. Today there was a presentation of operations. It is extremely important to create fertile soil for the diverse flea media, which is designed to produce and transmit good news in Icelandic countries. Now is the time for our actions, and we are going to strengthen the English language for the future. Good citizens of the country. As a nation, we are to press ahead in all things. Our goal should be that we have an excellent education system here and that all young people find a proper study and a way to find their talents. I think it's very important that we all gather to shape the education system, which will be excellent. - Have a good time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-12-2.u16	Mr. President. Good Icelanders. We live in good times at every standard. The goal, however, is that of later members of society who are in poor standing. The groups of elderly, desperate, and low - income families appear to be forgotten in the eyes of the government and can expect to remain forgotten. After less than a year of living, it can be evident that the government is rather dulling its eyes toward them in our growing society. Everything is about the same thing as before, a desperate person is in a man - made poverty trap, and he is suffering financial failures, trying to improve his own interests. In spring, all members of the council agreed to suggest that we stop taxing money on medical or medical expenses, hearing aids, and other things like this were income. For some reason, the case is not seen in the government file, although it was agreed upon as a convergence that authorized a minister to return such a bill in the fall. The taxation should continue to be taxed, which does not charge progress according to the government's own criteria. In contrast with the U.S. Stockholm conflict that earners of less than 300,000 dollars are exempt from income tax, false financial information is claimed and the proposal for such compromises against underpayers and reformers should also include high-payers. That's a lot of money that's supposed to black out the proposal. The government's reporting such close - to - date increases in tax limits. Rising reforms have not worked out as planned because of the rules of distribution, so there is a danger that the government's corruption in this subject will prove to be virtual. The work of the government appears to be marked by calmness and quietness, while the people call for change, not indifference to the interests of the lazy. It has been impossible to handle the business of the people and middle - income workers, and it is not available to solve the problems of disability and reformers. The experience from the past council is that it puts a stone in our path, who try to cut off the poor people from the outside. The people involved are forgotten and should remain forgotten. But the government will not forget its friends. A rich enterprise is to be given a reduction in fishing costs for a valuable resource without the notice of a general response in this article. Some wish friends are to be allowed to operate on public property in some national fund that is impossible to see or any role beyond that of a government fund. The banks are to have the bank tax reduced, and credit agencies continue to keep their own insurance, which is so precious to them, as is understandable. A financial minister has informed in response to a request from the one quoted below over the past five years that as a result of housing loans cost 15 billion because of a general increase in prices, while prices for the indexial housing departments have studied 118 billion dollars. The housing team has appeared like a greedy monster that has absorbed billions of dollars on top of it, year after year, from the homes and businesses of the country. But the government will act as if nothing has happened and nothing will stop it. It must not be broken. It is as if financial stability were to be lost if family, parents, and children were to be left out of their homes. In response to a justice minister's request from the court, it says that from collapse in 14,000 families were expelled from their homes. We're talking about 30,000 people, the highest. President. This is the tenth part of the country. It is as if there were natural disasters or wars around here, and that is the damage to homes. Warfare, yes, it is as if there is a war on the homes where nothing is brass. These things know fathers, mothers, and children. The government shrivels its shoulders and has no defense for homes, as if it were natural laws, that in this country people are doing credit rates that would be considered unsurpassed in our neighboring countries. There is no country in our part of the world that offers like a loan on apartment loans, as it is done here. The problem of such loans in neighboring countries is usually about 2% at this time. Mr. President. It will be a task to do here at the Council of the United States for the winter to break our quietness and peace. Men will see our bills in this subject and other forms of compromise so as to see that those who are forgotten when the government is involved will no longer be. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-12-2.u17	President. My fellow Americans. A beautiful word is a funeral. But their movement is changing and changes are having opponents. That is what Robert Kennedy, then U.S. Minister of Justice, said in 1964, and that is certainly still true today. This government is an opposer of change. In fact, this administrative work is designed to help prevent the necessary system changes in Icelandic society. It's a stationary control. It has no plan to take action to ensure comparable interest to our neighboring countries, to ensure a constant currency or to contribute to lower food prices. Nor would there be any desire to promote a greater agreement on the nation's share in profiting from the use of our common resources. This is not the subject of this government. A stick in this government business is unprecedented spending fees, at the climax of the good news. V.E.G. In fact, prime minister reports his government's extra expenses by allowing the president to be more than any political group proclaimed for elections. You ask yourself, " Have these classes been met only by bringing together the spending words they proposed for their last election, no compromises, no priorities, just one total payout? ' This government is a waste management. It's interesting to examine a word that's at the top. In view of the findings of the World Council of Research Committee at its time, the prime minister, including the permission of a president, said: Sadly, it seems inevitable to conclude that the policy of government has, in effect, fueled the imbalance. The government decided to lower their taxes during the run-in. This was done in an effort to counsel experts, even against the better judgment of those in charge who made the decision. The decision was extremely critical. These warning words should make us think now. Although much has gone our way and a much better balance is in the economy now than before a collapse, many familiar warning lights have begun to flash again. Governments in this country have rarely run economic policies. They have not been careful about the influence of citizens on thawing, inflation, or interest. It would be almost to talk about spending policy in the material, spending the dollars that come in the box. This mistake should now be repeated, and worse, the government seems to be quite proud of the fact that the above words are stated. Prime Minister here earlier tonight. Although living here is great, it cannot be denied that Iceland is simply too expensive a country. A family of four pays, e.g. About 150,000. more per month for food and growth than the same family in the North countries. If we were to fix it, it would be nearly 300,000 dollars. increase in pay for this family per month. There would be a pay raise. This government wants to remain stable in these matters, but instead it boasts about 500 K. an additional increase in personality discount per month for the pay people in the country. Forgive me, but this is one cheese bar every three months. The lack of government economic policies as well as unstable coin is the primary reason for the growth of hair. This government's waste policy will continue to ensure high growth and inflation. We feel that this is one of the most urgent interests of the nation, and we will provide solutions to these matters during the coming council. My fellow Americans. The fear of the government in growing competition for food production is one of the main causes of high food prices in this country. At the same time, we use a much higher imports on agricultural products than our neighbors and other sources of competition. The interests of consumers are served there. Here, as is so often the case when these groups are involved, the public interest in special interests is replaced. Icelandic agriculture can be supported, but at the same time, it also provides support for consumers. You need a new thought in the agricultural business. It takes courage to change, it is difficult to resist special interests in order to fight for the greater benefit of the common people, but that is what we have resolved on the restoration. It's our responsibility here at the Council to attack the changes needed to make it cheaper for all of us to live in Iceland. But there this government has clearly demonstrated that it is not her job. She throws down the expensive lessons of the ages and, in fact, decades. Her desert policy is irresponsible, and for that irresponsibility, the public pays off. We all make mistakes, Mr. President, that's only human. But repeating the same mistake over and over again - that is simply stupid.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-12-2.u18	A respectable president. My fellow Americans. Whether we are young or elderly, wherever we live and regardless of the differences between us may be, there is one thing we all have together: nature of the land. Nature has a unique attraction, economic value, and brings us joy, currency, and employment. She's our yellow egg. Me and the Icelanders are supposed to be leading around the world. We have the option to act on what a small and united nation can do. Let's have faith in us. To stop driving our infrastructures on contaminated and imported fuels, we must first have countries. Let's think outside the box to handle the ever - increasing plastic mountain of the country and its inert consumption. My fellow Americans. The government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, has given much attention to the environment. Climate is the most important issue of the 21st century. I remember from school how some teachers postponed their essays and projects, and I have to admit that while others did not, that sometimes did well. In climate issues, you don't want to get every day. There are no deadlines. In this country, there is a first edition of the work programme for climate change and a number of important projects are on their way to implementation in cooperation with society. Time for action. Another important road is under way. A Federal Committee with its members at the General Assembly, and representatives of the European Union are now planning for the establishment of a national park in the centre of Iceland. I allow myself to state that there has never been such an ambitious mission in nature protection in Iceland. There is a great opportunity for the peace reports for the economic and economic life of the country by working and serving with tourists who attend home. In the Treaty of the Government, there are campaigns in terms of peace, and this week's general presentation will include the first peace-telling areas of the 2013 Preservation Programme. In the years that followed, large funds have been assured to build up places for tourists in peace - related areas, and new institutions for national parks and protected areas are being prepared. It will greatly promote nature protection and increase the access of rural society to the control of natural protection areas. Mr. President. As the UN's global objective on sustainable development reveals, global environmental issues have changed. Environmental issues are no longer seen as opposition to progress, but as a foundation. They are essential to quality of life, peace, a prosperous economy, and the basic needs of society. This requires a new approach and cooperation across litigation and political lines, as indicated by the introduction of 7 Ministers of the Action Programme in Climate Project. This is an important change in Icelandic politics, which is fun to participate in. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-12-2.u19	My dear Icelanders. This week, one Icelander will die from an overdose of drugs. This week, one Icelander will commit suicide. This week, some 6,000 Icelandic children live in poverty, and this week some 100 seniors live in the hospital, since other options are not available. What a sad testimony to a fine society! It doesn't have to be this way. We are only 350,000 on this island, and we are the 11th richest country in the world. We do not have to let older citizens live with uncertainty and poor conditions. We don't need to punish micro-piercs for winning. We do not have to place less money at our university than our neighbors do. We don't have to let midwives get in a fight. We don't have to have a community where the richest 1% of the population owns more than 80% of the population. We don't have to have the mayor of the village crew on a higher salary than the mayor of London. We do not need to reduce the cost of hunting to half the extent possible in order to protect one's personality. And we don't have to be one of the most expensive countries in the world. My dear Icelanders. It's not an exciting government, it's a record-rate failure. This is the government of special interest and purchases. There are any princes in the government, whether for whale hunting, a whisker argument for midwives, a judge's orders, foreign policy, or welfare. According to the budget bill, the hospitals and the police get less than they need. There are still older citizens and patients in waiting lists, but there are many of you who have come to know the need to wait for your own legal resources or your elderly parents, and then there is very little help with alzheimese patients in our community. Today, even for our children, treatments are too limited, and facilities for young people are still too expensive. On the other hand, it is clear from the financial bill that large counterfeiters do not have to go into a big fight with this government, as a midwives had to. My dear Icelanders. If the Union comes to power, we promise to change this community for the better of ordinary people, not just for some as this government seems to do. The company will feed on the older cities, the farmers, and the young men of this land. The union will never accept a society where one Icelander dies in a week from an overdose of drugs. The union wants out with insurance and high interest, but it's best with a new currency. The Company wants the new constitution of the people, and they want to fight international Fascism and narrow - mindedness. The Company wants to put the interests of consumers, innovations, and small companies in the foregrounds, not the interests of the Radarsell and big-funded. And then the Union wants a free society where freedom from capital is not priority but freedom from poverty. My dear Icelanders. We have everything in our country if we want to. Let's stop pausing our special interests and self-employing team as this government does. Let's listen to the usual Icelander and make his life easier and less expensive. That's what the government is for. That government, however, is not.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-12-2.u20	A respectable president. My fellow Americans. It is a joy to meet at this point in the fall, in the state's Senate, in the hearing of a financial bill, and in giving their application to the prime minister. However, it is a shadow of the fact that things have been done today and yesterday suggest that the government agreed to give us more of the same, more of the same thing we received last year. Last year we were announced that there was a great deal ahead of us in transportation. This year's focus on transportation has become so seared that it falls into two lines and a single word in a sermon. Prime Minister. In terms of transport funding, it seems that the budget is assuming that for a time it will still be replaced and that it will claim that the lot of transport ministers is not jealous. There are limits to what can be cut thinly. This underscores the need for us to approach these matters in a new way. Let's think outside the box. A respectable president. V.E.G. The Minister of Environment was asked in an interview last day about how Iceland can meet the energy needs needed by a new estimate by the Power Agency for the year 2050. The projections suggest that energy demand will increase by about three of the mixed operations during the period without the existence of new major users. The minister's reply was wise to listen, but he said, by permission of the president: If we look at the current 2013 program, we have a so - called energy efficiency category more than an electrical demand of 2050. It was a fine answer, as far as it goes, but if we look into the playwrights only, we will find that projects defined in the new system of things are far from getting a course. For example, the most important issue of this loss in energy efficiency is the whale surgery, which has been a kidneys class since the first version of the frame plan. It is clear to all who know that those who oppose the activation do not view it as acceptable. It is just like any other energy efficiency project thought to be preconceivable to fight back with full force. In the event that you are looking at it, you will no longer be able to find all of your good policy frames that were designed to make up for energy efficiency end up in the trash can. That would be very damaging. A respectable president. The visit of health - care ministers to institutions that are out of the system at Ring Road is amazing, especially in view of the fact that we have one of the best health care systems in the world. Whatever may be the case, advice, expert physicians, or anything else in the way should not be satisfied with the efforts of a minister. In his efforts to achieve his aim, the facts are unsettled, and it seems that the purpose of the sacred purpose of a minister and the system of plays is carried out. To bite the head off, patients are sent to a private agency in Sweden, often with an Icelandic doctor who performs the operations abroad, so that there is no need for the fanaticism that the European Ministry of Health is facing. At that time, the solution to the suffering patient is three times more expensive than the one given service in the 109 mail code. The strange thing is, all of this seems to happen with approval and support of the Independence Party, and I'm sorry. Therefore, it should be particularly noted that in a medical hearing earlier this evening, she said, which is obvious, though, that by autumn the construction of a new Hospital will begin. This gives us another opportunity to stop the nonsense that has been attempted to go through because it has been proved through the years that the state is an excellent owner of empty holes in the capital area where projects have stopped. I challenge the Matrix to look at this once more with an open mind so that after a few years we won't have to think, " Oh, what did we do? '
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-12-2.u21	My fellow Americans. It's a chicken winter ahead. It's good to remember that story during Nicolae Ceaucescu, Romania, when no matter how cold it was outside, public figures always said there were 10 degrees above freezing. This was because public buildings were not needed. Public figures were totally surmounted to the issue. Of course, people sensed that it was cold, and the government's savings, of course, required trust. Today, the right - to - do magazine Econom is being added to the ranks of politicians, business life, and government in the Western world, serious about the fact that increasing inequities and distrust are being undermined by free open democracies. If we want to stay in these liberal democracies, that's our basic policy to defend and promote, we can't afford to tell people that it's not cold because the average temperature in society is somehow more than 10 degrees. It is said that the gradual change in the word lies, lies, and statistics. As a result, it is dangerous in the coming winter if governments use statistics to paint a picture that a large community knows is not true. He only finds it in his everyday life. People know if they can do more today than last year. People can feel their food bags if they can get more into them, if they need to get more out of the store. People know whether they have to work more this month than last year to make ends meet, so that they can drive home. People know. Yet, there is one film that has begun to be painted, and it is important that we reevaluate it and be honest with it, that there is an increase in salary and money as a result that most people have more dollars and each dollar. But it's only half the movie, half the truth. The vast majority of people know that this picture is that way. Because for a large number of homes, the cost of housing has eaten up more dollars and more money than it does in the home. Despite their power of money, they are at a low level in their home. This is what we have to take into account. When people are cold, they'll need more heat. This will be done in politics as we see around us, if not another way. Guð God for their unions they're getting up and demanding dressbacks in Iceland and asking the government to step in, like, for example. in the premises. The Government Court of Katrín's daughter Jakobsdóttir says, by permission of the president: The government will exert itself for a concerted effort with the labour market partners to ensure that collective agreements will bring real benefits to the employees and society. If there's a real integrity, let's say things the way they are. All right, let's do this faithfully. Then the Pirates will be supporting the government in their honors.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-12-2.u22	A respectable president. Good Icelanders. The current winter will undoubtedly come from collective agreements ending almost all labour contracts on a general labour market at the end of the year, and as treaties in a public labour market, most contracts are free by March next year. Many people say that today's underdog is nothing different from what always happens in leading collective agreements. However, there is evidence that the discussion is now more serious than it has been for a long time. A year before the fall of banks, many were shocked to see how the tops of society were paid in the sky with giant bonuses. Some individuals'annual wages were higher than a worker could dream of a whole career. After the fall of banks, everyone took the burdens to tear down the economy. Many now have the impression that the highest law of society is going to pay and that both middle class and lower income groups will be left behind. Yes, there are children in this country who cannot engage in leisure activities, parties, and so forth because of their parents'low income. When such scenes remain to be found, there is work to be done. Fine Icelanders. I have recently been going over and trying to understand the pay structure in our beautiful country. I have even. has a meeting with the executives of the public companies who have been increasing the pay of directors. In most cases, the increase is supported by the need for the employer's salary to match what happens in private companies. In view of this, it is indepth to consider private increases in large companies and compare with the lowest salary. For example, a higher salary rate for the three lowest paid groups was 8◯9% between 2015 and 2016. These increases are estimated on average below 40,000 dollars. per month. However, this increase is 25 times lower than, e.g. increase in salary for directors N1 between 2015 and 2016, then the president increased by more than 1 billion. K. per month. At the same time as this happened, it was a great company in the majority of the Icelandic pension fund, more than 50%. Today's news is coming to us that this fine company is going to re-create a new bonus system, a petition that is to be arranged for the stockholders' meeting later in this month. I'll tell the pension fund and the rest of the people in this business that this nonsense has got to stop. This proposal must be retracted. Along with these realities, there are signs of modern employment. Travel services have been a big part of the recent discussion. The airlines struggle with problems, and the sound of professional drivers around the country is more than two to three years old. The worst that could happen under these circumstances would be the rise that would be further eaten by inflation. I am convinced that it is possible to avoid that stage, but in order to do so, everyone has to deal with it. As we are, according to a free trade income sheet, with the highest income in the public sector, we have to look at ourselves. At the same time, labor movement and employment drivers must cover abnormal increases in the leaders of largely owned enterprises. Good Icelanders. Although collective agreements do not hear directly under the government, governments have arranged for some action to improve the reach of collective agreements. As the prime minister went over, the government has stressed good cooperation with the labour market at this point. I've been able to cooperate with the labor movement on a variety of subjects, and their ideas on tax reforms, some changes in welfare, more radical approach to housing than we've seen in recent years are all things that go very well with the administration of this government. The stability of the economy and the increase in social equations can go together in the coming collective agreements, but in order for it to become possible for everyone to contribute, not just some. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-12-2.u23	Mr. President. Good citizens of the country. During these beautiful autumn days, we instinctively become proud of our magnificent land and the hard work of our ancestors, who have put us where we are now. My fellow Americans. I'm gonna use this opportunity to skate on a few things that I think are important to me. When we drive through the country, we are concerned about the matter of transport. Everyone agrees that the road system has reached the limit of limit to the limit. It's not acceptable for the government to return wealth to this suit. Over the last few years, traffic on the highways has increased dramatically. Again, the government's game is in the form of a Band-Aid, and already a prospective program has to be made to fit the road system into the modern world. Therefore all men are waiting, wherever they dwell in the land. A new transport program must include solutions to this important class, which is of great importance to so many people. There's no field game here. The entire road system is underneath, not just here in the capital city, but all the roads out of it, and highways throughout the country are badly damaged, too narrow, and many have to double lanes in both directions. There is a need for new constructions and other means of transportation. Mr. President. Here's a job to do. In recent years many police authorities have concluded that the situation of law enforcement in the country is generally unacceptable and unacceptable to its equipment. Police cars have dropped by 20% in the past ten years, and their driving has declined by close to 40% at the same time. A number of cops are far from all the normal security criteria. Thus, for years the police have called for greater human life, especially visible and general law enforcement. This lack of human life is evident in the extreme pressures of law enforcement officers, impaired safety, increased risk of injury, increased decomposition from the union, and not to mention much less initiative on the part of the police. Of course, we need to listen when such authorities speak and respond. The answer is not that theesthetical claims of the police for the lack of human resources. The fact is that the police have not been able to come and have not been here for years. The police need to have adequate work conditions, both for human resources and equipment, so that they can perform their legal function. Mr. President. Here's a job to do. I have decided to apply myself to the development of a report on the interests of our Icelanders from our participation in the Schengen community service, where its benefits and defects will be summarized. Other island nations, to form British and Irish, chose to be out of the way of this partnership. Then there will be a thorough examination of the police's view of cooperation, execution and opportunity for this. Police must be consulted so that they can best care for their jobs on the border. We at The Gang of the People have it. winters led to the production of a report to the Parliament on the benefits and defects of our EU Member States and to the normal development of a together report on Schengen. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-12-2.u24	Mr. President. Good listeners. Icelandic health systems are not perfect, they are not a system that cannot be improved, but according to all international indicators and surveys, it is one of the best things in the world regarding the quality of public service and access. This fact should encourage the Icelandic government to make wise use of the health - related funds and to develop the ministry so that it can meet the ever - increasing and varied demands of modern society. This is a challenge facing Western nations in general. Another major challenge, especially for a small country such as Iceland, is to maintain knowledge and innovation within the medical profession. It has to be said, as it is, that when faced with health authorities'dealings with various independent organisations, which for decades have carried out a variety of tasks within the public health system with dignity and were a invaluable part of this system that all Icelanders rely on. Many people have been told that there is a lack of success in improving health care resources without having a clear view of how it works properly. It is called for technical, varied, and individual service. Under such circumstances, a determined will is needed to avoid focusing on freedom of choice and variety. Headship at the top. Prime Minister, by permission of the president, says: ▪ Health services are prominent in a new budget bill, leaving the language category set out at the top of the list by various surveys. With a clear picture of key challenges, we should be able to conclude on the priorities of the government. Yet, there is another real goal of government traffic that is at best unclear. They say we're promoting the public system. It is true that the public health system in Iceland has been a combination of government business and private business for decades. The government now aims to cut down the government's private business and to overthrow as many people at the same stately convention. They say: There is no money in the private part. The right thing is that it is not the will to make a real comparison at expense. The cost of the public health services funded by independent professionals is up to date. However, the government is an expensive black hole. It is said in the current moral code of December 2017 that a minister should conduct jurisdiction in the handling of government funds. The correct thing is that a health minister breaks his own protocol by exporting Icelandic court lists to Sweden with three times the cost of what the Icelandic clinics can offer. It is said: Private business limits the capacity of governments to policy. It is true that the lack of policy is complete when the financial resources of the same state - driven crew go without goaling, cost analysis, and monitoring. Mr. President. There is a social agreement to protect much of the population's budget for health care. It is a vital part of socialization in order to let a political view control when it comes to determining how that money is new. The Socialist and U.S. senator Bernie Sanders put it well, with the permission of a president: ▪ The aim of actual improvements in health care services must be to use the funds provided as the most practical means to ensure quality services and to ensure overall and equal access to the ministry. During the trip, we'll have a heart full of those words and wish to the highest degree. Healing, and the entire government, in walking here on the right path, for the better of the nation.
