ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u1	Madam President. That was an excellent speech. paritaprevir The three brothers of Ola Bergþór of Ólason, and it does not come to him or to me or anyone else in this hall, and it is surprising that we agree more than we disagree. There are, however, some things that I think are necessary to get a slightly clearer picture of. First of all, when it comes to the Middle Party tax policy, I haven't realized at all or at all. What does it involve? What kind of tax system does the media want to use? What about income taxes for individuals? Then the problem is clear. Senator at least is a spokesman for lowering the insurance bill. So am I. On the other hand, we are meeting the demands to extend e.g. birthworm, raising birth holiday pay. We aim to see that there will be more money on the social security system. That is exactly what is expected of the insurance bill, not all of it, but to finance in part. Hv. A senator also called attention to an increase in carbon costs, and I share his concerns with him. I'm not a spokesman for raising the carbon bill any more than the word is, and in fact, it shouldn't have been raised. But let's leave it in the middle. Hv. A senator claims that driving costs are unfair; they are too high. Then I ask, how are we going to finance the road? The budget of the 2019/2023 estimates that this will take place around the end of the year. 125 billion on transport and communications in investments. Including this year, these are up to 150 billion. Is it not only reasonable and just that those using money, in this case, for transportation? That includes us, these old villains who still drive around in our private cars, we just have to pay for it. [[The president calls.]] It's not what. A senator for that?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u2	A respectable president. I have to thank you. paritaprevir Óli, Björn Kárason for bringing this man into the discussion, because that's exactly what we're doing, just much more. Those who use the road system, that's exactly what I was saying if they did. A senator has listened to me, paid much more to the State than is devoted to building the road system, so more than twice as much. I went over those numbers earlier. The total wealth of state funds in 2016 of vehicles and traffic, if we take the value out of parentheses, was 46 billion. Just before then, I told the council hall that the same year 21 billion were spent building the road system. What are the proportions then? Don't think about what. Óli Björn Kárason's senator, who I think has some numbers on the members of the Senate, to argue that drivers aren't paying for the road system? It's totally crazy. What I'm saying is, we're supposed to use a higher proportion of these resources to build the road system, so that possible tax charges, which I don't think are overlooked that they're going to have to come about if we're going to get something further on top of this great thing, I'll let me call it the present-day taxation of drivers. But just because I'm running out of time to answer about the Middle Party tax policy. We're the only group that voted against all the tax promotions put here in December, all of them, all of them. We want the tax system to be simple, transparent, and primarily encouraging. We want the public to have the motivation to work, to be effective, and to be successful. It's a tax system we want to speak for and work on.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u3	Madam President. Thank you. A senator is eager to know the answer. It was pretty good. Of course, the cost of road witnessing is not just a matter of building a road; there are other costs. A senator looks by. The social cost we all have to compare, I own, for example. We're in a traffic accident. Not to be overlooked. It is not unusual for the cost to be absorbed. But I agree that we should record that those who are using a road mechanic should pay for it, but it is not unusual for them to also add to a common fund for a joint project that may include: linking transport, maintaining this community together. I'm not talking about some super tax thing. But it's simple to do that. A senator has to resist any tax proposals and increase taxes, but then be a member of the category that requires us to increase our expenses for the various kinds of cases. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It is the simplicity of being in a position of government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u4	A respectable president. I can comfort you. A senator who has been in opposition to this divisive government has not been easy, let's say in cooperation. [[Taken out, starting to sound like a socialist.]] Hv. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason gave the perspective I had not dared ask him to come into the discussion, but I feel that I have the most brief time. Of course, if you want to take the cost of making traffic accidents into thisulia and say: Those who drive on the road have to pay for the accidents and pay for the hospital service, you have to transfer it to other factors. Should we start charging athletes that way? How are we going to charge those who get hurt in bicycle accidents? There is also another factor that must enter the equation, of course, that all this traffic is for some reason. Guys are working. You're making progress on a project. They're visiting my grandparents. There's something going on. If you're going to expand the equation and start taking the hospital costs and other community costs into it, then this social income must also be taken into consideration as well as the future as traffic and travel from A to B created. [[The president calls.]] Because it's probably the motive for something. [[The president calls.]] Of course, though, I would much rather go for a lack of motive. A senator for ice cream. [[And get us some ice cream?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u5	Madam President. That's how I want to talk about it right at the start. A senator came up to discuss the forestry and the topic areas. These are 34 topic areas. There's a solid link in the budget, and then we're going to take a hundred issues into the budget. Then we will receive unique groups, such as forestry and land healing, and others into this framework, a topic field of 34. Of course, it's more fun to get the whole discussion at once, but it's something we can pray for before the fall, to get more accurate statements on how these nuances in the media are being spent. [[Up front.]] - The Congress talks, that's the budget. But a budget, and then the council will take this discussion in the budget on the topic panels. It is natural ideologies behind public finance to organize things in this way. I remember that the volume of transport in the country, about the oil tax that was applied some years ago, is 380 million, to equalize transport costs. I remember it was 380 last time I checked. I did not witness earlier today's discussion of this in the middle of nowhere. A senator quoted a financial committee as to the rate of carbon pay. Personally, I've been interested that this was the cost rate, that we get clean and straight up on the table what this means to the region's carbon costs, transport costs, etc. For example, I don't have an average drive or anything else, how it goes. [[The president calls.]] I'd be interested to know in this context, how they are.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u6	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. It wasn't exactly a question, but it was a good subject. I think that's exactly the concern of a matter like the carbon bill coming in here. We can see this in the budget before those approved in December - which, of course, fell from that government - an increase of 100%, that will end in 50%. There seems to be no analysis, where the cost is, what the costs are, and what the effect will be. This is what I call a punt into the discussion. Under the hat of green taxes, because it's very nice, something called a carbon bill that humans consider to be unscheduled to increase 100% between years, then ending in 50%, and another 10% promise. There's very little analysis. I have at least a few minutes. no diagnosis of potential effects was seen. Then come the next step: We must take counter measures so that this cost does not go into the prices. You just shouldn't hang up such bullshit taxes, let alone raise them by 50%. That would be much simpler. But I agree with everything that was presented in the language of the day. A senator as to the need for this information. The sooner, the better.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u7	Madam President. My little heart rejoices. A senator agrees with me on my diagnosis. I think it would be very interesting to get it straight what these things mean. Generally, I don't feel that we do enough of it when we lay down burdensome expenses and taxes, to examine exactly how it affects people in the country, or certain communities. There are a wide variety of ways in which individual taxes fall. I'm absolutely aware that this is an example that would be very interesting to examine in some cultures and in various ways. With regard to transport investments, these are significant increases compared to what we have recently seen. That's 124 of you. Millions of people in this financial program. There is a big change from what we have seen. These are the investments that go in the way, ports, airports, and telecommunications. [[The president calls.]] I don't want to belittle it, but, of course, I always want more on transportation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u8	A respectable president. I reiterate my pleasure with the senator's position in terms of tax matters, he would fit very well into the Party of the Middle Ages compared to the position that has been committed to him tonight, he's welcome to coffee at any time. Of course, this figure, 125 billion over the high schedule period, but if we put it in context, this cumulative figure is over a five - year period 50% of one - year health expenses in 2020, basically 50%. Of course, it's a lot of money, but it's so far from getting us to where we want to go as far as the road system is concerned, or rather, in the place where we have to go. That applies to both the roads, the harbors, and especially the airports, and I know why. A senator has their best interests at heart. Although the number is high when it is put together over a five - year period, unfortunately it will not be very high in the real world.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u9	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir And Bergþór son of Olei's Ólason for an excellent speech. He introduced a number of factors and appropriate for the head of the environment and transport committee to review transport. That's right, as a matter of course. One senator says that this addition - 5.5 billion to the next three years, 16.5 billion - which is going on transportation is not enough for what has been passed for a long time. You're absolutely right. Hv. A senator has answered these questions in opposition to others. Senators well and point out this need, this cumulative need. I want to ask you something about ideas. A senator for the funding of this cumulative need, which is considerable. Hv. A senator wanted to mean that the Ministers and the Supreme Ministers. A secretary of transportation would not have wanted to face this, but I think the last two of them would have been. Transport ministers have discussed looking for ways to give in these matters. I'd like to hear a thought. A senator's reaction to the solution. We've had Subviouss here to buy by electric cars and non-fiction fuel users. Some people have to pay to use the roads. I agree with that. The head of the Economic and Business Committee that those using the roads must simply pay for it. It is obvious that we need an overall review of how we finance it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u10	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson for this. It was a fine addition, it was a point I simply forgot in my counterweight response to what happened. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kámsson. Is there any sense that those who drive on an electrical vehicle, get a down payment and then connect the car to the home puncture don't pay for the use of the road but in a very small way? Of course it isn't. And this is part of the overall review we have to make. We need to get out of this position. The proportion of cars that run for electricity, or green energy sources as they are called, is increasing, but the percentages are still overexhausted on the fact that the state's income from vehicles and traffic are more than 100% higher than the amount spent in building and maintenance of the road system. During 2016, 46 billion came in, while 21 billion were spent for building up. It's the numbers they're available if we take the value out of the picture. I think we need to figure out a way to pick up a normal mix of charges, a reasonable amount of money, where equal justice is being taken, and that everyone is putting themselves in the bag. But that cannot be a mere addition to today's high costs. Of course, it would be crazy if charges came as a clean addition to those figures, 46 billion in 2016. Only then would it be expensive to use the road system. That's where I don't want to go. But I would like to see my income come in with some means of payment, which allows us to invest much faster than the current budget can expect. [[The president calls.]] But at the same time, I want men to see anything painful about our country's drivers and those who need to use the road system.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u11	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Hv. A senator refers to a reserve, the 4 billion that come out of a general reserve. According to Article 24. a law on public finances requires that a minister give strong reasons to take money from a reserve and support the conditions that it is inevitable, unpredictable, and temporary. The financial committee should be informed of this, but more is not said in this legal paper. Not that we walk through that fund lightly, on the contrary. A financial committee was arranged for a minister to meet him. He gave a good reason. We went further, got a travel minister to our home, and then sent a request to the State Research to check it out. [[The president calls.]] I think we need to look at this frame of law for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u12	A respectable president. I am really happy to hear that the chairman of a legal committee agrees with me in terms of being careful about this fund that was prepared by a formula with a new law on public funds. I have no doubt that this matter should have been resolved in this way, and it seems to me that the members of the committee in general agree, those to whom I have spoken without me to put words in the mouth of the members of the council. If this makes one sees the state of the road system more readily, then it may be worth the effort to reach the reserve for emergency supplies. Other than that, I thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u13	Borist has two letters from the minister of foreign affairs asking for every request to give written answers to inquiries on the deck. 237, for the import of raw and unbound foods, from Bjarni Jónsson's son, and for the threshing floor. 384, for the ministers and for the driver, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u14	To answer, Economic and Economic Ministers, Education and Culture Ministers, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Environmental and Resource Ministers and Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u15	Mr. President. Often, unfortunately, disabled people are unable to share in the community as much as others, and they often suffer great discrimination. The United Nations covenant for disabled people's rights clearly stipulates the rights of these people for education. A multicultural institution is a seminary and gives learning advice for this group and is to be assured by an agreement with the educational system that he can pursue an ongoing education as much as any other member of the community. Today, the State's contribution to the Agency has not increased since 2009, which means the cutdown of an entire 30% and now sees the need to reduce their services significantly, shorten courses and reduce the number of educational programs offered by the disabled. Nothing else has been replaced. While students in general look forward to and welcome their student's test of anxiety, these individuals will not even graduate where nothing else is taking place. Mr. President. Human rights are important. They must be shown, in effect, not just on holidays. So I'd like to ask a minister if it's normal for him to have, as people might talk about now, not to enjoy it as much as they do for others. Whether the United Nations Convention is to be fulfilled on the rights of disabled people, on the basis of education, or on other possibilities. Does not a minister for the good of society think that this group can train as well as other young people in this country? Will a minister use himself to ensure that sufficient funds flow to this and other educational institutions in order to continue in this vital and upbuilding ministry?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u16	A respectable president. Thank you so much for this inquiry. Today, contributions to the United States have been changing over the years, and there is a considerable cutoff between 2009 and 2013/2014, but during the past six years an increase of 15.4%. We've been increasing this for sure. A number of people play a very important role in counseling how to pursue education for disabled persons. That is certainly the policy of the government. The person standing here was working to accept the commitment of Iceland that involves disabled people, the United Nations Convention, so I really like it. We have increased funding, as the senator should know, in the last six years by 15.4% and will continue to do well in the seminary.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u17	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. Ministers for excellent answers and positive attitudes. They're long enough, but in reality we need to add funding to this sector. If, for example, Iceland's art school or other people would want to start studying or breaking them, there's nowhere to apply for money. All students follow funding, but students with development impairment, are exposed to parentheses. In the University of Iceland, the Diposa mine is fighting for its existence every two years. The Dipla mine at the School of Arts did not get money to continue a wonderful study that met talented individuals. Young people with developmental inhibition have tragic opportunities, despite their desire to continue learning as other young people do. They do not have the same opportunity to enjoy their abilities or develop them and to create a more productive life and a future. That, of course, is to be a part of each one of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u18	A respectable president. Everyone in Iceland should have the same opportunity for education and, of course, disabled people as well. That's why there's a running education policy in Iceland called education for everyone. It is simply legal that opportunities should be the same as their high school access. That's what we do. It is very important that we, who are elected to Congress, speak of the responsibility of this group and not give the message to society that the access of disabled people is something other than other people. Indeed, everyone should have the same opportunities that we are working on by raising money on the lawsuits and educations of disabled people. I would also like to inform you that we are working to improve the level of study for those who are deaf and who are working on many very good things in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u19	Mr. President. In the past, I have mentioned in this hearing that the surveillance role of the Generals has been ignored when it comes to the government's conduct in the affairs of Arion Bank. It's easier for journalists to get information on the subject than for the General. It was in the magazines that we learned that the government funds have decided to temporarily withdraw the premium at the posts of Copenhagen on the market registration of the bank. I kept asking about it at the council, but I didn't get any answers. It is of great interest that the government decided to temporarily drop from the premium if the letters are sold to a set gang, 0.8 of its own money. This means that whoever the buyers are, they can obtain something cheap, which would otherwise be spent with the government's premium. So the report points out that Congress will guarantee payment to 0.8. It's a classic play from the Council of Copenhagen, and it indicates that the state will not lose anything. But that is not true. The difference lies in whether the state has a premium if it is up to 0.8 and thus it can enter the trade if the state considers Arion's letters to be more valuable and that it is more important that it be owned by the state, or that the State receives payment to 0.8 from the Council of Buy. Of course, there is a difference. So the question is this to the highest. Minister: Now that these letters are being sold under 0.8, what does the state fund get? Will the government get payment for the difference? What will the State get for giving up the court?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u20	A respectable president. It was a kind of strange speech. I'm going to begin by saying that it's not to the Minister or the government to blame if the Allied has not been in charge of the role of surveillance, as it were. A senator started his talk. All the information on this case has been made, and it is probably a matter of giving it to the council, and actually building on contracts made at the time. The government hasn't fallen from the premium. He's still there. He lives, but he has, completely in accordance with the contract as it is written, been adjusted to pay for an invitation. At the beginning of the contract, it was assumed that if a person were to seek market prices for the stocks in Arion, this right should be adapted to that position. It has been done according to a process that is completely beneficial and of course useful and has actually been introduced here at the council. Here we go. A senator who says, "What does the state lose on this? " Hv. Not many weeks ago, a senator concluded after reading a magazine article that the bank was worth far more than 0.8. An tender statement is now issued on the basis of a planned registration in two countries. According to the publication, the sellers of these letters do not assume to receive 0.8. They assume that the bid will begin with prices in the range of 0.6How0.7. Well, then it seems like it's a reason. A senator believes that this is a bargain and is likely to want to defend them. I ask: How many billion people are to be protected from tax money to buy the stock at or below and what will be the cause. A senator fixing that stock? For what purpose should the State begin to use premarital or postmortal rights? It would have been bad enough to have decided to use premarital rights on 0.8 if the letters were then on the market for sale for 0.6 or 0.7. [[The president calls.]] The plans to buy these letters are completely incomprehensible to me when the state is the largest financial institution in Europe, when the proportion of land production is taken into consideration. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There's no payment for any distinction in this room.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u21	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. He's obviously worried that I'll read a newspaper article, but I have to read a newspaper article in order to get information about this case because there's no answer. I have mentioned this several times from this talk chair, the highest. Minister. Therefore, there is something else that you have to do. There is, of course, great concern that this will lead to the surveillance of the Generals. A minister refers to the premium. It is of great interest that if sold below 0.8, the government will not receive anything from the Council of Copenhagen, it has been identified, there has now been an informed minister, no payment for the discrimination, and no payment for the surrendering of the court. The permissive government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, against the Arion's hedge fund, has no partner. All claims of the hedge fund have been accepted. Selling the empire's stocks on subsidiary approved without murmuring. The bank tax on the hedge fund was reduced to no murmuring. [[The president calls.]] Valuable premiums canceled without complaint. All for nothing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u22	A respectable president. I'm going to encourage the senator to keep asking questions and to continue reading because he clearly does not know anything about these matters. He will appear on the platform and say: "The Kingdom will not get anything. The government's not getting anything at the sale. What is it? The senator, for instance, to refer to him? [[Up front.]] What are you pointing at? Senator? The situation is this: According to contracts that are complex, and there are multiple forms of communication in force. The amount of money the government receives does not depend on the price of sale in Arion. It's a underlying bond, isn't it? And, of course, this will not be evident until all the items of Correspondence have been sold in Arion's bank on how this will come out of the business agreements. But the stock exchange goes all into the bond, so, yes, the state gets paid on the bond. There is no compromise, negotiations are being made, and all that is left in this discussion is the Post Party's claim that buying another bank is good business for the Icelandic state. Hv. A senator sitting here right now, completely exposed, after giving long talks that 0.8 is too low. But now that the bank is introduced in two markets, it will be found that the price is probably lower. that when the state sold its parts earlier this year, it was a good business for the State, quite contrary to the media language.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u23	A respectable president. The government covenant of the present government states, by permission of the president: It will be a city line short in cooperation with the local community in the capital area. May 26th. said the highest. Secretary of finance during the election years that the city line was, by permission of the President, a nominally undefined phenomenon to the U.S.A. Earlier, it had the highest. In a chamber, the secretary of finance said that despite the obligation of the government's cooperative agreement to support a city line in cooperation with the local community in the capital area, the conversation, with the permission of presidents, would be no longer available in the relations of these parties, but it was requested by the local community in the capital area to have a conversation about these matters with the state, in effect. Now, the secretary of finance is the chairman of one of the three categories that make up the present government. So he worked to negotiate a government contract, which is the basic declaration of every government and then signed it on behalf of his party. So the Minister's comments are quite surprising to me. I'd like to direct that inquiry to the minister as to what he thought to be involved in supporting the city line, as is said in the Constitution. In view of what is stated in the proposed government contract and the highest. Ministers are not planning to provide financial support for the project. If he does not intend to give financial support to the project, what did the support discussed in the government covenant involve?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u24	A respectable president. In fact, I've twice been involved in governments who have said that this is probably a city line that has been called upon by the rural communities in the capital area. This includes paying for better public transport in the capital area, and we want that conversation to match the expectations of the rural communities in the capital area. On the other hand, when you sit down with your rural society in the capital area, you get a very different picture of who you are talking to. If you like. You'd slide into the town of Garða and talk to the local councilman, and you won't be very interested in putting a dollar from the local fund to make the project happen. If you go into Hafnarfjörður, you feel that it is a completely different priority than in the interest of a city line. First, we need to complete the mismatch road meet at the Smokey Way. First, we need to double the Sveinjanes Way south of Cheflavík. And it is not until these matters are addressed that Hafnarfjörður tells us today that they want to put the city in first place. On the other hand, if you come to Reykjavík and talk to the mayor of Reykjavík, you will hear that there is a great deal of it on his part, not from all categories in the city. You will hear for the first time talking about taxing the city for the project. It's not the same when you go to other rural areas in the capital area. What can you say other than that this conversation is an enormous amount of communication? Of course, this conversation must take place with a travel minister who has declared that he wants to look at the whole matter. What I hope will be the result of the results of both of these major transport efforts or the problems we face here in the capital area at the same time paid for better public transportation. I think that there are too many differences between groups of transnational differences that it is wise to be more supportive of public transportation. It is not, but when people come forward with ideas that by the end of the next year 35 billion will come from a government fund without a complete picture of how that conversation should take place or what will become of other important means of transportation and transportation in the capital area, people are out of place. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm talking about. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u25	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of the budget for the answers. However, I would like to ask what he sees as a desirable continuation of the conversation between state and rural society, as he entered, the development of transportation within the capital area. How does he see it? The next time it's gonna be clear what more things are going to be up to the mayor's production. The number of people involved in today's negotiations has all claimed to be in support of the city line project. Thus, the development of the city line can be expected to continue in view of what is stated in the government covenant. In what way does the highest number seem. The secretary of finance that the coming of the State could be when the conversation has been explained a little further than it does today?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u26	A respectable president. Of course, this element is to agree with the rural areas in the capital area on priorities. On our part, there has been a lack of overall vision of all the projects, from the Sunday track to the Sleazi Way, Southland Road. Everything must be included in the film when there is a need for transportation in the capital area. As I said in my first speech, improved public transportation is also needed. There are many reasons for doing so, but somehow the conversation has been about city lines and nothing else and little about other matters. I also need to mention that when rural communities come to the state with ideas far beyond the necessary implementation of the Vega assessment to solve specific tasks, the local society has to pay the difference. There's been aground on a number of projects, e.g. has been a major disagreement between the road generation and the city's city's city's emphasis on the road to the seawaters on this subject. There is a disagreement about who should take the billions of cost that would result from the failure of Reykjavíkurburg to take the Sun path to the destination of the Roadway.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u27	A respectable president. Pension insurance, household remuneration were at the start of standard pay in 1988 without tax, and there was the rest of the person's pay to other incomes, e.g. Pension funds. Step - by - step personal discount is a good way to let a person's discount be removed when pension workers and hired persons have covered e.g. 900Yous. K. which is on the higher tax level. We have an acquiesce limit of 303/40% of the income of a pensioner but only 6% of the council's earnings, 3% of the Ministers. Thus, taxation limits are very important for pension workers, while high - paying people are of little or no importance. Remember, the disability pension was tax free at the start of standard payment in 1988, and there was the rest of the person's discount in pension funds and also the minimum tax pay at that time. So I ask a minister if he doesn't think it's normal for us to get personal discounts to get the other person who needs him, the underpayers who has 300 yous. 0, 220 points. Payed the taxes, that they get this person's discount. We're supposed to make sure that people can live here with dignity. We have sick people, we have older citizens who don't have food, drugs, and other things, but at the same time we're eating a good salary and don't bother to make sure that people who don't have a knife or a spoon aren't the tax. We have to put things into practice so that we stop paying money to poor people, much less poor, because they're genocides.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u28	A respectable president. I think if we were to compare the pensioner at the beginning of the system as a function. A senator turned aside, asking us: " Was it better then or today, despite the fact that a section of income paid for tax pay? I think the conclusion would be very obvious. We have managed to increase the amount of pension money, whether it is a pension or a pension, in recent years, and indeed it is, and it should not be masked to anyone, that if we consider the last five years and then again the financial plan for the council is setting priorities in regard to higher payments. Hv. A senator may be less likely to ask about this and more about how we use the tax system to the lowest wage. In recent years, much has been done in the discussion that the lower income tenants have been exposed to a higher tax burden. The main reason is that the income of these earners has been greatly increasing. Then it is only natural to ask: Should we put more taxes on the intermediate and professional payers in order to reduce taxes on less income? My answer to that question is first: We already have a system, like what? The senator turned aside, which takes a much lower tax percentage of less money than the upper income. Those with the highest income pay most of the dollars, and the highest rate, those with the lowest income pay most of the money and the lowest rate. I want to continue to reduce the tax burden. I don't think there's a need to raise taxes on certain groups in order to lower them by others, but we should simply use the economic growth we're doing today to reduce taxes in general. [[The president calls.]] We are assuming that there is room for this in the budget, and we have announced action in the autumn months.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u29	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The secretary of finance for the answers but would like to help him see that in 1993 I entered that system. In 1993, I was just fine. But after 24 years in the system, I shit it. I was out of paying no taxes on paying $50,000. a month taxation. All the good things went down, all these increases. The tax ratio is now to be reduced by 1%. That's 14 billion. Why don't we put it in a person's discount so that we all get even? Not that we get five to six times more out of it than those at the lowest wage and minimum. Is that not fair? We must realize that we are talking about people who do not have a knife or spoon. I know about people who don't have drugs. Not going to the dentist, not to see a doctor. That's what we're talking about. They have a requirement, the right to see to it that they can live with dignity.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u30	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. A senator, there are groups that are too poor for our society. For example, the priority for improving the quality of those who trust in the social security system has been focused on setting priorities. Then I'm going to let me point out that if we don't cope with an increase of disability, which has been up to 3.5% per year now for all too long, and higher, our ability to care for those who are truly in need is reduced. It simply doesn't work that there are decades where the growth in disability is far beyond demographic development in the country. That's one part of the problem. We need to note that in addition to increasing our economic strength to support those inside the system, we are not losing control of the global development of the system. There is a question about the personal discount versus a decline in income tax. We've simply announced that we've taken from a minimum of 1% to a lower level reduction but at the same time we're going to a conversation about the development of personality discounts and harmonizing with the improving systems. [[The president calls.]] Thus, these matters will be on the agenda. A senator is asking.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u31	A respectable president. We now have a bill for the implementation of the European Commission Regulation on Personal Protection. It is quite clear that this is an enormously large case involving a major change in Icelandic society, and we realize that we have only a limited amount of time to adapt it to our environment in which we are obliged to introduce the Regulation as such. However, this is evident in the comments we have received and the coverage that this issue has received in the short period of time since its discovery, however, that there are still many matters of opinion. It has been suggested, e.g. on the part of the industry, that much more burdensome measures are being taken, more formal, than the Regulation itself requires. During the short term the council has to resolve the matter, it is very difficult to distinguish between what the actual content of the Regulation is and what the Ministry itself is going beyond what may be necessary. Of course, it is clear in all context that the Council, according to the scope of the bill, has been unusually short of time to observe it and the need for action. That's why I'd like to ask the highest question. Minister, because in itself there is no political issue, there is a parapolitic solidarity that I think at the council about the importance of implementing the Regulation and the importance of having Iceland participate in this right from the start, whether it is possible to look more closely at the method that our neighboring state, e.g. in the North countries, it seems merely to enforce the Regulation itself while delaying the case otherwise, possibly until autumn or longer. Then the council is given more time to work with the challenges they expect. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u32	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Still, there may be some misunderstanding. A member of the Parliament regarding the implementation of the Regulation in the European national rights. This is not to say that the countries are letting go of just taking up their national regulations just as they are, but have had to, as such. Norway, however, in a way to publish the Regulation as law texts, to make as much changes as possible in various laws, using a very complex alliance. When the bandworm is placed in Norway, it is found that it has a similar route to that of the Norwegians in its implementation of various factors. I take as an example the principles of personal protection of information about dead men. I'll take it as an example because there's a warrant for various routes. Denmark and Norway have spent ten and five years there, so we go for five years. It seems to me that when you begin to look at the Norwegian corrosion that it is an untimely protection of the human identity of the dead, so I'll take it as an example. I know why. A senator is most interested in the finesse of this case. It is clear that the Regulation itself obliges high government guilty and cannot be avoided. The same amount has to be determined by all countries. On the other hand, there is also a authority for the State to have regulations for day - to - day living. That's what we've been doing in the bill that I've made, end of it, we've been doing business in the law for 18 years and yet they've been put up with something quite a student, possibly never, I could imagine. The second factor is the best option for preventing these substances. As far as I'm concerned, it's wise to keep this provision, so it's going to be the same thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u33	A respectable president. It may be, like the highest. A minister of justice, however, points out, that there are some comparable methods at least for a few of our neighbors, but we are facing a considerable other situation. The Norwegian Parliament discussed this matter from the center of this year. I think it came into the Norwegian Parliament in March. I think we're at the highest. A minister of justice does not have to argue that the time the council has to take care of the matter is very short. I see no reason to be in some particular debate about it in itself, but perhaps primarily to look for ways to simplify the matter in the first round, so that this aspect can be handled carefully and then take other prognostications for further consideration and careful treatment of the council at the winter session.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u34	A respectable president. I don't argue with what. A member of Parliament or a council all over the world that this case is very short of payment at the council. I would have liked it so much that it would be taken for a great deal sooner and even for the council to spend the whole winter talking about personal protection and the matters of opinion that will definitely follow. In my story on both matters, I described that I saw in my mind that the personal protection program itself, GDPR as it has been called on by the European Union, will be changed in the next few years. I think that's all there is to it. It's a lot of ideas. Some of the comments received by the Parliamentary Committee on the matter are subject to interpretation of some of the regulations of the Regulation, wording, and other matters. In my opinion it is not wise to accept these changes, i.e. taking text as suggested from the text of the bill itself, because it is the Regulation itself. We don't have time to disappear. However, this is an outstanding feature of the provision of space. I think it's on page 8. 36 and still on the bill. It contains a very clear explanation of the arrangements we have to set aside and to argue in the manner in which we shift from the Regulation itself. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u35	Mr. President. I thank you for the opportunity to administer a special conversation about the insurance policy. At the same time, I thank the secretary of finance and economics for having an answer. The Government's policy declaration says that it will take decisive steps in the terms of decommissionment of insurance on loans, while at the same time they will be attacked on counterweight measures to protect young people's potential and take less money to obtain housing. The core of the discussion is some questions that I would like to answer to a minister and let me expect them to be as thorough as possible. First of all. What plans does the government have for taking progressive steps to cut off bail on loans offered in the aforementioned declaration of policy, and have any steps already been taken? If not, when does a minister plan to take the first step, and what will that include? Second of all. A borrower takes risks because of changes in prices by guaranteeing pay in accordance with them to the lender, the stronger person in the contract, and with little or no chance of defending himself from this risk. To what counterweight measures will the government resort in order to balance this difference? Third, please. A lot of uncertainty, so strongly, is there a future payment on money-secured loans because of uncertainty about economic progress and GDP. To what counterweight measures will the government take to reduce uncertainty and to trust financial foundations in this regard? Fourth off. Lecture is intended to improve the financial stress of the loan subsidies or to increase such taxes to as much as this leads to an increase in index. A recent example is a 50% rise in carbon payment in order to pursue climate goals that a grossly estimate puts up to 500 million. K. The burden of homes and the demand for financial institutions is similar without any work. Credit agencies have all the power behind the justice system to collect the requirements set up because the government is fulfilling climate goals. Homes have no defenses. What counterweight measures will the government take so that a placid loan deal is equal when it comes to affecting indirect taxes on commitment and their rights? Number five. For various reasons, although global prices in the country improved, a rise in the index has resulted in a marked rise in the index. The rise in housing is partly rooted in Reykjavík's policy, which is characterised by lack of property and the related rise in real estate and rent prices. What counterweight measures will the government take to protect borrowers from such burdensome influences that they have few or no defenses? A financial secretary has recently received an informed answer to a question written in the past five years by the secretary of the budget 15 billion due to a general increase in prices but as a result of the same loans on the index complex housing team, 118 billion dollars have been studied. He alone lays 118 billion dollars. On top of the homes where they would have had to take on 15 billion because of their general prices. Do men see the monster? Now, in view of the fact that a greater proportion of the city's citizens are receiving four more years to maintain a map of land and a sense of expertise, the mortgage will continue to rise for that reason. I called in kitchen calendars earlier this week that the government will see to it that the mortgage is immediately removed from the index. It would be an emergency to protect homes from loss of housing, such as too many families know by means of the expected rot and insecurity of children. Does a minister agree that the development of the housing team is critical of the general high prices in the country, allow immediate removal of the housing team from the index, with the aim of protecting the homes from the currently visible material uptake?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u36	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you for a discussion that's very important for a general financial discussion in Iceland. First, what kind of government plan is asked? It has to be said that in the first few months of the government, such as the lack of a step in decommissioning insurance on mortgages, the work is still under way according to the declaration of the loans in this country. Recently, the General Assembly agreed to a protocol that suggests that a team of experts evaluate the benefits and weaknesses of aiming into the insurance insurance of the index price without housing, or that a borrower has a choice to determine the indicators for the basic insurance of such commitments. At present, your home has a choice between insurance and cheating loans, as well as how they can mix these loans in their respective rates. The value of your insurance may be reduced by increasing your household's choice, enabling them to bind their loans to other indexes. The loans limited to e.g. for the index price of consumers without housing or a uniform index price, in some sense, would be semi-established. As a result of the risks taken by borrowers because of the price change, the counterweight action taken. So it is to say that, first of all, I think it is very important to bear in mind that the borrower has a choice. We should work toward further selection, a choice of securities, or inaccessible loans, but homes seem to choose an increasing number of unscrupulous financing. Thus, in 2017, almost half of the new apartment loans were disloyal, and their share of total residence loans grew to homes. However, credit affords the option that their credit load is lower than that of a loan that is unscrupulous, and such arrangements are acceptable for many, especially for young people. The number of loans and competitions between credit lenders has increased over the past few years, including After the growth of pension funds in favor of real estate loans. Then, on April 1, 2017, there was a law on home loans to consumers where payment fees were changed. The change contributes to the growth of loans on fixed interest rates, especially security loans and increased mobility and competition for real estate markets. This allows them to reimburse their loans, move between creditors if there is a better option elsewhere, and exchange insured loans for infidelity at a lower cost. The reimbursement of the plunger charge was a large step in this regard. Then there is the question of uncertainty about future payments from the value of loans, what you can do about it. To answer, it is true that there is certain uncertainty about the future payment of the mortgages because of uncertainty about economic progress, prices, but this is not only about the prices of the mortgage but also about mortgages in general. As a result of unexpected financial development, the financial burden of unsecured loans is more likely to be affected. In general, credit rates are higher, and in case of trauma, the changes to payment loads can be more rapid. In turn, the change in prices directly affects the financial burden of loans more secure than it does over loan time, especially in credit loans. One of the main ways that governments can influence the future pay on the loans of their homes is to influence economic progress and GDP, taking the lead in promoting economic stability. Time and again, though we take too much time on insurance insurance, we should have taken more time simply to discuss interest in this country. A report published yesterday on the framework of money policy was an important part of a discussion about stability and growth in Iceland for the future. I'd like to say about the effects of various indirect taxes, such as those mentioned here by carbon bills, what countermarital action should be used. Then I have to keep it up that the government has just canceled the fees and credit taxes from electrical vehicles in order to open to that possibility. It has also affected the price reduction rate, and there has been a large increase in the number of options on the streets, as we can see. I'm going to step in on other things that I haven't been able to touch in my first speech. Thank you for your important discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u37	Mr. President. Almost ten years ago, the Icelandic home lost a lot of money, lost its savings, disappeared 90% of the stock market, and our loans went out of control, including. Because of your insurance policy. The best way to fight too high is to maintain a healthy, stable economy. That stability has not been present. First of all, the last three governments of the Independence Party have exploded. Such political instability on the part of the Independence Party creates economic instability. Second, the currency has the basic value of hair growth and insurance insurance. That fact just cannot be avoided. Of course it has something to do with it. Those who oppose the insurance policy must take up the business discussion about the currency. Clearly, the dollar is and has been a bad companion all these years. Now we see that the real problem has never been as strong as the Icelandic Crown's real experience has been that of today's world of Western currency for the past 15 years. I wondered, " Must it not be hard enough to do business in Iceland, although it's not the fact that you have to be a currency expert on top of it? ' We're supposed to stop using ganglocks as a response to the economic situation, so it's the public who always pays the bill. The public is paying for it when it comes to ganging. So the solution is in a new currency. In this regard, only one option is, in the opinion of the vast majority of experts, and it is the euro involved in the European Union, which is the way 19 European nations have chosen to go. As long as we have the crown, we will live in the insurance policy and often grow higher than any other country. It's just that simple. Mr. President. Talking about a crown without insurance is like talking about a hot dog without a soda. These two things cannot be separated even if they are not obligatory to one another.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u38	A respectable president. When insurance insurance, as we know it, was settled here in 1979, inflation was extremely difficult to raise loans. The house - to - house system was affected, and the property of pensions was dwindling fast steps. I would like to remind you of this in order to keep the decision that the decision to put the insurance on would include the response to extreme inflation and financial instability. Thus, insurance was the result, not the cause. It is a key factor when we discuss it when we recall the causal relationship and only because the price of loans has been so long in the past and that the financial system in the marrow is controlled and direct to inflation and exchanges have been the most marked Icelandic economy. Of course, maintaining insurance is not a competitive device in itself. It is only a means of dealing with certain economic problems and would be unnecessary if it did not exist and called out for release. The price insurance provides a set basis for both parties to a loan agreement, in which the value of the loans is fixed. The markets are important for both stakeholders, which contribute to the stability of the financial system. Hence, we must not forget when criticism is directed toward the insurance policy as a prerequisite for loan agreements. The government has plans to cancel insurance, at least to the extent it has been applied here. The good news is that then the government will also have plans to destroy the reasons that resulted in the introduction of insurance. We should not forget that for a time, borrowers have been offered the option of choosing between insurance and cheating loans, which have higher interest. Many people choose the insurance policy and lower interest rates, and they are well understandable with regard to the high interest level here, which is important in reducing to the corrosive levels. In this regard, I'd like to point out why. In his final question, the phrase "gain of the index " points to an increase in housing. He blames local policy on this, but ignores the influence of the high interest. That's where I think it is. An apocalyptic has become somewhat speculative. I secondly insist that insurance is primarily the result, not the cause, and will be made fastest and sure by building stability with low inflation and balance in demand for loans. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It is the primary work to be done and truly satisfying that the government has put it on its list of tasks in a government contract. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u39	Mr. President. Valuable insurance is what we all know about man's work. It was determined, as we have seen in this hall, in 1979 with the sentence of the so - called Olava. In fact, it had been at the people since 1955, part of which had a law on housing government, where the 1/4 part of each loan was insured. The evidence for insurance was excessive inflation, failure to lend loans, and incentive to save. In addition, there was a global inflation. Valuable insurance was given to deal with extreme economic negative conditions. Price insurance in the 1980's was about 60%. Bank accounts and loans were shattered, and banks were understandably reluctant to borrow. This added to the world situation, such as high oil prices. Today, we live in a very different situation. Inflation is low, stable, and high oil prices are low. Nevertheless, insurance still works. In historical and economic comparisons, there is no need for insurance in Iceland today. Political groups have regularly before elections either promised to reduce or eliminate the value of insurance. We all know how things have worked out, and nothing will happen, and it is especially the determination of politicians to teach. We could, for example. Proceed immediately to the 1955 law's example, and leave the insurance only partially valid, and then it would be decommissioned in stages. We could introduce a specific adaptation process, first so that insurance would apply to 3/4 of each loan, then half, then 1/4 of each loan, and finally completely disappear. I heard a minister opening up a chance in an earlier talk that he might be in part in debt, and that's a good thing to me. It's all possible and we can begin right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u40	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Ólafur son of Ísleifsson, this discussion, and so on. The secretary of the budget for his input into the discussion. First, I'd like to say that insurance isn't a good way to settle interest rates. Achieving the cost of nonstatutory contracts is a way of seeing the cost of revenues, but the low income is forced to look for payment. Then nothing can go far into the future. It is important to take the discussion on this matter, which particularly concerns the homes and their interests, to many other aspects, and to focus on the overall context of the items. This has to do with the country's money policy, how money borrowed will grow, which is truly insurance. This makes no difference as to which criteria are used. Cross-country scale: loan agreements. I'm going to take part in a second speech, but yesterday a work group report on the future money policy development in Iceland was published on a reassessment of the policy framework. That's when insurance is important to financial companies, creditors. They are listed as working on a White Paper on a vision of the future financial system to be submitted to the General Assembly for discussion. This is all an important input into the discussion and the broad impacts of insurance. I view this as an important preparatory work in the steps proposed by the government and in the Treaty before making policy decisions, but economic stability and decision making are of great importance, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u41	Mr. President. There have been a number of conflicting issues in the discussion, which are still good. This is a matter that we should discuss much more often, anyway, until the solution is resolved. It is proper to consider only that the tragedy of the common people, and perhaps some creditors, when mutations are borrowed because of a massive inflation, is not compared with the tragedy that already happens to everyone who has such a loan. Today, prices are down to around the end of the year. 550 billion bucks. All of it. If we aim at 2.5% of the Penitentiary Bank, which is rather low in historical context, we are talking about 14 billion dollars. each year - pff - which will be made in the balance of the bank accounts, and the same debt exists in the debt column of creditors. When inflation is higher, the difference increases. One factor is that 85% of new loans are inflatable. This is in part because banks are more likely to direct people on the valuable loans. While there are practical choices, it is better to have a low interest level and not an arrangement that is known virtually nowhere else in the world than to maintain the present state of life. There is also the mortgage. This has taken place in the fivefold increase of the property in Reykjavík in recent years under the greater part, and it has not yet fully provided for housing, but it is beginning to be seen in the contribution of the cost of housing in terms of inflation, when it actually demutes this factor. Of course, we still need to cut off the mortgage now that we can do so, even though this may cause minor harm to consumers, because we know that once the joint gets bigger, it will have quite a greater negative effect than it now does. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u42	A respectable president. It's always a very interesting discussion. Thank you. A verbal vendetta for her. However, I always feel that the basic problem is: Talk about high interest in Iceland. Valuable insurance is one image of hair growth. Valuable insurance has been our tool to cope with high interest levels in the country, but it is far too little to speak of why we live in such high interest levels. This discussion is completely killed by the criticism of the insurance policy itself. I'm not a fan of insurance. I think it's an imprudent, inexplicable arrangement, but I can see why we've used it like a crutch in recent years, simply because of the stability of the crown and an enormously high level of interest. I particularly welcome the release of a new report on our options for money management. If I could make one suggestion at a council assembly, I think Congress members should be tested from that book in the fall. I think it would be very helpful for all of us to read the sad history of our money management over the decades, in fact, for the entire period of sovereignty. It points to the most important things we should take to heart. The most important indication is that if we do not want to play in harmony with the rules of the arrangement, it doesn't matter what arrangements we have in this country. In this regard, what is particularly important is that politics take a look at its own interests and realize that the financial matters, e.g. Very large for any money government. Here, I suppose we're going to discuss a national financial programme that will violate exactly the same rules of play. Still, we have not learned to apply the guidelines we have set for ourselves. [[The president calls.]] That is the basis for our problems. Then we can deal with the discussion about the crown and whether it is the ideal goal for a future currency or not. But it does not matter which choice we choose in these matters if we ourselves do not choose to play by them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u43	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank my fellow class member, Dr. Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Isenus, for this very urgent discussion. Price insurance has a 40-year-old history here. It was placed in a special setting in the country. But a few years after the law on insurance, the situation changed, very soon, and significantly. And have been changing ever since. It was soon realized that we are stuck with past fantasies where insurance is in place. Despite the years of political discussions, we have not been able to beat up the insurance policy. That's why I wonder what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, head of Congress, left green, looking back 40 years to justify the current situation. In recent years, when all social circumstances have led to the use of prices and services, the index has not increased to a degree, to the point that there is an elephant at the party. The keepers of the land have risen up out of all power, and have led to the sudden debt of the houses of the land. The apocalyptic mentioned. About 118 billion of the facilities have increased the index when inflation alone, apart from housing, would have increased it by 15 billion. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister: Does a minister propose to the Commission on the future of the money policy that housing prices should not be part of inflation goals? Does this mean that the committee suggests that the building factor is removed from the index?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u44	Mr. President. We've already discussed the benefits and benefits of the insurance and the questions about how to take the mortgage out of an index. There are many reasons why it should be done, but things are not always as simple as they seem at first glance. Not to be overlooked, however, is the fact that during the first few years after the fall of business banks, it was the housing price that held down the index for development, so it was in that respect. It is true, however, that this is true. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Wazowski's Víglundsson changed, of course, insurance is not a good way to go for long periods of time. It must be our goal to provide a healthy financial system where people in need of the mortgages can choose interest rates, whether they want to aim for certain insurance, etc., that all of them are available. It is very important, however, that we in this room take very seriously the report and suggestions presented by a team on reevaluation of Iceland's money policy yesterday. It is of utmost importance, and I will put myself under the direction that the Council's Economic and Business Committee will then file a report on material treatment and will make it possible for us to have a meaningful, serious discussion, not only at the Committee but also at the council chamber when possible. It's probably not until the next fall, but I think most members of the council have been able to study this extensive report that I must say they deserve commendation, the three members of that group. [[The president calls.]] And the work will be successful if we take up a material discussion about the report. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u45	The president asks why. Councilmen respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u46	Mr. President. It should be noted that many experts, and most, believe that the insurance will not be reassigned due to the Constitution's holding rights on borrowing. So it will not change anything for those who have already taken securities loans. Let us be careful not to deceive people in this regard. Second, credit institutions offer options to determine whether a person will accept a loan that is inaccessible or inaccessible or a combination of both. There is freedom of deal in this regard. Third, it is clear that only the long - priced loans can afford most of the money they earn. Therefore, if a person is to forbid such forms of agreement, he needs to perform a very progressive counter measures. However, while living at the crown, we need to reorganize our financial systems according to the interests of the common people. Now that 70% of the financial system is in the hands of the State, it is a unique song now that is not available again to rethink things. There's one idea I'd like to put in front of the recording of a real currency but that's trying to get foreign competition into the financial market. Fortunately, Iceland is part of the EEA Convention, which assumes the free movement of capital. I'm convinced that if a foreign bank were to start business here, e.g. ... withunconvinced loans to the public, competition would help improve interest rates for the public. Look what Costco did for the day market. The price of money is the price of words. In Iceland money is expensive, including Because of the crown and the swing of the economy. The insurance policy is nothing more than a crutch of the crown that we will not be rid of until our dollar is restored. Her time has simply passed, Mr. President. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u47	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Unleashing Ísleifsson Ólafur of a proverb and the highest. Minister for the discussion. It is of utmost importance, and it is of great value to members of the Parliament to convey their views to one another in a relatively neutral manner, as is the case here in the public talk. There are many views. There are many things in this discussion. It's not simple. One of the natural things we're all here is that our pension system is actually tied up on the top of the insurance. This does mean that there are guarantees for those who accept pensions, but it does mean that the whole system somehow sinks into what price insurance has created in this respect. This needs to be treated, and this is part of what will likely need to be considered when the insurance will be canceled. Hv. paritaprevir Ágúst Ágústsson Águssson came upon it before the contracts that have already been made with insurance will not be changed in a single session without contracts, i.e. It needs to be negotiated with those who have taken the loans and those who have granted them. It is not simple, but it is natural, like each other's work and must be carried on. In effect, the insurance as it is today is in some respects a product of the special policy. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson indicated earlier. Betrayal loans have been the only means by which those who earn relatively little money to enter the housing market for safety. This is one of the things we need to discuss in this context, and this discussion cannot be considered without considering all these surfaces. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u48	V.E.G. President. First of all, I want to thank the founder of this discussion and the highest. Secretary of finance for discussing this important matter. This was shown in the case of the highest. Secretary of finance that a government contract is expected to take decisive steps to eliminate insurance, but plans are not intended to follow up completely in the near future. It's a government theme. In most cases, there are plans, but there is no way that they will be applied in the future. Mr. President. When the plight of the government is greatest, help is next. The central category has already provided a bill for the removal of the staff from the index number. That bill is now in the Economic and Business Committee, and there's nothing to be done about taking it out of there and moving it into the Senate Hall so we can have a discussion about it. It has been shown in the bold implementation of the Agency's chairman and, of course, the group has always supported the fact that the housing team is moving out of the index, and then it is quite clear that since the Central Party and the Propulsion Party and, of course, the people are back for this matter to be taken care of, I expect the Pirates even do so, here is a broad harmony to help the government in this case, U.S.A. Minister. It is therefore focused on this matter of taking the housing team out of the index number which is proposed when mortgages are taken simply speed up through the Economic and Business Committee, there will be a good discussion and the case that eventually agreed very quickly. That settles the issue, topv. Minister, and will do us all well.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u49	V.E.G. President. I emphasize that it is important to examine the overall context of the objects, all important changes that affect economic and financial stability. Then I'm dealing with money policy, financial stability, the interest of homes and the possibility of homes to finance real estate and what criteria would it be wise to consider with all these factors. Therefore, in order to appoint a panel of experts who appreciate the benefits and shortcomings of paying insurance to the indicator prices without housing teams, the General concluded that a loan has a choice of which indicators is fundamental to the price of such commitments. In particular, during the analysis work it will be seen how in Iceland's major business countries, in terms of the impact of the change in salary, credit rates, inflatable loans and interest status, as well as the impact of the proposals for money reassessment, may have on the index, insurance and interest policies of the Federal Bank. The report on the reevaluation of money policy was published earlier, and the Senate soul code agreed to agree perfectly with it because the staff suggest that a index is to be considered. We need to make a distinction between taking into account the index and the development of the system and then the basis for the value-separated loan agreements. This is important, and as a result, the work assigned by the Outfit and the Senate arrangement, which was thought of as enforcing this journey, is well agreed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u50	Mr. President. It has been interesting to keep up with the discussion because it has revealed what I think is a basis for speaking of as the unholy Trinity of Icelandic finance, i.e. The insurance, the dollars, and so universal flux instability that results from our having a small economy, which is a few basic tasks, which results in our always having large espionages and the growth complex all connected with it. Consider the problem mentioned, that it was difficult for people to get up in the special policy, which is partly explained by the lack of speciality, but also by the fact that historical wages have been relatively low and small, especially for young people, to save. This makes it difficult to reach the housing market. If you look at the crown only, because it's that I think one of the easiest places to fix things, it's very interesting to read the report that came out yesterday. It is in many ways good, but it struck me immediately on her first pages where it was noted that there were only two patterns that could be recorded, i.e. stiffer inflation aims or some kind of currency advice. Now the World Bank Fund has published a report, or it's not even a report, it's a foundation set for it, which speaks of nine standard policy patterns. The fact that this committee could only spot two of them surprise me, since well - educated economists worked on the report. I could, for example, count all the benefits of canceling your insurance policy. I could talk about it for a long time, but in any case, it sounds like a lot of support to fix it. [[The president calls.]] Everyone sees the problem, it may be just the military differences and the emphasis that change between people, and we should, of course, try to get along with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u51	A respectable president. I think we should agree in this hall to take the report that has been prepared on the potential for money in a careful conference. This is of utmost importance to us. In some way, we need to work together to reach our country's interest level. We're not gonna get rid of insurance before. Valuable insurance is a crutch of unstable currency, a crutch of high interest. However, it is interesting, too, when this report is addressed, and when you look at the indexing point, that we calculate this housing in a way that is very different from that of our neighbors, so that its enhanced effects are much greater than if we look, for example, at the same time. to the few other countries that are actually using a comparable formula for the housing team. We are actually doing so, such as housing or an increase in the framing of housing, the small part of the country's housing that changes hands each year, increasing the cost of their housing, which is, of course, wrong. Of course, there are those who buy houses at high prices that are at some cost. Even if my neighbor bought a house at a higher price than I did, my expenses will not be affected. This is actually gonna blow up the cost of inflammation or housing target in the index and, of course, is very serious because there is no other country that is as supportive to the insurance as we are in the bank accounts. This is something I think should be a top priority to correct. There is no apparent evidence of this, and if we did this in a similar way as we did in other countries, it would be of great importance to the security of the people of the land. But saying that we must not forget the rest; we must approach this debate intelligently. We need to talk about all aspects of the money management, the pros and cons of the crown, the pros and cons of other possibilities, such as euro, and how we can improve the economy in order to promote a lower interest level than we have had in recent decades. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u52	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for his contribution to the discussion as well as for the contribution of all the people. senators who have participated in the discussion and have followed it. I'm not going to make a lot of remarks during this brief time with the Minister's talk, but I'd like to say two things. It may not go too far to have the choice of a man's name between loan forms when banks have the advantage of suspense loans in a way that allows many to flee because of the high price value on insurance. In a chess case, it's called a forced choice. It must not cause people to weaken their zeal and energy for bringing us into our financial territory, although this is a matter of nominal choice. The banks are making a lot of money out of positive insurance equality that most of their loans are insecurable. I'd also like to allow myself to say, for the words of the Minister, that the conversation about insurance is in some sense too great that I cannot agree with it. We need to discuss her much more. The discussion here has shown that humans are naturally trapped in their graves. I allow myself to wonder how far it is. A senator of the left green walks when he justifies the financial insurance insurance that was here 40 years ago. [[The president calls.]] Hv. A senator combines interest and insurance and accuses them of the slides, Mr. President, which are not in the same fog as the discrepancies. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Otherwise, I want to finish my discussion by thanking for the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u53	A respectable president. Thank you for your time today. I'm going to let me start by saying that I find the problem with the mortgage market primarily that there is not enough freedom on the market. When a person is going to take a financial loan or when a borrower is going to be assured of a loan, only one index is available. Maybe that's the problem. If we had more variety in loans, we could see the different growths that freedom would bring. You can't go the way some of us feel. Today, members of Congress have been saying that the housing team alone is responsible for this large part of the price in recent years, as if we had pulled the mortgage out, the interest would have been totally unchanged. We don't have the answer. Here, some have called for the solution to all of this, but the situation in Sweden today is that there are well over 200 thousand young people between 20 and 127 years of age at home, about 1/4 of all young people at that age. Since the start of measurements in 1997, the rate has not been higher. There, the euro is helping, even though they do not fit the economic situation in Sweden, not to solve the housing problem. There has never been a greater host of young people in the euro than there have been today. I must also say, because of what was presented in the final speech, that I do not call for people to stop talking about the insurance policy, it may continue. But I would have liked to have more discussions about growth because it is often the same ones who complain about the high interests that in this council hall pressured me, the minister of finance, the government, to negotiate immediately with those who require dozens of pay. [[The president calls.]] That's even. one context that has never been accepted at a Parliamentary Hall, that if you want to live in a country where pay goes up 10 to 155% each year, year after year, you want to live in a high-growing country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u54	V.E.G. President. The person standing here knows the President because he's a reasonable man and a payback. Therefore, I do not understand why votes are set when there is no agreement on what will be considered on the program for this assembly. That's not a deal. I'll remind you, for example. in the case that I mentioned earlier, which could save the government in a difficult matter, about removing the mortgage team from an index. There is very much support for that matter in the Assembly Hall. First, the government wants it on the program. Second, the head of the advance party has declared that this is a major issue of the forward movement for decades. So there will be no more than wide support if they arrive on the program. Since this matter has to be arranged, along with many others who are urgent, I ask for it at the highest level. For example, the president of the United States has arranged for a meeting during the hearing of a man's advice on what is going on, not to impose a vote that is unconcerned by members of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u55	The President allows to announce that a meeting is postponed. A meeting is expected to begin again at 4:30. The president points out that they are expected to be paid votes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u56	No matter the 4th mg. 10 g. Conventional conferences, for the duration of a meeting, suggest that a conference can last longer today, and that will be considered approved if no objections are made.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u57	V.E.G. President. I recommend to the Committee's members a greater portion of the budget of the State budget for the period 2019-2023. The committee has discussed a number of meetings since its arrival on April 13. The proposal is on the 5th floor. track No. 123/2015, public financial matters. It shows that a minister should propose to the General a proposal to conclude a financial plan until the next five years. The plan is based on a financial policy approved by the General as a Congress resolution on March 22rd. and is set until the beginning of the terms of the election, and is not reviewed unless clearly necessary. The budget, however, is reviewed annually, in the spring, for about five years. An arrangement was made for the General Assembly to include joint meetings of budgetors and other Synod committees and to use them to introduce key objectives and priorities to the program. The arrangement is in accordance with the ideologies of public financial legislation, in which there is a better planned design and budget than has been established until now, both at the board of directors and at the General Assembly. The fixed committees received a review of the 34 related environmental policies under the committee and the Economic and Business Committee specifically discussed the income of the programme. Committees called out to visitors, some of whom met both the branch committee and the committee in charge of the relevant topic. The committees then gave the financial commissions, and they are published with the opinion of the following documents. In addition to the Ministers and personnel of all halls, the Committee was contacted by representatives of the United States, the next of all sources, but they came from the financial advisers, the European Union, the European Commission, the Feminian Financial Association, the National Reconservation, the National Association of Industrial Society, the Union of Icelandic Artists, the Land Hospital, the Union of Staff State and Farms, the Association of Economic Services, the Association of Travel Services, the Government, the Land Association of Foresters, the Landing Union of the Forests of Iceland, Aggresive Association of Iceland, the Kennities of the European Union, Iceland and National Social Services. The main factors taken in the plan are the financial resources of the public organisation, i.e. State and community as well as government companies. If government companies are divorced, except for 70% of the state's total government, but less than 30% of the community business. In spite of much more government activity, making decisions in harmony with economic goals is a common responsibility for the state and its members. For the main terms listed in the schedule, see the chart on page 5. 1 in a committee party. The suggestion itself is provided in six tablets and is provided with a detailed report. The first table shown here shows key numbers about the survival and economy of public contacts. The other tablets show a budget index for the overall public, exchange of the A-part State Fund, and part-of a unit, total budget of state funds, and budget of the areas. A few budget teams do not fit in the frame. They are the interest fees of state funds, state responsibilities, pension bonds, employment insurance and contributions to rural Surgeons. The total budget of the last table is therefore lower than the total budget of the state's budget of donations for these joints. The report covers all the principal financial teams, such as the economic presidents of the programme and the general financial overview. Government financial and financial matters are discussed in certain sections. The first chapter of this chapter deals with policy schemes for the subject areas under which they are hearing. The scope of the fields, activities, and major challenges, vision, goals, standards, actions, and funding is considered in this discussion. Although the topic structure of the report is similar to previous financial programmes, there are some changes. At the introduction of an older strategy, it was criticized that the index of the plan was poor, i.e. not to differentiate between investment expenditures and business fees. This is now improved by a table extension that appears on the Ministry Homepage but is not found in the schedule itself. This information and further discussion of investment can be found in the specific section of the opinion. In this case, the majority feel that all goals and standards, with increased experience, are more well thought to date than in previous schedules. In fact, the estimated cost estimates for the measures started in the first plan are not currently presented. The Ministry of Economics and Economics has explained that agencies do not maintain a valid budget, and there is no such procedure. As a result, such cost estimates may give misleading information. The Ministry is working on this. The majority feel that the introduction is compatible with cost accounting. This can be achieved, for example. the opportunity to better evaluate the practicality of action that will be considered in the years to meet the goals. It also gives management a better view of action and shows relative importance between operations. The report is improved by previous programmes with special coverage, boxes, issues that have been significant in the discussion. However, it is not a process of staging, as has been suggested by various commentators. The boxes are about: 1st Change of industry. 2. I think it's a good turn for the corrected off. 3. Tax and improvement systems. 4. Better income tax system. 5. In neighboring lands, expenses. 6th Change the framed expenses of 2017 and 2018. 7. The debt control and the fundraiser. 8. Foreign loans' permanent management. 9. It's a country partner's financial policy. The plan shall be based on financial policy totals adopted on March 22rd of March. and it should be confirmed that it is consistent with its policy. The main results of the strategy have been compared to those proposed in the policy. It shows that the share of gross domestic product recovery is the same as expected in the policy policy, but none can be expected to exceed the share of the current year's policies by 1.4%. The most extensive estimate of the plan is the opinion of a financial body. By 13. the law on public finances is the responsibility of the Council to determine whether financial programmes meet the baseline laws and the council's opinions should be published publicly. The advice plays an important role and is considered to be an important part of a professional estimate of the schedule. The majority agree with the following factors: 1st The committee addressed what was involved in the setting, format, and procedure. The review is more comprehensive than previously considered by the Committee, but some can be added, such as further linking coverage to baseline by Article 6. The law, but it's sustainable, cautious, stable, firm and transparent. 2. The so - called basics were designed to show a balance of pay and income according to local laws and regulations, involving expenses and income, regardless of government decisions, such as the emphasis on contracts and the effects of future legal adjustments. 3. The recommendation has repeatedly pointed out that despite neither criticism nor easy calculation, it is important that the efficiency corrected result be given when assessing the maintenance of public funds. 4. It is noted that financial and baseline rules can be stumbled by a recession in the economy. The rules of conduct and obligation may violate baseline stability, and the use of public finances in such situations is unclear. Then the Committee took up what was in charge of the economy and what was to come to pass. Total growth estimates are in line with agreed financial policy, but the results of the current year could be lower than the target of 1.4% of GDP. Nearly the entire programme period is expected to remain on the floors of the course, so much is not to be exposed. The nature of the case suggests some uncertainty about the economy, and the use of more scenarios and greater flexibility in the production of the digitized policy targets would improve. Plans for public investment may be improved, especially in the long run. Investors fall largely during the first part of the programme period, which does not fit in for fluctuation and stability goals. The timing of increased expenses and tax reductions needs to be considered in the context of the economic fluctuation. Success has been achieved in paying off the debt of the state. This trend is mainly explained by monotonous income and by growth in economic growth rather than by good growth. It will then be noted that the baseline values refer to economic factors rather than to sectoral opinions and solutions in environmental policies. Thus, the Council is only very limited in policy issues of climate. The committee was aware that financial advice would not be a detailed subject on the policy of individual causes and has both a budgetary committee as well as other fixed committees over the field and is outlined in a specific section of the opinion. Much depends on financial advice and has been followed up for the financial and economic services. The nature of a matter has been seen in some indications in the past opinion of the Council. Following the 2017 State Department, the Ministry arranged for the project and prepared a reform plan. The situation at the Ministry sums up the following: The Ministry has had the analysis of the necessary improvements in the baseline labour practices and the plan has some marks. Baseline roles have then been defined in the understanding of financial rules and baseline relationships and the duration of the programme. The recovery adjusted cost has been high in the discussion and in financial discussion and tips. However, the Ministry disagrees with the Council on the importance of eco-efficiency-corrected measures, as shown in the discussion of financing, which was approved as a Senate resolution in March. Nevertheless, the Ministry has gained further information on the methodology and calculation in this field of international institutions, such as OECD and IMF. National projection and planning are in progress. The Ministry has agreed with Iceland's Habitat on cooperation on information collection in the process of predicting and staging. Then a new national interest model is being developed that would take greater consideration for the government of the government of the government of the government. The Ministry, underlined on scenarios and sensitivity analysis, is an additional cooperation with the Hauspium as part of improving the management process for the next financial programme. The recommendation points out that there must not be much water when the off-off is estimated on the floor of the policy over the years. The Ministry points out that with the annual reevaluation of financial programmes, there will be room for governments to take action if the result is less than expected in financial policy. Twice, it has been suggested that there is a lack of detailed research on the development of possessions. The Ministry feels that it is not possible to cope with this until the new establishment of the budget is established, which is won in accordance with international accounting standards. It will be available by the accounts of 2017, which will be expected to be published in the summer. The Council points out that planning may be improved on government investments, and much of this is up to the Ministry. In this regard, it is possible to revise laws on public projects, No. 84/2001, in order to establish a consistent impact assessment, including the cost-and-benefit analysis of other nations. The priorities of decision-making should also be further developed regarding the most important investment projects being made in the programme. In fact, financial advisers have called upon to improve the consultation of citizens and local partners on investments. The Ministry assesses this to make significant adjustments in various areas in order to correct the indication. The Commission will follow up the above points and expect a good cooperation with the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, Iceland's Office and other bodies coming up to achieve the objective of improving and strengthening all the diagnostic work and information provided by an updated financial programme each year. The Commission went to several diagnostic jobs and called for quantifiable analyses in addition to what is published in the program and had a meeting with representatives of the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs in order to obtain more explanation for the individual sums. In their work, the committee sought to bring up the trend of pay and income. In order to get a clear comparison, the sum of money was placed on solid prices, secondly based on basics, and third, based on uninvested spending development. A summary of the remuneration and income development of fixed prices can be found in the SmPC, starting in 2010. The overview of how to account for the change in financial resources, which compares the amount of the budget with the actual expenditure of previous years. So called a basic thing was a way that the Ministry used to see who would likely be paying and earning development based on available commitments, laws and regulations without any actions, including maintenance measures and decisions on new and increased expenses. According to the basic examples, framed spending increases by a total of 31 billion dollars. From 2018 to 2023, i.e. about 4%. However, the plan itself goes up by 109 billion K, i.e. 16% in the season. The greatest differences in decision making for the construction of the Land Hospital, the maintenance of health care, the increased transport activities, and the buying of helicopters, as well as the added disability expenditures, nursing homes, and family growths. This shows that new decisions lead to 78 billion dollars. increase. Then the Committee has identified uninvestmented costs development and is published in its entire special section on environmental policies. This amount of money often provides a better picture of the underlying developments over a long period of time than the plan itself, where there are a number of grammatical variations in the individual years in line with investment decisions. Investors are discussed in the opinion of this particular section. The majority feels that despite the professional criticism of financial advisers and several other sources, financial programs are trustworthy in the governments' plans as they appear and on grounds on which they depend. The projections and scenarios need to be improved, however, the plan is based on solid foundations, and its main premise is the National Organization of Iceland. Continued economic growth, though, is a basic premise. The most important thing is to build and strengthen stability. This helps to ensure the level of purchase that has been achieved in recent years and prevents the growth of inflation. Evidence of economic developments this year suggests that there has been a reduction in the risk of overheating the economy and has also increased the likelihood of a so - called soft landing. Recently, private consumption has continued the economy, but it does not have to be negative, for at the same time home has a new drive to reduce debt. It is therefore important to continue in the course of looking to ensure power and to prevent future inflation. The budget represents the total cost and the budget of the environment. The Committee will explain the major investment decisions-related aspects of the programme and put in a table as well as the budgets of 2017 and 2018. There's all the money on the price of 2018. In accordance with the terms of the government's covenant, financial plans are proposed to describe the plans for a significant structure of society. This refers to a transport and technology system that serves employment and the public and the welfare, education, health and legal systems that share the basis of economic and social well-being, public property, and require long-term investments. It also states that the amount of investments in the A part of the state... from the 2017 budget. For example, it is estimated that by 2021 the total investment will be over 29 billion. greater than 2017, i.e. 76 billion bucks. which is an increase of 63%. In fact, investments are expected to drop to 61 billion dollars. in 223 C.E. The most outstanding explanation is that in 2021 an investment in a new high - tech hospital will be expected to be a maximum. There are also significant increases due to roads, helicopters, and nursing homes. Other projects are less important. Special efforts will be made to strengthen the infrastructure of transport by providing the resources for the construction and maintenance of transport workers. The campaign involves making investments up about 4 billion dollars. every year for the next three years, but every year 5.5 billion times. The further transport contributions in the past three years, and investment in this field is estimated to be over 21 billion. every year. This is because there is an urgent need for action in this category, which is mainly due to significant increases in driving in recent years. Additional contributions will be devoted to a significant improvement in transport activities that would otherwise have had to wait for later. The committee has had meetings with representatives of Istavia and National Revocations, including in connection with investment plans. It should be noted that the investments of public enterprises are very difficult for all investments. Istavia plans investments for about 30 billion bucks. each year for the next few years. It's nearly half of the annual investment of the entire A-part of state funds. Governments are required to initiate a structured information gathering on corporate investments, as well as to evaluate the scope of a variety of investments in the private markets, such as housing and employment. The committee received detailed information from the Economic and Business Committee on income management and also obtained additional information from the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs. It is estimated that the income of the state's budget increases substantially over the period to a dollar but slightly reduces as a proportion of GDP at the same time. Based on the 2017 budget and until the end of the programme in 1923, the overall change in the schedule is provided. Of course, economic development is crucial for predicting the income of a government fund for the next few years. Iceland's National Organization from February onward provides the basis for the forecast of income. Although economic growth has been slow this year and is predicted to decline during the period, positive developments are still expected. The projections will be followed by some 13 years of continuous economic growth, which is the longest economic growth available in Iceland's modern economic history. The factors of national interest that are most important to the institutions of the state are labour demand, salary, inflation, inflation, subsidies, private consumption and consumption of foreign tourists, other domestic demand and economic growth. The development described in the Work Programme reflects national assessments of relatively stable economic growth and tax returns despite attempts to reduce insurance costs by 0.25 percentage points and further declines later in the period as well as the decrease in bank tax rate by four paces from 2020 to 20203, from 0.36% to 0.145%. An overall review of income taxation is considered for individuals who should result in a reduction of tax burden of 1 percent in the lower level. That is the equivalent of some 14 billion dollars. The main indicators for the Economic and Business Committee, which are addressed to a greater proportion of the budget committee, are as follows: 1st The importance of the diagnosis and assessment of the potential effects of taxation change on national relevant areas is explained. They also need to be evaluated for the effects of change on other government agencies. 2. The global re-examination of the income tax system is a positive step along with a review of the improvements systems and agrees with that. During the revision, it is important that the system be more efficient and more transparent. The change in personality discount is to be considered in order to benefit most from the payiest but to decrease as wages rise. Such changes will be made only after extensive consultations and with the support of the workforce. 3. A planned reduction in insurance costs is in accordance with the government's administration contract, which also considers the need to provide suggestions on the basis of the insurance bill and the payment of unemployment insurance and the delivery of holiday funds. 4. The majority agree to set aside the ideas of increasing the value tax of tourism and to provide a positive basis for the move of hostilities to rural society and support the plans to support rural income populations. 5. Remuneration is being offered on the basis of research and development costs, which is a very positive step, but it is suggested that the tax interest in the establishment and financing of sceptical and innovation companies should be considered. 6th A significant project on global re-evaluation of automobile taxation and fuel with two main objectives is to provide taxes for public management and to counteract negative effects of driving equipment. Our objective is to include: to reduce carbon dioxide emissions and encourage transport energy exchange in general. In addition, the more part shows the need to identify the effects of carbon taxes on the inhabitants of the region as well as possible counter measures. 7. At the beginning of the year, income tax was increased to 22%, but work should be reviewed by the tax strain in order to obtain more experience. The majority of the data shows that it seems that a simple and more reasonable amount of stress is increasing the cost of a income target rather than the incorporation of complex physical growth calculations. 8. The majority of them are involved in the receipt of travel-related services, including the possibility of coming or leaving expenses. It is noted that if possible, special attention will need to be given to the state of the international flight. It would be considered that according to the length of flight, the price will vary according to the number of different countries. Then there is the need to assess the impact of tax system and reciprocal changes on tourism activities and to set a clear legal framework for payment at the main public attractions. Travelers may become an important means of access control and, at the same time, a part of nature protection. 9. The majority of the data show that in connection with the implementation of the programme, it is important that the revenues follow clearly and add up the progress of the changes in the tax system being published in the timelines of the programme. In addition, the more part points out the need to legalize as soon as possible a change in bank tax, which remains unchanged from a previous financial programme and assumes that the tax rate will drop in four equal steps. Correction of these plans reduces uncertainty about the value of business banks, increases interest in them, and is expected to reduce the interest of international and foreign banks. With regard to the policy of climate change, the main element of reporting through financial programmes turns toward the 34 issues of the A-part State Fund. The further disunition of pay is only by means of a financial bill that divides the matter into about 100 lawsuits. In a follow-up with a bill for budgets, financial contributions are presented to the individual Member States and to-dos of about 400. The Parliament's fixed committees have sent a budget report on the areas under which the matter is addressed, as well as the economic and business committees that I specifically discussed, which deal with the entire income side. Many of these accounts show that the committees feel that the lack of further expenditures is lacking. In this connection, the majority point out that there is not yet a definitive distribution of the language base yet. The Commission has developed details that do not appear in the program itself, as per the diagnostic work of the Committee, and it points to the fact that other fixed committees can continue to take advantage of this work in reporting financial plans. The changes in donations to the framed budget are then presented in the table. In order to put the plan into context and at the prices of 2018, it is based on the start of 2017 and the final year of the plan 2023. In this way, contributions to stock costs are excluded in order to eliminate the variations of regular spending without the fluctuations that result from individual stock costs. This table is used in a discussion of individual topic areas as a comparison between years of age. In some cases, however, it may give a misleading point to reference in 2017, where this is true in our discussion. The table confirms that the government is made up of fundamental changes. Operational expenditures increase overall by 117.5 billion K, i.e. 19%, in the season. This is an enormous expansion of expenses, and continued stability is essential for its success. The increase in welfare costs is more than an example of a country, especially at the beginning of the programme. With regard to 2017, economic spending will be a total of 85 billion dollars. above the budget of 2017 in 223 C.E. It is 78% of the total increase in all issues and therefore clearly shows the priorities of the government in the interests of welfare. Then there is a list of key issues. For the information of the elderly, contributions are raised by 17.7 billion dollars. and to the most significant extent will show up in the 2018 budget when the impact of global review of social security benefits was observed. Costs due to disability and the speech of disabled persons are next to their weight, about 17 billion dollars, and health services outside the hospital are rising by 14.8 billion. Hospital service contributions rise by 13.1 billion. where there is an expected increase in the number of hospital donations above the price level. The largest rate per year is 66%, which is most likely to occur as early as the first year, i.e. 2018, and explained that the initial work programme for real cost was 2017 and 2018 did not work out. Relatively, the increase to the environment is next, about 47%, and the increase is mainly seen in the latter part of the period, in line with the government contract. Hospital health services increase by 34%, the third largest increase in both the budget and the proportion of donations in 2017. A respectable president. Is this the time that...?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u58	Is left.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u59	It's 10 minutes short, isn't it? It's 40 minutes, isn't it? [[Up front.]] Well, that's all. It's gonna take ten minutes, so I'm gonna have to refer to this fine committee opinion that I've come so far. I'd like to state, though, at the end of that, I'm not going to discuss specific topics, I'm going to share the tip of the budget board. I want to inform you that this was the idea of a smaller section of the Committee and what. þm. Ágún Ólafur Ágústsson, who we discussed on the committee, I especially thank you for that. [[The president calls.]] I think it's a good way to deal with it, and that chapter is published in all terms by this national financial programme. The majority suggest that the proposal be adopted and written under the following furrows. Councilmen: Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, Haraldur Benediktsson, Bjarkey Gunnarsdóttir Gnarsdótttir, Páll Magnússon, and Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u60	Mr. President. I also want to bring up the joint tips of every committee on the budget board. I think we must take a very good and positive step in terms of working a little more directly across the hall. Nevertheless, I would like to criticize the greater part, in view of the fact that more of the legal committees do not make any material changes in the budget. Our joint tips are primarily in the development of a fine pay, but much of the committee does not suggest any material changes to a financial program of less than 5,000 billion. So the majority are ready to sign up on the financial program as it comes from the Ministry. I don't think it's a good way to think that we got a lot of material comments, we got over 40 reviews, many of them good. That's why it's a little strange because we've been talking about not lifting up any of the Generals. The legislature is on this side of the room, but not on that side. Why is it that the majority do not trust to make one single change of 5,000 billion plans? There is no crown. Here we are talking about a financial plan. Recently, we talked about financialism. Then the committee also made no changes. What kind of politics is simply signing it as the highest? - Secretary of finance should be at the table? Then I would like to recall that when the budget itself was finished in December, more parts of the budget were made only 0.2% change. As a good spirit as a member of the budget board, and I would like to give special commendation to the chairman of the Committee, it is an amazing disappointment that we do not see any material changes in the topic areas, in the stripes of this magazine. I'd like to ask you what. Chairman of the Committee: Why is it that he does not trust with much of his share in making changes to as large and as large a plan as he really is?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u61	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson, 2nd Vice President of the Year. Fundament Committee, please. I think that's a very valid question. First, I'm going to refer to a joint legal committee tip where we say that simplify and reduce the objective of the government. They need to be cost-and-appreciative. It must be ensured that they control the main financial policy and key related measures. Standards and results and goals to be defined and measurable must be required. As I studied in my speech, there is a shortage of statistics and goals and measures. However, it presents a problem for the committee when it comes to change. Then I'd like to point out that financialism is engraved on stone, and it needs a national budget to be built on, and so on. But the budget is reviewed every year, so a financial committee, as presented here, can come with a very strong suggestion for such a reassessment. But into the future, I think we need to do a very thorough review of the state of the council and the financial committees to such programs, a huge plan, where there is a great deal of money, when we make changes in the synonym itself where the bases are. I don't think this is because the committee didn't trust itself, but, yes, in part, because of the need for a very professional evaluation and based on figures that are not available, on an interconnection, in the Senate arrangement itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u62	Mr. President. Thank you. Chairman of the budget board for an honest answer. But the committee's work reminded me of a good speech meeting. I don't think it's a bit disrespectful to sources who both sent us reviews and came to the Committee, sent detailed reviews on 10 pages, that we do almost nothing about it. There are no material changes in the plan. What was the point of this discussion if we were just going to agree with the plan? The majority suggest that we accept it unchanged. I'm sorry, but I think this case, this release, is still showing how much time and time again I can see in the eyes of the Ministers' clock. This isn't right/left business. I'm not saying we agree on everything, but we agree on a lot, we can't forget it. We are to achieve these material changes that I know are subject to ideas in the heart of many members of the government. Otherwise, I'd just like to get to another point with the Chairman of the Committee because I know he's a big enough guy. This is where economic growth is expected for 13 years. Standard economic growth courses in Iceland are three to five years. Does a chairman really believe that we are about to experience a 13 - year - long cycle of economic growth? Number two: The crown's real life has never been strong, it has always fallen under such circumstances. In the next five years, a financial plan allows for an unsatisfactory failure. We know that as soon as we pass or fail, economic growth, growth, inflation, personal consumption, foreign trade, and tax returns will be affected. So as soon as the corridor goes down, all the Excels have crashed. Does the Chairman really believe that there will be an absolute success over the next five years and there will be a continuous 13-year-old economy, which I reiterate has never occurred since Iceland was a thousand years ago?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u63	V.E.G. President. I'm going to finish the discussion and thank you. A senator's question. As for the change in the basis of the Senate resolution proposal, I would like to refer to the tip of the greater part of the committee, which I could not cross earlier, with the permission of a president: The structure of the report is in such a way that targets and focus of policy are difficult to relate to the funding of each topic field. This is illustrated in the reviews in which many reporters agree with the objectives of the individual topic areas, but they feel that they are not caught by the cost offered. The committee was faced with a problem in determining the relevance of individual lawsuits according to the schedule. That is why we need to settle, and we have a plan for the future regarding change: Are we making changes? Are we going to use this tool for someone else, and in a view that they will be revised every year as planned? With the economy. We have a national interest report for the Haguess. Certainly we're on the floor of the course. I can say that because we've linked it to the changes. What I'm most concerned about is that there's an enormous increase in expenses. We draw it forward in the analysis work of the Committee to this time, where the basics are being used very well, the budget is very high. On the other hand, we were at the top of the turnoff of 2016, and economists debated that we can so timed an expansion in order to reduce the predicted economic growth and reduce the risk of us entering a recession, hopefully. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u64	A respectable president. First, there was the initiative taken by a joint financial committee, so I wholeheartedly agree. I'd like to mention another initiative, which was to call on the basics and explanations of it, which might have been appropriate to mention that I was taking the initiative, to the contrary. But the basic thing is very interesting. Hv. The head of the budget board says that changes cannot be made in financial programmes because they need to be based on numbers that are not available. That's really interesting to me. The answer to the basic problem, which also asked for the dissociation of the increase or reduction to each subject, found that the information on the cost assessment was too misleading for the council. I wondered, then, how could the Ministry use the information to create the budget frame in the first place? We didn't have the information, we didn't get it, so we could build our adjustments on it. Clearly, the Ministry could use the information to change the budget, otherwise they wouldn't have, otherwise they would have guessed, and it's not a very refreshing thought. But the Ministry doesn't want to give us that information. I wondered, " What have I done without the information? ' Maybe what. The chairman of the budget board knows that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u65	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The question is given to Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. I'd be happy to say what's happening. A senator did a great job, and he insisted that the committee make good use of the basics and receive the basics, and that is to be attributed. He also made good support and made comments on the Joint Tips of the Committee, where the principle was very effective. In part, it is a way for the Ministry to work afterwards, but it is good to see the legal projects that are on the ground and then see the additional. Then there are the investments and measures that governments, including them, can be clearly identified. goes on, they add, as shown in the basics, and it's fine. For that changes cannot be made. True, we can make changes, but it is a challenge to make such changes if we bear in mind that this is in our annual revision. We've been watching the total numbers, e.g. The critical tip of a financial body that is on the floor of a policy that simply says, and it can, of course, result in a need for a greater level of water. We know this from Sweden, where we watch the overall context. Then we need time and tools to figure out how it affects the context of every subject and language group. [[The president calls.]] There is much work ahead of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u66	A respectable president. I do not necessarily criticize the fact that adjustments were not made. I'm a critic, like a what? The manager says, the figures that must be based on in order to make a change of motion not exist. It's a very serious thing, I think, that the Council does not have the information that the Ministry clearly uses to make changes in the budgets, but does not explain to the Council what they are. I'm going to give you the review of the financial council. It says that the discussion should be a matter of government policy. I'd like to ask you what. The chairman of the budget board whether it is possible to say that much discussion has been made about government policy on the committee. There certainly was a lot of debate about the economy and changes in taxes, etc. But can it be said that the latter part of the budget, which is focused on government policy, has become widely discussed in the committee and among the visitors and others who sent in envelopes? At least I experienced it, so there was a serious shortage of explaining about that part of the budget. For example, there is talk of strengthening the expertise of the Generality Committee, but there was nothing specifically discussed about that government policy. We have no idea what the plan will be for the next five years, whether in terms of expenses or material, the content of that operation is.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u67	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's question. Regarding the first part of the question, why did the committee not get an explanation on the basis of single targets on the topic areas, we received this explanation - we sent a question about why it wasn't in the program now that was suggested in the last plan, that's a lack of consistent accounting. I believe the committee is to insist that this will happen in the future. Of course, this will do much to help what is in the second part of the question, when we discuss government policy. I think we've talked about, based on these big investments and cost gains, the overall policy development, what the government was doing, i.e. going to a lot of infrastructure. The investments I covered earlier in my speech are very important in the financial program. As noted, on the basis of individual grammatical areas and institutions, the number was missing. Still, I would like to refer to very good comments from the fasting committee. There is more and more careful coverage. Maybe I can take this as a tip. In the greater part, we endeavored to take advantage of the envelopes in our work at a committee meeting to reveal views, but it might be more useful when it comes to dealing with individual goals and policies.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u68	A respectable president. Official financial laws were approved in 2015 and became valid on January 1, 2016. This means that the last law that was adopted by the World Council, by older law, was a budget for 2016. The final budget of that year was given to this council recently. Although many things have changed with new laws, this does not necessarily mean that human behavior and tradition have changed. There are still seem to be high - cost schemes, such as a number of items in budgets last year, and recent intervention from a general reserve reveals. The law says something but decisions on legal arrangements say something else, and the Council allows ministers to get away with it. It is not enough to make new laws, but it must also be done by them. Clearly, the existing financial agendas do not adhere to the laws on public finances. These include a lack of information related to government policy. Its goals are unclear, standards are often non-translucent, and there is no cost to any government action. As a result, it is not possible to understand why governments want to increase the spending line of causes. There are no answers to simple questions, such as ◯ Why are costs rising around 3 billion dollars?▪ or why does your expenses decrease in this area? There is no connection between the change in government spending for the next five years and the policy established by the government in the budget. But in an effort to clarify things, the Ministry of Economics and Economics was asked to provide the following information: 1st Basic expenditures and contract-registered expenses of the state, so-called basics referred to in the opinion of a financial body. Diversity by topic areas prior to 2018/2023 2. Shared expenditures by topic areas above base spending, for 2018/2023. 3. The cost programme for action, according to the objectives of a financial management programme. Total expenditure for each procedure by itself to 2023. The answer to the first question was a pdf document with basic charge information for 2018/2023, see package 1 of very pleasant tablets. The answer to the first question presents the universal issue of government without explaining what the money is going to be about. Questions two and three made it possible for the government to show the council its policies, disunited and costly, so that the council could decide whether the increase in expenses was necessary, whether money was well spent, and the most important objective of their questions was to monitor the implementation of budgets. You see, the government has to state in advance how much money to take on each project and what goals to reach. If the government does not know what goals to reach or how much to reach it, the budget cannot be observed. Clearly, there is no way to tell if too much or too little money went on a project if it was never told how much to cost. There is no way to tell if goals have been achieved if there are no goals set. If government policy is not costed and measurable, then Congress cannot monitor the implementation of budget. Therefore, it was necessary to get an answer to all three questions, how much money do you need, what to go for, and why. The answer to the first question was given, but the answers to the other two questions were very interesting, not meaningful. The answer to the second question was, by permission of the president: As shown in the financial work programme report and the opinion of a financial body was produced during the implementation of the plan called a core picture/base example of the progress of public funds. The core picture of the budget gates was based on budgets for 2018, taking into account the assessment of professional management of the development of existing commitments within their sectors, and the development of systematic expenditures such as maternity and pension insurance, but without all measures, including maintenance measures or decisions on new and increased expenses. In addition to the emphasis on budgets found in 2018, the budgets of the budget was determined by government policy and by the above analysis of expansive development in the coming years. At first, this does not answer the question as usual. It's usually that way. You can't answer the questions you ask. It is not enough to say that the budget frames have been determined by government policies. A smaller section asks for an explanation of what policy is being met and what language fields and how much it costs or at least how much money to spend on that policy to reach that goal. Despite the political issue, it's not a financial plan. It may well be possible to fulfill all election promises without costing a dollar, e.g. with modification of priorities or savings. Instead, we only get some total height, sometimes a positive number, and sometimes a negative number, in each subject field. The answer to the third question was: An attempt to assess the costs of individual measures was conducted, but the implementation of the programme was found to be potentially misleading to publish this cost in the absence of consistent measures for the cost of action. As a result, such cost estimates of action would not have required information values. They also saw that institutions do not fit in with bookbooks and that there is considerable discrepancies in this cost assessment. These financial programmes were fundamental to whether or not the cost of action was to be considered. However, it is expected, both in budgetary and financial programmes, to implement the actions specified within the budgets to the responsible responsible responsible responsible. Now I've made some expensive food. It's not too complicated. It ends in a certain number before a certain operation. I don't really understand what's incontrovertible there, though there may be something behind the number that might be complicated. All we need is the overall number. But again: No answer to the question. But there are two factors that can be read from the answer received, either the cost estimate for government policy is not available or that the Ministry simply does not want the committee to receive the cost, since it does not have the desired effect to show it. It's a good place to remind you of the 50th. Parliamentary song, by permission of Presidents: In the matter of Congress, with special discussion, in response to council inquiry, and in reports, whether of personal initiative or by the request of the members of Congress, as well as in case the initiative of the regular committees of the council, the secretary should submit the information available to him and have a significant significance for the interpretation of the matter. Clearly, explaining why budgets change because of government policy are information that is of significant importance to the Council's assessment of the plan. If the information is as poor as the Ministry seems to be, the changes in the budget can be seriously questioned. Yet, it is said that their actions are contained within the budget. This suggests that the information is sufficiently informative to explain the changes to the budget. The Ministry cannot say both at once. If the data are too poor to explain the changes in expenses, it is a speculative review of the financial agenda itself, but if the data are good enough, they should be available. The evidence for discrepancies and cost estimates does not hold, since changes in budgets were eventually proposed. Either the Ministry is guessing that the project is contained within the budget or the Ministry does not want to give up the information. We need to know which one is right. When the Ministry introduced the answer to these questions to a financial committee, it was made clear that questions two and three were not to be answered. A respectable president. The constant committees gave some reviews. In addition to the employment and welfare committees, when visitors were received, visitors received a total of over 35 hours, corresponding to some 1,4◯18 regular committee meetings. The meeting of the employment committee and the welfare committee is added, the registration of all the meetings was not completed, so it could not be added. However, the budget is discussed in 44 committee meetings over a period of two months. Based on the Parliament's work programme, there is not much time to discuss all the work being done inside committees in the Senate Hall. This is explained by several factors. First, financial programs were submitted too late for the council, and second, a long meeting period during the Passover and before the district elections. In spite of this, it appears that it is too late for the council to have a financial programme at the latest of April 1 and that a smaller portion will be recommended by the return of the budget to February 1. Other general comments: There were 28 requests and 44. In general, in most reviews it was warned, and visitors also warned that the economic forecast was too optimistic and that the financial program was based on sand. At the same time, there are many projects, housing markets, transport, climate, rural income stocks, travel - service cooling, financial problems, and humanisation of the health system, reorganization of the education system, economic rights, commercial distribution errors, psychiatric challenge, increased disability, poverty traps of the elderly and desperate, lack of competitiveness due to the extent of the pension fund and the economically ills in the economy, so as to mention some urgent tasks. Government policy, II. A section on public financial matters called a payoff on government policy is a little much discussed by the government. Its subsections deal with financial, financial, financial, financial, financial, financial, financial, economic criteria, outlooks, and long-term development, review, communication and consultations between state and rural society, as well as a quarter report on public financial and financial resources. Here it is important to note that there is no mention of the budget in that section, but it has been heard more than once that government policy will be better explained in financial terms. For the budget year, the government's public financial policy for its unique areas at home in a financial programme is absolutely clear. This will explain how the policy measures correspond with the goals for the development of income and pay. This means explaining how government policy affects government income and expenses. If the budget for some topic field is e.g. increased by 1 billion K. Under government policies, costs need to be identified, costs of policy, and why. The main reason is the second role of the Generalis, i.e. overseeing budget handling. If a minister's going to buy a ship, he needs a ship like that. to say what he expected the boat to cost. It is not enough just to ask for 10 billion and to say that it needs a ship, and then the ship may cost just 4 billion and 6 billion will go to something else. Also, it is not enough to say that we're going to buy ships and just say that no money is expected. There's a lot wrong with this presentation. In the last example, it is simply said not to buy an ocean - research vessel, but it is also said that there is no money for it. How to achieve that course? True, everyone realizes that costing can often be difficult and inaccurate, but it has to be present. If expenses are inaccurate, people simply learn from them and make a better estimate of the cost next time. The purpose is what matters. Cost food is a plan for reaching a goal, so we'll just be better at being more precise with the cost of our lunches. The requirement for government policy in a financial programme is set out in the official financial law. Four. Section 5. The law says, with permission from the President: The financial programme shall introduce policy-makers for the individual topic areas of the A State Fund and how it complies with the economic development goals and pay. 20th degree. The law, policy for the media, says by permission of the President: ▪ Each minister sets out a policy for the issues and lawsuits he is responsible for at least a short time than five years of age. The policy shall highlight the focus and objectives, including quality and services objectives, of the arrangements, of development and improvement of the activities that depend on the relevant topic. The policy shall explain how goals will be achieved, responsibilities, timing, use of funds, and the emphasis on shopping. The proposed adjustment should be made. A policy for the topic field should be overall and in accordance with the financial thresholds established in the current financial programme. It is to be said as clearly as a government policy, according to a financial programme, is to be clearly blurred and not in accordance with the conditions established by the government's policy under the above laws. It is impossible to grasp the cost and effectiveness of the government's actions. The aim, for example, is at the panEuropean region and its subsidiary. to improve the services of members of the Parliament, the finest goals in themselves. But what is its scope, and how do we know whether we will achieve this goal? The method to set the objective and the measure of whether the objective is reached in this case is ◯ aims of a government contract to show them - a very interesting goal and a measure. When the Constitution is considered, it can be seen that the ◯ objective of the government covenant is to support members of the committee's work. The first smaller section challenges anyone to explain how a government policy could be interpreted as a measure of how well it was possible to enforce a government policy. It is enough to strengthen the name of a bitch, about one status value, or to make something productive, such as that all council affairs will be costed? No, this standard is wide open at both ends, and it can be said that this field of committees was supported by bitches and thus the goal was met. I guess that's not the way we want it. But that's not where the joke ends. The progress of the project is explained in a standard way. First, the situation was explained in 2017. Next, we will explain the status of the project at the end of 2019 C.E. and finally, what will be its final financial program in 223 C.E. The status of the project ◯ increased the trade service on the committee's committee to the year 2017 is ▪1. End of stage in the bill 2018 in 1996. That's a goal, according to your budget bill for 2018, not a chance. Yet, there has been reports in the tunnel that there is not a single economist on the committee field. The Council will be expected to arrive at the end of 2018 so that no cost will fall in that year, and technically, it can be said that 1st has ended. However, the benchmarks of 2019 are that the project will be partially completed and that in 223 C.E. it will be completed completely. It may be that the procedure is an increasing specialised service for members of the Parliament and the council. The procedure is not costly, and there is no clear policy on what problems it solves. I can suggest a few things, for example. The conference's assistance in evaluating the protection of the Obscurial Act, helping with the Commission's work, analysing bills for members of Congress, calculation and analysis for the implementation of budgets to mention something. The course, however, is just a level of professional services. The scale is also increasing. The measures are not costly, and the standard is that something will happen sometime. This is not an unusual example for the financial program. Another example in the same topic field is e.g. The objective was to assist with council members and members of the Parliament and to show them assistance. There is one of the criteria for a set of budgets and completion of 2019. It was well said that in 2018, when political contributions were raised by 120%. For some reason, however, this is a financial and financial program of 2019/2023. Perhaps the budget is to be improved even more during the year 2019, that is unclear, since the goal is not costing. In the legal field, there is the aim of extending courts and hearings that are efficient, righteous, and human rights respected, and courts secure. There are good criteria for the number of cases and type and the duration of treatment, but the problem is that the situation is missing for 2017, and the criteria will be based on numbers that will remain in 2018. A policy with non-existent scales is virtually no policy. No one will ever know if the policy will be met. The topic fields of the highest administration have standards that do not indicate a ◯ measurement and a non-resulting reference (s). In the case field of foreign services, the Agency is building a standard of agreements and the more extensive target for the increased availability of Icelandic employment and cultural life to the foreign markets of which the criteria for exporting prices will exceed 2 trillion. In the year 2030. For some reason, the reference date in 223 is still over 2 trillion, seven years ahead of schedule. In order to say something good, there is a fairly good policy in the local tax, property, and financial sectors. True, there are costs, such as everywhere else, but the goals are clear, and the standards are something that is really measurable. There are other factors that can be said about government policy, according to financial planning. It belongs, for example. getting a new ocean research vessel, as I said earlier, but there is still no defined objective, operation, or any amount of money to do so. Officials assumed that such a ship could cost up to 4 billion dollars. but a minister said there was no money to be expected. It'll just be arranged somehow. In the sector of transport services, most of the goals are defined as a baseline ◯ without specifying the baseline value. The same position is found in various other areas of the subject that are added to the growing myriad has no idea what the situation is. This is of great importance because government policies, as presented in financial programmes, are very important for funding and monitoring the implementation of budgets and annual reports by a minister in which a minister is aware of how the government follows its policies. If a reference policy is just a measure of a baseline, without saying what baseline value it is, simply a minister can make up what variable should be used as a baseline in order to fit the situation in each direction, thus achieving goals without actually having done anything. Government standards and guidelines must be strictly acceptable. Without it, the government's planned actions are not just policies but a wish list that would be better sent to Santa rather than to the council. The general body is not to be accepted for a financial program with such a defective production of government policy. When government policy is reviewed according to this financial program, there will be no avoiding mention of environmental issues. By the government contract, Iceland is expected to achieve its objectives in advance of 2030. In addition, the year 2040 is expected to be in Iceland without carbon share. Indeed, the objective is noble and necessary to avoid spending - even if only, so that no other pursuits are to be held - but there is nowhere to find measures that will move us toward them in any organized way. Iceland needs to reduce carbon emissions by 50 percent or reach carbon bonds in order to reach the objectives of the Paris Convention. So many of the measures you can take for a long time and to reach a set goal need to be started right away. However, the government's policy is to complete an operation program before anything else is taken. While it is good to have a strategy, the aim is clear, 50% reduction in carbon emissions. We have 11 years to get it, which means we need to get about 6% contractions a year. In this regard, it is important that we do our best as soon as possible, or good preparation, to start the work as we do, because otherwise our need for recovery builds up. We need more and more annual contractions for each year if we don't reach at least 6% of carbon output contractions immediately. A respectable president. Only on the budget: In Iceland's Constitution, 41 st. that no fee can be paid unless it is authorized in financial or financial terms. In recent years, it has been customary for them to be a little free of charge. Despite the lack of clearance, money is often paid, and after that, a warrant is sought. Since governments have generally had a greater part in the General Assembly, governments have been able to trust that such a relationship will be relatively easy to follow. Governments have been able to trust that groups of members and colleagues will prevent the government from breaking laws into a constitution by granting access to budgets afterwards. Today, however, there is a law on public financial matters where the General approves the guardianship of litigators into litigators. It has been observed several times during the discussion that this equivalent is possible to the alcontractor's surrender to the Minister, since a minister can then use the budget for anything, as long as it falls to the jury. However, smaller ones do not agree with that interpretation because legal documents are limited to government policies, as they show in a financial program. On the other hand, if the government's policy is unclear, then a minister can obviously use the financial resources much freely. A clear policy limits how a minister handles the budget approved by the General Assembly. On the other hand, if the Allied council agrees with a vague policy or with the implementation of documents that are not in accordance with the policy of legislators of the Allied Council. The General may agree with a vague policy and allow counselors to do whatever they want, or this may require a clear policy of cost evaluation and clear scales and goals. The general body of elders may also demand that ministers not abuse the financial resources they receive. Recently, the government set out a few billion dollars from the general reserve for repairs. As necessary and inevitable, such projects do not meet the requirement for using the reserves to finance their tasks. A task that the reserve fund is designed to finance must be temporary and unpredictable, along with the inevitable. Surely maintenance of the road is neither temporary nor unforeseen. Roads are broken and damaged, of course. Roads come in different ways from winter. If winter's winter is low for one year, but better off than winter another year's winter, the cost of maintenance is generally balanced. True, there may be floods, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, or other natural disasters that cannot be expected as normal seasonal fluctuations at maintenance costs. Granted, such disasters can lead to the need for provision of reserves for temporary restoration of transport activities, but it is not difficult to see how such events all meet the requirements for unseen, inevitable, and temporary spending. But seasonal fluctuations cannot be justified in meeting the requirements for temporary spending. The General may decide not to finger it out when implementation does not disseminate from the general reserve according to the arrangement for public finance. Part 1 suggests that when the European Parliament misuses its facilities and the council does nothing about it, the Council is delegating its capital. This results in further abuse, the formation of tradition, and the interpretation of the law, with the condemnation set by the Council. The general body also gives up the financiership in its own surveillance role. In fact, if government policy is uncertain, the council cannot say when a minister decides on the distribution of funds in his cause. On the other hand, if government policy is clear, a minister still assigns money beyond authority, the General will respond and do something about it. On the other hand, if the General decides not to take any action, the World Council will take over the funds to the minister. The General has not given up the financier yet, but by agreeing to vague policy, by failing to comply with surveillance, or by failing to respond to the misuse of funds by the General Assembly. The Council agrees with a budget barge and government policy as set out in a financial program. The General Congress agrees with legal documents in which the budget is divided, as stated in Article 21. in the civil law: ▪ Each minister shall submit the proposal for the exchange of legal rights to lawsuits, cr. b-coma 3. 2 mg. 5. gr., in the bill for the budget to be paid for the next year to the Minister. Each minister's financial proposals shall be divided by topic areas and litigators and shall be based on his policies and plans until the next five years and be in line with the individual Member States' policies established by him. It is obvious that government policies are very important when it comes to legal means and the context of government policy with the legal authority is important. Without a clear policy and effective monitoring of the implementation of the budget of the General Assembly, the fund is in charge of the fund. A respectable president. The last part of this is a budget operation. This has often been said about the keeping of budgets. The monitoring is an important part of the General budget and the complete key to the follow-up of whether a minister follows government policies. The financial process under public financial law is three times that. First, the process of production and approval at financial, financial, financial, and financial policies, and second, of the Generalist Monitoring, is the development of each topic area over the budget year, and finally ends with a year report in the Minister's annual report. The annual report is important, as the Minister of Ministers reviews the progress in implementing government policies or, as stated at 62 C.E. in the civil law: No later than June 1 each year, each minister will publish a annual report on the last financial year. There the results of spending should be explained in the fields of sufficiency and in his liters, and compared with financial resources, as well as to report the transfer of funds at the time. 30. g. It shall then be reported on Member States and projects and the benefit of their management with respect to the set objectives and measures set out. 20. The presentation of the annual report should be clear and clear. It may be that annual reports by Ministers prior to 2017 have not yet been published, and June 1 has come and gone. Apart from reporting the financial status of the customer's field of affairs, Ministers should link financial resources to established objectives and measures. You made plans for financial resources? Did you get a set goal? Why? Why not? The annual report is an enormously important project for the council and the next year for the next legal year. It is therefore a little strange that the annual report will not be published until the next year's budget is completed. This means, for example, that the 2018 annual report will be of no use in reevaluating government policies and spending frames until the 2020 2020 2020 -202025. In order for the annual report to be of general benefit, government policies need to be clear, targeted, clear, and costly. Without it, a minister can set almost anything in the annual report without indicating how well - set goals were achieved. Therefore, it is very important that the whole process, from financial policy to annual reporting, meet quality requirements. There, the General shall hold a key responsibility for the implementation of financing, in terms of financial policies, in terms of financial planning, in terms of budget management, as financial resources remain within the framework, in providing government support for financial management and finally a careful review of the annual report by the secretary. If the Council fails and allows the Commission to get away willingly, the Parliament will damage the rest of the process. A poor financial plan means poor funding, unefficiency in the implementation of budgetary and useless annual report. While the Council can respond to its release, this does not mean that all responsibility is beyond it. The minister must obey the law. While the Council approves of a financial programme that does not meet government laws, it does not reduce the responsibility of a minister if it provides a financial plan to the council that is not consistent with the law. A respectable president. A smaller section will agree with the joint tips of the budget board, as they are shown in the majority wing. Maybe I'll keep the reviews of the financial council a little bit and finish my case on the disclosure. The budget for 2019◯2023 does not meet the requirements for clarity, transparency, aimfulness, measure, or cost assessment. A House Parliament is not to be offered such a presentation, and 1st smaller items thus suggest that the budget will be referred to the government for further development. In order to get a real document that has a clear policy, which we can use in the budget, which we can use at the time of the Ministerial Report. It happens over and over again that we get a bad financial plan if we just accept it and say, "It's gonna be better next time. " It's not like that. This financial strategy is no better than the last one, I doubt that the next one will be much better, especially in government policy that financial advisers simply say should be the focus of financial discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u69	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For his speech, for his mighty speech, and for his parables, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. That's well, we're supposed to look at everything with critical eyes, especially the schedule we're dealing with, and we're dealing with. There's two things I'm going to come up against what's wrong. A senator, first of all, first of all, first of all, says thank you so much. A senator's goal is to put forth great effort to get the basics. As I studied in my talk, we used it here and there. A senator also did so in his opinion, considered 1st less. What I wanted to ask you. A senator's handling of this example, apart from perhaps in general, is that in the common lines of the budget board, we will see that this will be part of a future financial program. The question, then, is: How does he see that a financial committee uses the basics beyond what we did in this work? Then I'd like to go ahead, because a big part of a talk is what I'm talking about. The senator was on the basis of the cost estimate and benefit analysis of individual objectives, and this is related to what I'm going to ask in the second answer to the policy programme and to implement the budgetary process and only to be expected to be always on the basis of a financial bill and financial plan, the implementation of the measures specified, that they are contained within the budgets to the responsible responsible provider. [[The president calls.]] They just got the sense of a talk. The senator felt that this responsibility was vague, but that responsibility is always clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u70	A respectable president. A financial committee was very impressed with this request for basics, and I very much appreciate it. There was no one to oppose, for it would be necessary for the committee to receive that information. And how do we make use of this fundamental example? They needed answers to the second two questions. Without them, we can't really use it that much. It certainly helps to see just what basic business is determined. It's very good information, and it's definitely to take it into the budgets at all, to publish the basics, to reveal the basic costs, and to divide a bit so that you can see the emphasis on the government every time and space it has. It plays exactly in policy development that it is indeed the responsibility of a minister not to go beyond financial resources, but my criticism focuses on the standards and goals set. If there are no goals and no standards, we do not know what results it will be to place increased financial resources in that topic field. One goal could be set to achieve 90% of that goal, something like that, and we could see that it would be decided to put 200 million or so in it, but if the final result was that only 80% would be reached, we could ask a number of questions, what buttons were on, that would have been expected more, or was just a plan? We'll get more information. If it is said that there is no standard, we have no idea what the results of the budget and money assigned to the project - for what? What do we expect to get out of increased financial expenditures? [[The president calls.]] In the scope of this financial program, I would think it was just that big question that we would have to answer if we were adding this huge amount of expenses, as stated in the opinion of the greater part: What are we going to do with this coin?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u71	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Hv. A senator asks: " What are we going to do with this coin? By means of financial contributions, we have a copy that explains much more closely according to language categories. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he cannot support himself - because, of course, we are always trying to improve the process, it's about it. We must be longer if we watch conventional policy. I'm asking why. A senator on the way to see whether he agrees that this is an improvement in such a traditional policy process. In his speech, a senator made a fine description of both the members of the committee's home. Senator. I thought it was very good. We're in a better place. I like it. For example, a senator goes beyond the criticism of a financial body that is extremely careful, and I do not minimize criticism. Critic thinking is healthy, but I'd like to ask you why. A senator into what he envisions for improvement. Now, I'm going to set aside what is common in terms of cost assessment and the improvement of individual objectives in the process. A senator said that he was fine. The time will come when we return to the council in the fall, there will be financial laws and any reports by ministers. A senator came in. Work hard. The legal committee has become such, so it is the whole year, and we are actually discussing one big issue after another. How can you tell? That's what a senator has to say, just advice for us because this is why. Legal committees all at work in this discussion, just about that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u72	A respectable president. The publication does not show whether we are reaching set goals. It just shows the amount, and we don't know what course or what target we're reaching with the amount unless it is published with precise, measurable units. Is this for improvement? Yeah, I definitely think so, it's getting into this policy pattern. But sometimes human behavior is a little off. That's what I've pointed out in my opinion, that even if we have new laws, it doesn't necessarily mean that we're going to act somehow differently. I sense that the same procedure is still being done, e.g. That money and the reserve, then. They can somehow be used, and the Allegers sign: Yes, okay, it's all right, even though it's not all right under the law. Then: I think it will match these requirements, although it really is obvious to anyone who wants to take a good look at it that it doesn't meet the criteria. I then feel that by means of the annual reports they won't be useful. Because goals and policy were not clear, there is really no way to explain how it worked, and that doesn't help anything. What is good in this financial programme, and it will probably be good in the reports too, that the situation and situation will be explained, what are the major challenges, etc. But we cannot always live in advance each year of the situation. Rather, we want to know how the situation is now what the future will be, how much it costs, why it costs so much to be able to say in the next year: it was easier or harder than it worked out. Thus, policy is, it tells us what we are going to do to fix our current situation, not just tell us how the situation is each year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u73	President. Thank you. A senator for a extensive review, as was his hope and direction. Hv. Over the years, a senator leaves no room in which he views the application of government funds. On the law of government finance, the legal reserve of finance minister is intended to correct this. I know why. A senator came into this moment only before, but I'd like to stop and ask if he'd share any concerns about this with me because I'm concerned that it took the government more than a few weeks or months to pass a test on the application of a reserve when half is used immediately during the spring months of transportation. I don't think that no matter how you prepare the situation, considering the recent level of transport, it is absolutely impossible to paint the image that this was an unforeseen or unexpected amount of expenses. You can do the hairpieces, but if you get into a car at 100 miles per hour and keep driving without warning in the direction of the chasm, you're not absolutely on time, but you know it's there and you're never gonna be there, it's hardly a big surprise when you go off. But somehow, it was still the highest language. A secretary of transportation at the council earlier this week when this very matter was discussed. It is important that we correct these matters because government financial laws were set up to strengthen financial stability and transparency. This step was taken to set up the reserve, to prevent this suitable policy in the use of funds, in order to increase the firmness, in order to increase the transparency, in part to at least But if it gets used like this, we'll just sit in the same spot. I'd like to start by getting to hear it. A senator, how he feels about this explanation, this justification for using half of the reserve immediately in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u74	A respectable president. As in the past, the General Assembly especially had to discuss the budget and accept it, and they were subject to the same conditions as the reserves now. The fact that a minister does not have to use the reserve through the council is, in fact, a shortcut, a shortcut. However, it is repeated at the same time that these limitations about unforeseen and inevitable and temporary use should be interpreted extremely narrowly. This is to prevent the grip of the reserve. I like that shortcut possible. It takes a lot of time and effort to take all of this through the council. And when a matter meets the criteria, it would be expected to accept it anyway. But there is an interesting difference between the present arrangement and the older one. If the terms are not met, neither should the General Assembly sign such sums, but there seems to be no way for the council to say no. The minister just assigned a reserve, says that the distribution meets the criteria and it seems to be, according to interpretations I've heard, that no one can do anything. A minister is to present a budget transfer from a reserve, and I would think that if a financial committee, and then perhaps the council, does not confirm that it depends on the limitations of the distributions of reserves, then the case will end there. The government has to explain, reason on these limits, why it is legal for them to be divided from the reserves. [[The president calls.]] In this case she has not.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u75	President. Thank you. A senator for going through this. This may be the same interpretation, making it interesting. I think we need to take a good deal of more discussions about these topics in a better void. But I would like to use my later answer to discuss these policies and financial plans only. It's a policy policy, it's primarily a political policy position. This is the big movie. Thereafter, governments, the nature of the matter, with important plans in progress too. I randomly mention, and this has to do with the committees I'm sitting in, e.g., a transport plan, a structured plan, we're talking about a medical program in the future. It's also an enormously important dating spell and in a perfect world, if we were to make it all work, it would have to work together. The work force of this financial program, now under the laws of public finance, is now very downtrodden, both in terms of timing and how to handle all of this. This does not have all the plans. Now's the time. A senator of great interest in these policies and effectiveness in our work here, and I wondered if he can see how the project can be shaped so that we would really be directing all these streams, if you can call these unique programmes it, in the same direction as this plan to really benefit from public finances and thus the overall picture. I'd be interested to hear only a glance. There's a senator's job on how to change this procedure.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u76	A respectable president. That's exactly what I saw when the financial program was being reviewed. I thought that the government's policy on each subject would really match that of a health or transportation program or something similar. However, in the case of financial programmes, the policy of each topic area, the whole topic field, all the topic areas, is provided in a paper with one synonym. Another strategy is that of a political arrangement that needs to be passed through the council, etc. There's nothing that can be changed. It is not possible to discuss each subject field and the policy of each subject does not receive any legal treatment. I find that a very interesting flaw in this arrangement. I believe every topic should receive its regular treatment in terms of policy. It would have to work gradually, for there are a bit of activity going through the 34 issues each time, overall. Actually, it would be the most difficult thing to do first, but then we would just be dealing with a slight change and improvement as a result of the work less complex. This may start with the financial program, but these little streams, such as water, can be taken first. A senator puts it, and in fact, the subject field has become a bit good at it, working much more with its policy outside the financial program as such. I find it completely unacceptable that all government policies and policies in the media are just taken care of in some form of paper. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u77	Mr. President. The government's budget is a fundamental fault, and it establishes the priorities and policy of the government until the next five years. In view of this, the financial program is a real disappointment when it comes to essential infrastructure, recovery, and targeted government management. Now that financial planning is fundamental, it is clear that a greater proportion of the budget committees are not going to make any changes in their plans despite many comments. Note, there is a five - year financial plan, and it contains national expenditures of 4,800 billion. Each person sees that it is amazing that even when the committee gets the case, more of the money committee does not see why it is worth the price. Once again, the budget and the Council is working on one thing, with the execution of the European Commission and the Lawgiver acting as the Time Department of Ministers. The entrance of the left green to the government doesn't change anything. Although a financial plan is to be held by Congress, it is difficult to see what the meeting will be like except for the general conversation of members of Congress with stakeholders on a number of meetings that are actually little or no. Let's think about it. The first financial laws of Katrín's Jakobsdóttir made changes to 2,2.2% from the budget of the last government, but they had left green criticisms when they were in a position of government. The majority of the Generals then made no changes to the government's financial policy, yet 80 tips and comments from stakeholders. And now, more members of the budget do the same with financial programs, no changes despite many comments. We discussed this earlier, and it is most reprehensible that with members of Congress and particularly the majority of them did not trust to make one single change in a plan as much as the financial strategy is. What are we here for? We're not just here to stamp out the notes and plans of a minister. That is not the way it is thinking, the Constitution does not expect such work, and we need to get out of it. It is an old - fashioned minister service that we as a whole need to get away in one way or another. The five - year budget is now very swollen, together because it is, as I had the chance before, a government charge of 4,800 billion. Thus, it must be considered a significant achievement in government groups to present up such amounts but to reap almost complete dissatisfaction from stakeholders, welfare organizations, and institutions. This financial plan of the left green, forwarding, and independence groups has been called by the European Parliament for poverty and misery, the first socialist financial program at the table. The head of the Acdín's Work force is very harsh about the plan, saying that it crystallizes reality independence and that the government's lack of understanding of the affairs of low - income workers is complete. The former head director of the left green said that the financial programme will increase the discrepancies, the former Commission Vg says this, to the first financial programme Vg. In its review by the National Association of Iceland, Iceland's total labor union, says, with permission of presidents: ▪ Throughout the years, ASV has repeatedly criticized the development of government funds and held the opinion that government funds will not ensure social stability in this country. ASI has in this context previously warned about the upkeep of public activities, the weakening of essential income institutions and the neglect of social infrastructure. ASI believes that with existing financial programs, income stocks are more vulnerable to loss of the government's well - being capacity. The industrial organization has described this government's financial program as a major concern. These are local interests, but this isn't the government's place to talk. The government officials can have a warning about what we say. That is why I feel that it is important to review the comments of stakeholders who are fighting for and listening to benefits. Then the independent financial body makes serious comments to the plan and points out that include: that most of the flexibility announced in a previous financial program has now disappeared. In particular, the financial Council calls attention to the weakened income markets of the State and to the detraction. That's why it's a bad economy that's shown up in a financial program. Then, in its review, the financial Council says that if an investment in the infrastructure is left behind, it is likely to eventually come down to its production and thereby to the standard of living, as well as sustainable infrastructure. That's what the Union's all about. At that time, the Union also worries the business board with the worsening competitiveness of Iceland and stresses the need to improve both production and efficiency in many areas of Icelandic employment. Then I plan to review some of the key factors that I felt were critical of. It's interesting that in the majority of the legal committees, there's always a percentage increase from 2017. I think it's very critical, because we're talking about a plan from 20191⁄223. That is why it is only right and fair to aim for change from 2018, but the majority of the segments are in their panel at 2017. That's why he gets considerably higher percentages in the language field. Numberings here are being fooled by choosing a year earlier. It is important that a person recognizes that deception. This is important because it's about numbers, and we'll compare apples and apples with oranges and oranges. The main points that we criticize in the budget are: 1st It is put on a roof for the money that is supposed to produce child - welfare benefits and growth reforms that are not worth more than what now flows to the important development of the welfare system. This is particularly painful because it's only been a few months since the left green and that includes a representative of the left green on the budget, huh? paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, criticized the amount of money that was to be paid for the latest financial compensation, but now it is. A senator is behind a financial program with the exact equivalent of a dollar number that she criticized, which is supposed to be a child's improvement and interest. I don't understand what they're doing, especially because now they've got it. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir as part of the majority of the budget to put more on child support and interest improvements. Nothing's gonna go wrong with that, we're putting 4 billion in all interest rates, 10 billion in child support, and here we're talking about a financial plan up to 5,000 billion because it's five years old. These are disappointments and much criticism of my left - green companions. 2. The land hospital believes it needs an additional 87 billion for the next five years. Had it not been announced and promised a health - care campaign? The hospital itself says: " You do not live up to the promise you made to us. Of course, every cent in medical affairs, the increase that takes place, is what the Landskeeper says: There is a total of 87 billion. It's a gigantian number. And in its review, the Landsspike says that immediately next year 5,4 billion are missing, which is the minimum to meet the current need. This is not a major offense, and this is the land hospital himself talking. 3. The money they receive to the elderly is primarily due to increase. Happily, the elderly are growing more than the rest, people are getting older, and they hope to have a better life. The increase leading up to this class is primarily systematic, since our older citizens are growing. This was also shown in the treatment of the council, including from the highest. Health Minister, not guaranteeing enough money for nursing homes. It's no secret, and it's not a question. 4. Only 4 billion dollars are expected. increase in disability beyond the amount of money added as a result of growing in that group. This is clearly stated in the review of the Corporate Community, 4 billion apart from the increase in money. The amount of money to cover all the injections that the government groups boast of. This amount is only 1/3 of what the so - called a dollar against a dollar may cost, except for the other relics that have been called upon by the laymen. 5. The money spent in high school is only the money saved because of the decrease in school level, which had been promised in its time by a former government and is therefore not a major education, as the government groups have said. The university will receive less than half of what is said in a government contract and would be 2022. A financial program is being introduced that will account for twice as much money as the government's agreement said should be reached in 2022. That's not a big offense. The same can be said of transportation, the government has bragged about them, but the ten - year - old average of what we have been defending in that category of transportation is not even reaching the ten - year average. They are similar to the five - year average. Nobody sees a big offense, except ministers and three members of the board. There is no need for any major health, transportation, or education. There are other factors in the opinion that I will go over a little later. Most reporters said that the basis for the plan is completely unrealistic, but the criteria are important, of course. The priorities are based on the fact that there will be 13 consecutive years of economic growth. It's never happened since we studied the country. Standard economic growth is three to five years. Why should we believe that there will be a total economic growth for 13 years? And why should we assume that the cost of success remains the same? It has never been as strong as it is today, and a number of experts have told us that such a situation has always been the case with failure. The crown's success controls everything because failure will affect economic growth, tax pay, interest, inflation, personal consumption, foreign trade, etc. This is a very high premium behind a big plan. I realize that it is difficult to predict a level of currency, but in the opinion of the United States, it is quite clear that the only projections that will be fulfilled are predictions that the projections behind the plan will not be fulfilled. Let us bear that in mind, dear Senate. In my opinion and the United States, this financial program is a political illusion and a government's dream. Building a five - year plan on such a weak foundation and preconceived basis is critical. In view of the basis for this, we do not fill the public financial laws, the baseline laws on caution, stability and sustainability. Plans are to meet those criteria. We won't, and we can't. This was confirmed by an expert on the work of the Committee. It is critical that the program does not expect for forward imaging analysis, for example, what these changes, etc., because obviously our economy is unstable that we need detailed visual analysis, deviations, and the like. The financial Council, which is a unit, is critical of continuing spending as a result of significant increases in earlier years, as the income side is being weakened and the maintenance is reduced. Right men often think that maintenance is just a down payment, but that's a misunderstanding. At the same time, planning government spending may be reducing not only but also increasing the income. Too many stakeholders point out that during this period of economic elation, it is reasonable to trust the government's revenues. We won't. Thus, the economy that appeared in this program is a major concern. The plan presents a reduction in taxes, especially in the more prosperous ones, and banks. It says on page 18. 15 on budget and the highest. The secretary of finance confirmed this in the media yesterday. It stands to lower the income tax by 1 percent. That's $14 billion. How do they number 14 billion? A million dollars a man has a three times higher tax reduction than the person on the lowest income. This is a flat reduction in income tax. It is not fair to split taxes in this way. Is it really a matter of priority for the left green, the forward party and the Independence Party to reduce the bank tax by 7 billion? Is that what we're supposed to start with? That's the priority on the tax business. The program offers a further reduction in taxes, especially in material and banking, as expenses increase, but there is still a promise that the infrastructure is betrayed. These three are very conflicting, in our opinion, in the United States, and very peculiar. It is noted in many places that this poor economy, especially of the Independence Party, can increase in equality and can also result in the need for growth. If the government's budget is failing, the money policy needs to come in and get financial benefits from the Federal Bank is to increase interest if the financial budget is not well maintained. Therefore, the Icelandic public is going to go through the government's bankruptcy policies based on the bread - crumbling theory and shortsightedness. It's very interesting to examine the combination. Compatibility is actually just the consumption of the government, part of the national product. During the next five years, it is expected that the consumption of the combination will decrease slightly as a proportion of land production. This is especially surprising, since the left green took special steps when the last financial plan was discussed and criticized. They said that there is truly reason to increase the consumption, since much official infrastructure is needed. The modern prime minister pointed out that increasing consumption is also logical, since the nation's age combinations are changing. She arranged for this in her talk. Now you sit left green here behind me -- and what happens? The consumption is reduced at their posts as a percentage of land production. It will be noted in a financial program that the continuation requirement for government institutions is laid out. Overall, the cumulative continuation period is 56 billion. In fact, the years 2019,2021 include hospitals, clinics, aging institutions, and schools. Left greens, then, criticized hospital maintenance requirements 15 minutes ago. Why set a minimum requirement for school? In their own financial program, it is clearly stated that these institutions are preserved. This calls attention to the reading of financial programs and shows that there is little interference in society. So, we're always dejected as critics of the mismatch that the Gini factor is quite positive to Iceland. The Gini constant measures income equations. We're talking about property equations. There are two differences. We're talking about property equations, and the Gini doesn't take care of him. In view of his possessions, he is the greatest in Iceland of the European nations. He's even tall in the North. Today, the five richest percent of Icelanders have almost as much of the pure possessions of the population as the 95 percent. One percent, let's just remind the group of the richest Icelanders have more assets than 80% of Icelanders own. This trend continues, for in 2016 the richest ten percent took half of all clean possessions to them. BSRB has noted that the tax burden of the largest earnable groups has increased most, compared with the rest of the population. It's not addressed here, and if something is gone the other way, because IRS is so stupid. It is so unfair that there is a lack of income tax, rather than something else. I hope the government's review of those promises. I thought it was the highest. Secretary of finance confirms that it is not, just yesterday. Still, the fishing costs are only 1% of the government's income. We've been talking about hunting costs and resource fees in this room. One of the principal resources in the New World Translation is the fish stocks in the sea. What owner would agree to get about 1% of their primary resources? The public of the United States is made to do that. Two, three years ago, salmon and trout fishermen, fishers and salmon fishers, about half, about 2.5 billion, paid at the same time as workers paid $5 billion. You see the bullshit here, that the developers pay only about twice as much as the salmon and trout fishermen did a few years ago. And further gifts are being made to the council for taxacons. The most serious political news I've been hearing over and over again is that no more is expected in the children's recovery system. The government groups have already put roofs on child support, and a couple with one child will get no child support if both parties have 470 points. K. In income or more. It's not high-priority people who have 470 you. K. in a month's pay, but the system has passed so it doesn't get pedophiles, so it's.4 out of the child-replacement system. Why do we not trust that system? There are a lot of people who have to rely on child support, and this is not the big mail in the state's budget. The same can be said for growth improvements. The last time half of the interest paid to grow, when the United States was in government, it's out of system because of the damage. I'd like to recall that last time the Conspiracy was in the government, we set up 100 billion dollars. in child reforms, and interest improvements in the terms of the season. The United States set up a group of 100 billion dollars, along with their companions. in child support and interest improvements. Here is where basic opinions of the political parties come in crystal. It is critical that we do not see money in a longer birth rush, even though the amount is being adjusted. It is in the Treaty's covenant to extend the ore, which requires a coin to be brought into it. Then, the amount that runs into a regular rented apartment should be dropped by half. Is that the time? Is the situation at the housing market so that the State can say: Yes, we're going to put twice as much money into it as before? I often wondered in what world the governments, the Ministers, and the members of the council are willing to live in. It has long been called for further financial support for the poor and the elderly. I've already mentioned that the extras are enough. These are primarily due to increase in this group but are dosed to meet other factors. The contract says, with President's permission: During this period, the cost of nursing may be primarily due to the increase in pensioners. All right, then they know older citizens watching this that the increase in financial schemes is mainly due to an increase in the number of them. No injection, construction, investment, or any other form of lifting the ideals are in progress, as it were chosen, and all political groups said at a meeting after their meeting. I mentioned that in the next five years, high school gets almost the same dollar number. Although this centenarian number is greater than today, because it has been taken a whole year from high school, it is a promise made. It was always to allow the shorthand to be in the high school system. This led to the Teacher Union's discussion with the Committee on the budget. Then it's college. This is important because the goal is measurable. It was going to reach the OECD target and it's going to cost 6.7 billion. According to a government contract, it was to be reached by 2020. What does a financial plan make possible? Less than half of that amount to 2023. And notice, there's the funding in the construction of the Blisk and, quite a few things, because I like to review, it's only last year that the current prime minister expressed his concern that part of the extra money running to the university would really be stock costs. She said that there is no point in improving education in the country. The total number that the government class boasts of setting up for the lawsuit - the money just enough for that place. Let's go over health. They're the group of paintings most of the voters put the most emphasis on. I'll be honest with you. In fact, when a financial program arrived, I thought that the government was going to fulfill the promises with a very intense injection into health matters. That's how it was introduced. In any case, I can say that we were surprised at a financial committee when the presidents of the Land Hospital came to us and said that the aims of the plan were not funded and that it really was 87 billion years short. We were all surprised. There's a lot of problems here. If we split it in five years, there are over 17 billion, which is not a small amount. Next year alone, it takes about 5.4 billion, which is the minimum. This is from Land Hospital. It may well be that the government groups are taking my case in advance, viewing me as a black - minded government opposition, which is taken directly from the direction of the Land Hospital. It's very peculiar. A financial plan also arranged for a major transport application, as I could only in my introduction. There were so many offenses, I don't know how many people were talked about. There was to be a big increase in all aspects, and there was still no big attendance on the nation. I know there's 5,000 billion there that go into something, I realize it, but people are being fooled to think that this is a big hurry to a big offense when the money that runs into these important classes cannot meet this need, and however, what has been promised is out of harmony. Let's go over the IRS. Many of the financial committees said that the tax policy was not well thought of. I agree with that. The cumulative impact of tax change on the budget is about 24.5 billion. That's a lot of money, and we in the United States think we can make it better. I used to be about a percentage reduction in income taxation, and some members of the management team have only changed their language and talk about innuendo. The priority is to reduce income taxes by 1 percent. I even have a cornea about the Ministry of Economics, which says in direct words: A 1-point reduction in the tax rate at lower level is expected to be a 1-point reduction. It's not unclear. It's fine if it's changed and I hope it's changed, but it shouldn't be said otherwise. It says in the government plan, and I thought it was the best. Secretary of the budget confirms that there is still room to lower the income tax flat. Then there's the bank tax, 7 billion. The bank tax will someday upstairs. I realize that, but I wondered if now is the time to reduce the tax to a bank of 7 billion. I know this is a peculiar tax, but this is the right time when they need the money the nation calls for in college, college, hospitals, disability, senior citizens, etc.? This discussion will include a group of ten adjustment proposals. We want to change the budget. Of course, we do not provide a fully developed financial program, but we offer ten adjustments. It costs about 23 billion, and we're going to finance it in a simple way. 14 billion should go to the loss of income taxes, the flat, the 7 billion should go to the bank tax, and then we want to eliminate the tax tax tax catathesis that gives us 2.7 billion. BSRB, ASI, and others have called this action against equality and 93% of the same taxation to men's income hairs, so I'm going to rip it up. The Union's declarations are fully financed. And then we have a plan for our committee party, we can increase income farms; increased resource costs, increased income from tourists, carbon expenditures, capital tax, wealth taxes. Just as financial advisers called for, there are various roads to be taken without compromising to secure the government's revenues. Only political will is missing. He was with the left green six months ago, and then he disappeared from receiving three ministers. Just how much money do three Ministers have to be? I can't figure it out. [[Taken out to: 2%.]] Yes, I realize quite -- I'll be perfectly reasonable, men have to do compromises, I realize that left green and independent people had to make compromises, but it can be done sooner. [[Up front.]] It's so pathetic that it doesn't talk. Like child support, it's not that much. Why not just land hospital and child support? The two things would have made the difference for many people, but there are no changes, status quot but are only addressed to it as the highest. Bjarni Benediktsson says we have a financial minister. It's just stamped. The Council of Arnagil wants it this way, senators in this hall, no problem, stamping it out. It's amazing because it doesn't have to be like that. I realize that the state fund can't do everything for everyone, but it can do a little more with fairer tax policy and more righteous infrastructure. [[The president calls.]] Last year, the prime minister said: "In the United States, poor people are not to be asked for justice. Sadly, a financial plan confirms that the government is doing just that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u78	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson had a big fire speech here. It's fine, it's nice to listen. He was told about a tax system. In that so - called aluminium program. A senator has submitted to an existing financial programme suggests that the Conspiracy wants a step - by - step tax, making a two - fold contribution for the budget, and then promoting the balance of income. By permission of the highest power. President, says the word: Then the Union has wanted to reevaluate the gaps between tax steps, increase the tax steps, and ensure a fair contribution from more income - greater groups and major people to the community through the tax system. All of this is good and good. But this is the only way that humans can contribute to a fairly accurate image and an accurate idea of what they're going to do and how they're going to have the tax system, so I ask for it. A senator informs the level of the highest taxprofen should be, at which limit of income should be set, and at how many intervals. A senator intends that the tax step should be done. In other words, how complicated is the tax system to be, who should be the lowest taxprofent, and when should it be considered? A senator, that it is natural for a person to start paying taxes, of what salary? What is the limit?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u79	First of all, I think we need to understand the purpose of the tax system. It is, on the other hand, to raise money for a government fund and, on the other hand, to increase the equation. We may disagree with that approach. Some people, and I might think it's a bit of a drive-by. A senator, thinking that the tax system has only one purpose, to raise a government fund. I don't agree with that. Steps may be more, I might mention three, four. Where the income limit should be exactly, I can't say here and now, in a minute an answer, far from the top, but still more steps. [[Up front.]] We need to think about the character discount, he's been sitting down, and I think it's a what. A senator may agree with me on this matter. But he must agree with me that we must be able to distribute these 14 billion more. But because of him. A senator calls for an accurate tax policy from me, and I call back: "What's the fiscal tax policy? [[Answer the question.]] I'm not putting up a financial plan. Are you planning to reduce income tax by one percentage, or are you going to lower the income tax by one percentage? [[Up front.]] You're talking against each other.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u80	It hasn't been decided yet. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u81	It hasn't been decided. Why not? The minister of finance said yesterday that this was one percentage of a flat decline, on page. 15 of your financial plan. [[Up front.]] Besides, I think you're running away from it. [[Up front.]] Don't you think it's minimum that you're accurate in your plan? That's the first step, isn't it? You can see that the left green and independents speak two tongues in this regard. [[Up front.]] This is the biggest tax change you've ever made. I still don't know if you're going to have a flat shrink or not. Are you going to change your character discount, or aren't you? First, answer the basic question before I begin to tell you whether the tax level should be 42%, 46%, or 48%. But I'm quite available in that discussion. [[Foreground: You're sitting for answers.]] I just answered. [[Up front.]] ... answers that you please? [[Take it up: "An answer to you."]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u82	Mr. President. It's amazing. A senator does not trust to answer. But all right, I'm just going to review that in 2003, the question was critical. A member of the Independence Party for canceling the high income tax so called 5%. [[Up front.]] 5% of the income at that point was about 350. K, which is a value of about Seven hundred pence. today. At that time, the income tax score was 38.55%, then 5% on top. Now the highest level is about 46%, 46.24%, and less than 894 you are. K. He thought 700 of you. K. which carries a high income tax, a special income tax, stress, 5%, would be too much tax. And he's here in a Senate speech saying that the Conspiracy's attitude is very clear, contrary to the high income tax. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's no wonder I want to know, chief. President, what's the Union policy and who's heading for it? A senator when it comes to earning an individual's income tax? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think it's strange and odd that the senator fails to comment directly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u83	It's directed to the president. Councilmen respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u84	A respectable president. I think it's kind of unfair to expect me to be able to give a minute or two minutes in return to mention the exact number. I'll just be honest with you that I'm not ready to mention the exact number of your tax steps. I'm in favor of a high income tax, I'll try to be as clear as I can. The high income tax currently, the upper level, to more than 47%, covers approximately 53/4 10% of wage candidates. On the other hand, we see... [[Up front.]] Yeah. I don't want a high-priced tax that actually works like a fictitious tax, that's where we agree, must agree. Yet, here we see people with very high wages. We see people with maybe 2 million a week. It's a group we can tax more than that. I'll be as clear as I can: we're supposed to be able to tax more, especially in view of our lack of money in the woods as a class of whales. Similarly, a senator has been calling for. We also need to consider the personal discount, the tax limit, and then we have a problem. A senator wrote a number of articles I welcome in the Morning newspaper on how to revise the personal discount system. [[The president calls.]] Then let's talk about it. But the point is, we have to be able to tax the rich more because we need more medicine. [[The president calls.]] We must agree in one way or another, even though we do not agree on everything in politics.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u85	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. He does much, as he often does when he comes here for a talk, and it's a good thing. It is always fun to listen to those who are hot and burn for what they are saying and interesting to listen to them at the same time. While there is nothing new, a senator has to offer. That's what we've heard since the winter he's been in the Lady Allali. Hv. A senator suggests an increase of less than 3%, I think. He gave us a lot of criticism when we put up our schedule. All right. I disagree with him that having fewer than 180 billion investments in health matters is not a major offense, though we can always do better. At our meeting on a budget board, U.S.A. presidents told us that it was not a wish list but that it was an attempt to evaluate financial goals. It is not the same as any other science. It says much about the fact that we need to make it even more transparent. But talking about increase to causes of heartburn, e.g. to the health minister's subject, which is about 19% in the season, if not, that's unfair coverage, then. Senator. We are talking about nearly 9 billion in hospital service. And this is a beginning, we can't do everything at once. We are also talking about the things that are going to be done, the subsidies that are reduced in time, and other factors, of course, that benefit everyone who needs to be treated. I wanted to ask you what. Because we've been highly criticized for the housing: The proposal of the Council for the United States is 2,25 to 30 billion, according to the European Union's opinion. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Why didn't you suggest that?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u86	Mr. President. Hv. A senator says there's nothing new in my language, and that's right, there's nothing new in it. It's the same language I had when we handled the budget. It's the same language I had when we took care of financial policy. And this is the same presentation as I have now that we're talking about a financial plan. This financial plan, policy, and budget are so contrary to what the left of the green said right before elections, including those of the U.S.A. on child benefits. Of course, in terms of land hospital, I welcome every cent in the medical field. I'm not saying there's no money in that suit, but I'm referring to what the governors of the Land Hospital say. I'll just mention it here. The 2018 Land Hospital budget is 2 billion lower than 2008, on solid prices. Hv. A senator doesn't have to believe me. They say it's missing in the next five years about 87 billion accumulated. In case of a moment. A senator doesn't think my presentation is fair, but she doesn't think it's fair. This is from Land Hospital, this is their assessment. Government senators boast that they are great, but if it's 87 billion short, it's not a big offense. But I'll be reasonable. As I mentioned at the outset, I thought the government was keeping his word for a health - care campaign. That's why I was very surprised to see such a big number. But I haven't seen anything. Councilmen are driving that number down. The land hospital says that the minimum is 5.4 billion. Why don't we get together about one thing? Let's start with that. I know we can't do everything for everybody. Why is that? A senator is not prepared to accept our proposal of 5.4 billion to the hospital, to get the minimum? I'm not asking for 87 billion. Why don't we just start at 5.4 billion? That's what I'm talking about. A senator for that? I know she agrees with me in her heart. Now she's got the power, she's in the big part. Let's all agree to put 5.4 billion in the Land Hospital for at least the minimum it was called after. [[The president calls.]] Well, then I haven't even started talking about a big offense, so let's start with the minimum.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u87	A respectable president. It is worth reminding us that the presidents of the Land Hospital have not spoken down the suggestions presented here. I recollect what was said when they arrived: this was an attempt to evaluate the objective of a financial program, these 87 billion. If the senator cares so much about improving and changing, despite the minimum, why not go all the way? Where to Stop? Why stop at the minimum? Is that enough to help you? A senator thinks it's a big offense, an inside push, or something? The party's setting up $1 billion for road construction. Still, it specifically states that only 41% of what is needed are spoken of in the national budget, but it also adds to a billion. Why? What should we say is good? What's enough? When have we reached the pain limit, etc.? We can talk about it forever. But action must follow words, and the Conspiracy contributes only to a small degree, according to its own language - talking about criticizing left greens - in accordance with that. Senator, et cetera. ... hada word about it. And I could take another ten answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u88	Mr. President. Yeah, I specifically said we couldn't do everything for everybody right now. I realize that, and I said so. I realize that the government needed to compromise. We have a adjustment of 23 billion. Since they're so pathetic and small, why can't you agree to them? Of whom can we not agree on taking the steps to take at least the minimum? [[Up front.]] I'm not saying that the Landsaholic gets 87 billion, that would be irresponsible. I'm telling you, we can put 5.4 billion in the Land Hospital, 3 billion on child support... we can start this thing off. [[Why not 7.6?]] If it's so small and pathetic, then it'll be easy for you. A senator pressing the yes button, since it's so very small, that's 23 billion more than your addition, to which the government boasts. Why don't we start with that? Since it doesn't matter, why don't we start with that? The amount of money, 23 billion, is important. Of course, every billion is important. Of course, we are not making a complete financial program; we are criticizing the main points, such as the dog. When a senator criticized the financial program of the last government, she did so himself. [[The president calls.]] Let's start somewhere and agree on what we agree on and go together.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u89	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur Ágústsson's Auguste for his speech and suggestions on the opinion of the committee 2 less part of a government budget. Hv. A senator took note of the main points of a committee party with great enthusiasm, that must be said. I can agree on a lot of things. A senator when it comes to social reform. Right away. A senator, on the other hand, speaks of deception. Hv. A senator mentioned in the context that the work of the Committee was being compared in 2017; it's just to get a comparison in both directions, that's obvious. We're not supposed to talk like that. I have to get to it. I totally understand the political viewpoint. Hv. At the same time, a senator debates that the majority of the items do not suggest a change. This may well be a practical plan; it is realistic that the government's plans here appear from a government covenant for the structure referred to and established in that covenant. We must appreciate it from that. If we had disagreed with that, we could have made some changes. All we can say is that this is a practical program that is due for the next five years.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u90	Mr. President. Yeah, maybe I'll fly out here because I know that a lot of chairs agree with me. That's why I'm a little upset that we don't just show it up. This isn't about political credit, not about the right or the left. Why do we not simply take the steps that we agree on? I'm imagining what's happened. A senator would have wanted to see more money at the university. You know how I know? Because he wrote down a government contract that expected twice as much money at the university. Now he's following up a financial program that puts only half the money in there. Why were the financial goals of the government covenant, which are now only six months old, not put in there? I know why. A senator could have done so without getting iced. But I know that the freckles of the Ministers and the officials have been through here, and that's sad to say. Regarding the illusion: If we look at the views of the greater part, at the back of each subject field, there will always be an increase in the subject range from 2017 to 2023, about X%, so many billion. Why is 2017 so important? It's going to be 2018. The plan is for 20191⁄223. I think that's an illusion. Hv. A senator gets bigger numbers if it's from 2017 instead of 2018. [[Up front.]] That's what I think--I won't call it an illusion, I'll pull it back. People are getting dust in their eyes. I find this to be critical, even though it is not a big deal. People can only calculate the number from 2018, but I don't think it's the right thing to do. I can compare that with the budget plan of the previous government. We can see a difference between the recovery of this financial program and the financial program proposed by the restoration, that represents 0.2% of national production. It was a plan that the left green and forwarding team criticized that, in view of 2018, there was little ambition and a disturbance of conservativeness and right policy - 0.2% change in survival.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u91	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ágúst Ágús Ólafur of Ágústsson answered. I'd also like to point out with regard to the Communicator debate that we are in the package of a comparison of 2010. When we feel that it is appropriate, we take a comparison in both directions. It has some kind of information, so simple it is. I think it's too much when you link it to deception. It's not. I would also like to point out that financial programs are reviewed annually. There are a number of tips, both from the majority and from the smaller parts, and then from the committee as a group. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson was the idea, who were discussed in the committee and seen in all opinions of more parts and smaller parts. Thanks to that. I'm going to finish this talk with the positive.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u92	Mr. President. I've been screaming enough here, I'm not going to get excited, and I'm just going to agree on what was agreed on at the Committee, i.e. for the collective proposal of a larger and smaller section of the indication for the officials of the format and installation. It matters, I'm not going to belittle it at all. But I'm critical of the politics. I know why. A senator can stand it and everyone in this room. I'm criticizing the politics about the university, the baby insurance, the hospital, etc. We're not sure about that. I still think there's less of a difference than it looks. But the actions speak. Of course, we should rejoice over what is well done. And again, I welcome every crown that enters the infrastructure. By placing money on public infrastructure, we increase production in one way or another and improve the standard of living.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u93	The president would pray for respect when she arrived in the chair. This was a mistake, and we are not offering a vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u94	Madam President. I hereby recommend a panel of Article 3 of the legal committee's contribution to the budget of the government of 2019-2023. I also recommend a change of plans to the same plan. I'm gonna start off with a little bit of economic leadership. The government's budget is saying that there is a great increase in government spending. Expenditures are expected to increase during the period by 26%. Experience shows that government spending has almost unsurpassedly increased over the anticipated period. As a result, it is very important to avoid future exit vehicles. At the same time, the tax reductions expected to decrease by 1% in income taxation rates, below steps. The association of these two factors has never given much advantage, and it must be considered irresponsible during times of economic rest. The budget is based on economic growth, which is without any precedent. Section 3 agrees with Iceland's clientship, which in its review says that the financial programme shows up an increasing lack of financial resources, over-suspecting assumptions, and a high level of public activity. The budget report states: The population that measures the relative prices in Iceland relative to abroad also reached a peak in the middle of 2017 and is still very high in historical terms. Once they have walked to a similar level, they have left without exception. In spite of this, however, a rising incidence in the years that clearly violates the baseline security standards of public finances is expected. As a result, the high spending rate based on unprecedented economic developments seems to also violate the safeness of the law. In recent years, there has been a large rise in the economy of the population, a large part of which is due to growth in transport transport. In spite of the growing importance of the national industry, it is difficult to discern its impact on the planned strategy and on key economics, its implications for producing economic growth and thus the survival of the official next losses. There is a lack of a closer relationship between growth in tourism, economic growth, and government income. It should be said in the review of the Industrial Association that economic leaders in the financial program are far too optimistic. We're seeing signs of less tension. The budget is too much to watch, unfortunately, long - term predictions have been very poor in its fulfillment. More attention should be given to whatinvestment is providing and how they affect the economy. It will increase economic production if the internalinvestors were better divided over the financial programme period. It will affect the warming of the economy if we enter theinvestment within a short period of time. Economic development for just one year and at least five years of age, is a source of uncertainty as the financial agenda takes place. Thus, it is not only beneficial but also essential that governments tell us how to establish priorities, whether economic developments become more economically or worse. That is why the plan is not being planned, so it has to be considered a major problem. Governments must be able to adjust the course of each year based on the economic trends. The laws on public finances require that the policy displayed in the financial programme include transparency, but this is essential for readers to understand how to explain the financial background. A smaller portion of 3 suggests that the presentation does not meet those criteria. For example, for example, the tourist service is expected to be about 1.4 billion dollars. This year, but planned investment expenditures are only about 700 million. K. There are limited data on investment priorities. It cannot be seen that it meets transparency criteria. It is lacking in increased and more extensive stability. Businesses need to work on a very unstable environment. As we know, the economy is a small, fluctuated system. Thus, there is a need to ensure biodiversity in the economy. In the joint indications of the budget management committee, it has to be more detailed. In this regard, a smaller 3rd will add that in the budget, there is not much difference between what goes on and what goes on in investments. There is no clear distinction as is made in the financial account. The production must be in such a way that there is no misunderstanding. Mr. President. Before I reach individual mercenaries or topic areas, I'm going to review the adjustment proposal. It goes on to show that there will be a special improvement in the legal development of the state of the Southnes; the Southnes Institute for Health; the director of the Police Department of the Southnes; and Southnes University. It is suggested that at the time of the government budget of 2019-2023, a special contribution will be made to the legal development of the state of the Southnes to a total of 700 million. K. This is what the South American Institute of Health, HSS, will produce a special amount of 93 billion. K. Each year and at the office of the Southern Sheriff of the Police Department, there will be an increase of 40 million. K. every year. Southneso High School will make a special transition of 35 million. K. to finish school expansion and funding in this regard. The budget for the Theocratic Ministry School comes as a payment in 2020. There is no condemnation of population growth in Southnes. During the past six years, the number of people in the South has increased by 22%, the number of foreign citizens has tripled, and the increase in the number of lovers has increased. Today, a number of foreign residents in the South are 20%. In Smokejanestown, general population population increased by 9% in 2017. In the north, growth sites may be defined as being more than 1.5% per year. Southnes have the largest population population population in the country. The growth of foreign citizens in the region can be explained along with the increased need for labor, especially as a result of international airport activity. Over the years, government contributions to legal institutions in the South have been lower than those in other parts of the country. South American communities have searched for explanations and correction from governments but have failed. Southern population growth has been far beyond the average growth in the whole country, but the increase in the government's contribution to the institutions and projects in the region has not been in any way correlated with this trend. The government must ensure that funding for legal projects on the Southnes to which they are responsible is in proportion to comparable national institutions and also follow the unprecedented population growth in the region; otherwise, it is headed for disaster. Compared with local health institutions, the Southnes'health institutions have the lowest financial budget for each individual citizen. It is important to increase the number of health care professionals, especially doctors and nurses, in order to meet the existing need for service. In addition, the HSS needs to be funded. The unprecedented population growth in Southnes calls for an increase in law enforcement, both in the U.S. and in the police department. In 2007, a year's work in the Southnes police department was 46. In 2017, there were 40. As a result, as the number of inhabitants and foreign workers grew, so has the number of years of years decreased, as well as the number of tourists and refugees and refugees, as mentioned earlier. When it comes to security, all of this affects the citizens. The University of Southnesa in the United States is expected to make a special deposit of 35 million. K. that funding may be completed for the enlargement of the school, as previously indicated. This is essential in order to meet an increasing number of students in the years that follow. It is suggested that this special addition to the legal institutions of the South American government be financed from a government fund. In 2006, the Cheflavor International Development Society was established to establish properties that the State replaced by the U.S. Army in civilian use, with the greatest positive influence on the community, the Southnesin. When evolutionist society took over, they were assessed at 46.5 billion dollars. and was largely looked to for expense on their sales. Approximately 95% of the property is being sold today. Their estimated total value is about 18 billion dollars. The pure income of the estate is about 10 billion dollars. Which is far beyond your original expectations. Incomes of the sale of goods have come directly to the state's budget, not to projects on the Southnes. So here it is suggested that 7% of the state's clean income from the sale go to the legal institutions of the state of the South. The reason is the unprecedented population growth in the region and the necessary adjustment of the legal donations made by the State Fund to the former institutions, as previously traced. Madam President. Then I'm going to step aside to a number of lawsuits as we have time. I just want to come into my job. The financial programme expects a reduction in insurance spending by 0.25 percentages in 2019, from 6.85% to 6.6%. This is a positive step. The central category has stressed that insurance spending should be reduced by a further or a percentage of 0.5 points. Moved the squad, even. the change it made in the last budget. The climate is due to a decline in unemployment and the good status of the state funds as well as a promise made by the state of state on such a reduction in the type of collective agreements made in 2016. The insurance bill is still 1.5 percentage points higher than it was ten years ago and is particularly heavy on small companies, e.g. Technological and innovation enterprises, where pay costs are relatively higher than in larger companies. The financial agenda has little to say about the impact of increasing trials on the competitiveness of the economy in general. It also does not comment on the effect of increasing trials on the demand of foreign tourists and how this interaction will affect government income. In a financial program, it is claimed that changes in the tax environment over the last few years have benefited individuals and have contributed to a significant increase in financial gain. This does not apply to micro-energy pensioners and other underpayers. The financial programme, however, lists a 1% decrease in income taxation rate at lower levels, as mentioned earlier. Such a reduction means a pensioner with less than 2,400 bucks. decrease as long as the salary is more than 839 you have. K. Within nine thousand dollars a month. decrease. This action on its own results in an inequities. If there is a decrease in income tax, the reduction must be extended in such a way that it will benefit best from the lowest wage. Rather, it should be emphasized the importance of increasing personality discounts rather than the reduction in income taxation rate that has little to foretell for people with the lowest income. An increase in personal payoff is much more useful to underpayers than a decrease in tax percentage. An increase in personal discount is a simple and efficient way to improve the minimum paid, to increase the equation, and not to interfere with the tax system. In 2018, taxpayers pay income taxes from earnings over 145 of you. K. or more than that in a month. This needs to be changed and it would be natural to have a 300-point taxation limit. K. per month. That would be a huge improvement to the lowest paid. One of the main reasons for the increase in tax burden, especially in underpayers, is that personality discount has not been accompanied by pay development. A person's discount is the most powerful influence on the income of a fixed amount. Thus, a significant rise would be an improvement for low - income workers. The financial program does not allow for an increase in personality discount beyond the legal value of it. Madam President. Next, I'm going to take over the agricultural business. There is evidence that the government's apathy in agriculture is not mentioned at any part of the budget. May 1st. The Icelandic government's customs contract went into effect with the European Union. The agreement will have a far - reaching effect on Icelandic agricultural production. There was no assessment of the impact of the contract on domestic agricultural production, as well as the agreement with the national farm interest group in Iceland was not much or nothing. The National Farmers Association is deeply concerned about the contract, and it concluded that the contract should be canceled. No counter measures have been performed on the part of the government to reduce the loss of income and income that farmers face. There is no statement in the financial programme on specific support to agriculture due to the impact of the contract on domestic agricultural production. Clearly, then, the government is not interested in the interests of Icelandic agriculture. This is further reflected in the steady decline of agricultural contributions over the next five years or in the duration of the programme, from 16 billion dollars. In 2019 to 15.4 billion dollars. in 223 C.E. Next time, I'd just like to step on the transport issues. A major campaign of transportation is being proclaimed on the part of the government, but it has to be said at the moment that it is more historically compared. More money is needed forever. The accumulated problem in the highway system is some 70 billion dollars. and 50 in the rural road system. While there must be an increase in funds for this important category, methodology is critical, as is the need to finance a section of the campaign by contribution from the common reserve, the legal reserve. The sea is mainly designed to provide a stream of unexpected and unexpected expenses, e.g. Because of a natural disaster. This sets a bad example for the use of reserves. Transporters need to set more priorities. In view of their national interests, profit needs to be considered. It's just learning. The exchange of funds in the budget is balanced by school levels. According to the Treaty of the Government, the government offers large educational campaigns with the interests of students and the nation under control, but it does not mean that there is enough money to follow those promises. The budget shows that, based on population estimates, the number of students at the preschool and elementary school will leave 72 of you. Students this year on nearly 78 of yours. in the year 2022. So there is great concern that expenses do not follow this vast number and this important issue. It is vital that the increased money spent on the education of disabled children and young ones along with special needs for young people to have the same opportunities as for others. Interestingly, it is emphasized that students complete a school exam at their scheduled time, which may be difficult for students to do. It is not apparent that contributions to special instruction and support are being increased to meet this increased demand. The financial program shows that both teaching ability and practical knowledge need to be guided by innovation and development and to make sure that teachers are qualified. Nowhere is there any action that contributes to the appropriate adjustment of students to ensure that equal opportunities for study are available. According to the plan, a review of the Icelandic Board of Education, LIN, and a development of a learning system was conducted that access to university education is independent of the economy, habitats and other circumstances and is specifically maintained for sex and equality. A review of the LIN law is a big issue for a large group of people. In order to promote a better and improved course of study, students who can demonstrate a full course of study have the right to a scholarship to further the school during the course of the year. There must be a careful step to the ground. It is important to ensure that subsidies do not result in the growth of student loans. The level of student loans is important when it comes to low - paying jobs. All of this needs to be considered in the review of the law. Government contracts announce the continuation of industry, engineering, and technology. However, action was lacking on how to achieve the desired result. Much more is involved in promoting industrial research and art. There is no point in financial contributions. Clearly, a powerful university degree, the bridge from trade to college, is one of the most important reasons for increasing the interest and attendance of students to high school for work and work. The budget does not include any development of professional college education, nor does it say how to promote secondary education in high school. Industrial education must be made more accessible. Industrial education is a practical education and a global one and it also provides. access to foreign work. The environment needs to adjust its view that this is not a second - rate study. Sadly, in the budget, donations for the education of workers who have not studied are limited. I want to move only next time to the state level of government and settlement. The General agreed, in crosspolitic terms, to a recent law on the services of disabled people with long - term needs, called the NAP law. All services to disabled persons must be upgraded to new laws where there is a higher level of service expected than in the old law and that the needs of disabled people are better met, e.g. Regarding family life, leisure activities, and participation in society. In terms of financial programmes, it can be concluded that there is no significant increase in funding due to the law, except for a set factor mentioned in the bill and that is not sufficient to fulfill the obligation of public members which are created by the law's service expansion. It is important that this should be corrected so as not to allow unnecessary care between users and rural partners. It is important that the state meets as closely as possible with rural society in terms of the cost of NAPA services to eliminate any potential discrimination on the basis of farms. In this regard, it can be noted that in the review of the Quantum Community's budget, there are up to 300 million additional financial resources in the state. K. Each year, people's legal rights to NPA would be guaranteed. The rise in carbon costs is especially based on the fact that the population in rural areas has to drive a long distance from work. Carbon charge was raised at the beginning of 2018 by 50%, but costs are expected to rise by 10% in 2019 and again by 10% in 2020. It is expected that the increase will give the State Fund some 600 million. K. every year. With a carbon charge on fuel, there is a difference. continuing to encourage energy exchange, e.g. electric car trouble. However, there is still limited electrical infrastructure today. Besides, it's not as good as anyone's to buy a new electrical vehicle. So much increase in carbon costs will put an increased burden on individuals who are less able to change their lifestyle, including those on the other side. because of budget or poor infrastructure. Next time, I want to move on to the premises. There are difficult conditions at a housing market, and a large number of individuals live under an unacceptable housing standard. It's the temperature of the camp loans, about 50 of them. individuals are in a rented market, and of these are largely low in income, and young people are in great numbers. According to an apartment loan report, tenants are less able to store up savings and low income tenants usually have burdensome housing costs and have to pay more than 50% of their rented provisions. This is the highest percentage in the North. Conditions such as this contribute to the inequality of tenants have not improved. In 2015 the government signed an agreement with the labor movement to recommence the structure of social housing by building 2,300 apartments at a maximum of 600 apartments per year. These contributions have been shown not to be sufficient to build these 600 apartments annually. This is not to be expected or expected from the financial programme for the coming years to meet the normal increase in construction costs for these projects. The financial programme then assumes that despite the urgent need for more apartments, large amounts of donations will be reduced for the general population. Iceland's Common Association has emphasized the need to build at least 1,000 apartments a year to meet these needs, but donations need to be raised by 2,400 million. K. every year. More generalized apartments are the best solution to the worst housing group and contribute to a stable and healthy housing market. The government must act in a decisive way to solve the problem of housing. The budget says: ▪ What social reform is emphasised on identifying and achieving a common understanding of the significance of social stability. In this regard, there will be emphasis, including Set up a housing case This noble goal is false, as it is seen that the government is bringing a large cutout on housing support in the financial program. Next time I'd like to step in on child development. It is vital that social stability is maintained and the growth reform system has been necessary to meet the low income levels. In recent years, a group of low - income workers, including microenergy pensioners, have not received interest benefits despite paying off their mortgages. In general, however, real - estate assessments have increased dramatically over the past few years, particularly in the capital area and in the neighboring communities. The rise in property institutions has not been consistent with an increase in real estate evaluations and real estate prices. As a result, the number of interest paid is greatly reduced, and this also applies to the poor. In this case, the State's authority must act by means of a targeted action, e.g. by increasing the number of property institutions and by reducing the level of income reduction. The financial programme says that growth reform support will actually be maintained throughout the programme. What a disappointment that is! Next thing I want to do, I want to go to the bank tax, as well as the financing tax. According to the financial plan, the government intends to reduce a special bank tax of up to 7.3 billion dollars. and there will be a decline in four steps. In view of the fact that the government's priorities are somewhat strange, especially since it does not intend to improve the ideals of the worst - set groups of society, such as disability and the elderly. A reduction in the number of taxes is a means of benefit. Especially the owners of Arion banks that are the hedge fund. During the New Year's period, income taxes increased from 20% to 22%. The middle tribe resisted this rise. If the government's aim was to level the tax burden of any source of income, it is more appropriate to reduce capital taxes than to raise it. The tax suffers ill at the hands of older people, who may include some of them. wants to rent out her house. This means putting a stone in the streets of people who have both the will and the ability to rent out houses at times when there is no such thing. In view of the time, I have not been able to review all the groups I had planned, but I would like to mention the travel service and, of course, health care. It may have the biggest news on Ring Road. The middle class has opposed their plans and feels that it is more natural and practical to build a new national hospital in a new place. I would've liked to come in on the men's business too. A financial agenda assumes stability. However, there is evidence that instability is ahead of us because of the wastes that have taken place in the labor movement recently, and there is a change in the position within the movement. New bosses and new generations are taking over. There is now evidence that action is already under consideration. People don't realize what could happen. Therefore, it is necessary to have room for these situations. Sadly, the reserve has been established, as I mentioned regarding the unwise transport program. Finally, Madam President, the financial program under government law is to show goals, standards, and measures in a clear manner. However, this does not work properly on my third share. So it's not transparent. Opacity exists between investments and other investments. However, there are positive points in the schedule, such as subsidies, and transport campaigns and increases in health care are positive. [[The president calls.]] Finally, financial programmes are based on my opinion of an unrealistic optimism about economic developments until the next five years. [[The president calls.]] The plan is to build expectations for budgeting, which may then be difficult to live up to. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So I believe financial programmes are at the edge of stability.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u95	Madam President. Thank you. A senator makes a clear review of a financial program. There he just described the problem that has been warned, that we are building this plan on over-suspecting economic forecasts, unrealistic economic fortunes, many would say, i.e. In general, economic development will be expected in the coming years and the duration of this financial program that we have never experienced in Iceland before. With the experience in the highest places, predicting an even further rise in the realities at the same time. I know why. A senator sat along with me under the strong warnings of a number of stakeholders in this regard. I'd like to hear an opinion. The senator's ability to see any sign somewhere in the handling of a larger section of the legal committee is that this warning was heard or acted in some way, for it certainly makes one think. I would like to commend the chairman of the budget board for controlling a very careful discussion of this important strategy, which, of course, is a policy document for every government, but you miss, when it comes to the committee's number of stakeholders, a number of experts, economists, who all warn of the same, that it is unrealistic to plan for these practical predictions to follow, that there are no signs of response to the warnings. But at least I haven't found them, and I'd be interested to know if. A senator has found some sign of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u96	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I agree with that. A senator, that this was repeated in the reviews and members of the committee. I haven't exactly noticed that this has been taken with some action in the program. It is clear that this plan is based on a peak that is without any precedent. If we just look at the comments of the Iceland Business Council, which I think are very relevant, and more people, in fact, came in very, very, very, very much, that we're becoming more lax in the state's affairs and a lot of optimism and a growing awareness of the public. As I said in my case earlier, the report says that the success rate measured by the EU relative prices also peaked in the middle of 2017 and is still very high in historical context. Once they have walked to a similar level, they have consistently left behind. Despite this, however, a rising incidence is expected in the years to come. Clearly, this is contrary to the caution of the law on public financial matters. So it is very strange that the majority should not have, since he clearly realizes this, responds by some specific procedure, and is based on this high level of optimism. It's a little bit of a mystery to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u97	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. There is, of course, something else to note about the warnings that have been given in handling the legal committee. For one thing, a number of causes have been warned that the target given does not follow enough budget. The health - care system, the Land Hospital, is the growing number of nurses for the elderly. Similarly, this has been mentioned regarding the plans for a new pension system for those in disability, and it could continue to be counted. In view of what we discussed here earlier, an additional call has often been made for the weakness of forecasts of the basic design to make visual pictures. I'm asking why. A senator: Has he found any evidence of failure in the treatment of much of the greater part, on the other hand, of the weaknesses that have been flaunted and of the so - called terrestrial films?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u98	Madam President. Thank you. An interesting statement by a senator. We've been talking a lot about this in the Committee, and we've been telling a lot of reporters that they're clearly missing the motion pictures. The Chairman of the Committee and the Committee agrees on this, so you would have chosen to have responded in the process. The work of the Committee could well have been called for stage shots. In important language groups, such as in travel, you might have wondered, " How would I affect the economy if there was a severe reversal? ' This is vital for us to understand how governments would react to such situations. I'm a little surprised they didn't see this, i.e. not looking for this to be done. [[The president calls.]] Everyone pointed out, or very many, that it was urgent.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u99	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Invite the speech of the Birgir of Þórarinsson and the discussion. Hv. A senator works at night. The budget was very much appreciated by the Committee's opinion of 3rd my share. I'm gonna start by saying, 'cause. A senator said that more things were wrong. The legislature committee would have had no interest in agriculture, that it hurt me. I'm going to be very petty, so I'm gonna point out. For more information, please contact the branch office or write to the branch office. 21, which says: The stock needs to be stocked like the AVS and the Manufacturer's Fund for agriculture. On the one hand, I would like to mention the environmental issues of agriculture that depend on the issues presented here. Third, we took what. A senator helps to agree with the latest budget, especially with it, special support to the sheep farmers, and application of it. To do so, this interest is at hand. There are many things I would like to talk about. A senator and an excellent committee party, and what was said in the final answer to stage films and economic forecasts, as well as to the weak economic leaders. I'm going to leave that question to why. A senator - because he is going to hire for a travel service and speaks of a high-end experience that is obviously interfering with traveling services and may not fully guarantee that this rapid growth will continue - how he sees it, whether this goal will fail.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u100	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. Of course, the initial briefness with regard to agriculture was that the initiative, or reaction to the problem of sheep farmers, was a very positive step. I was primarily saying that I don't see that the land in the commission is being crossed in a complete way. The European Union is then the major problem of the toll agreement. That's the whole thing. Therefore, I would have thought that it would have been normal to set aside some money so that it would be possible to react, to take action to face farmers in the uncertainty ahead, to take some kind of counterweight action. That's what I focused primarily on in my language. When I mentioned that the government has no interest in agriculture, I find it particularly uninterested in the agriculture of this tax agreement and its impact on Icelandic and domestic agricultural production. But as for travel, I don't think this is contrary to uncertainty that there will be a modest price for tourists coming to the country. It is imperative that we go to considerable infrastructure at tourist locations. The country's reputation is at stake, that's just the way it is. If you know anything about the fact that the country's major attractions cannot be accessed because of waste management, etc. Then one day tourists are less interested in coming here. I think we can work together to take a good-looking look at this. I don't think a moderate price will have a bad effect that we need to worry about that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u101	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson's daughter answers, and they share the joy of building for the job. Of course, all of this is the most important thing in the careers and employment opportunities for people to make money and earn their own and theirs and to put up a roof over their heads. The question objected to the real effect on export work. Of course, we have to be careful with all our sectors and exports because of this extreme ordeal. I want to use these last seconds to thank you. A senator for the cooperation of a budget board and his valuable contributions on the Committee and this common opinion as a financial committee joined together and presented in all opinions, as in any case. Senator. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u102	Madam President. Thank you. A senator and the chairman of the Board of Education, Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson, for the counter-sponsor and for his excellent management of the budget as chairman of the Committee and, of course, I want to use this opportunity as well as thank all members of the Committee for cooperation with this programme. It's been a lot of work, as we all know. There are many good things in there, but there are other improvements. Although our goals may be noble in many areas, we do not have financial support. There is a natural part of this: We can't change much if there's no money left. Likewise, I thank you again for a fine job and fine discussion around the schedule.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u103	Madam President. I'm thanking the third-part body member of the budget board. I need to start by saying that there's an effort on the structure of tourist attractions. It was introduced in the fall. It is being taken in a powerful way over the next few years in the budget, it has been very well established. Regarding stage films, for the first time we received a financial committee, under the budget of December, the first stage that was required for the last of the first of our budgets a year ago. I hope it just keeps on developing in such a way that we can get a better view and better information, a stage picture, and something else related to it. I'd like to ask you what. A senator a few questions I'm wondering about. In this opinion, a percent is referred to as a reduction in taxation, and the interaction between these two factors is said to have never been a success in economic management and must be irresponsible in times of economic restation. The eruption was top of 2016. We may be talking about a different economy over the next few years, but we were having a couple of years ago, it's going to be a better one. Is then what? A senator speaking about a reduction in this environment that we will see for ourselves in the coming years, a tax reduction of 1% in these ideas? Then about the investments. I thought, at least, it was my opinion that we had this relatively equal over, i.e. ... aboutinvestigatinginvestment in the State budget. It is said in the opinion that short-term internalinvestors will affect the survival of the economy. I might be able to get more explanation from what happened. A senator where he is going with it?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u104	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. As I mentioned earlier, we're watching a lot of economic growth. Despite the rise in society today, there is evidence that the growth is rapidly decreasing and that we are going downward in this respect. When it comes to the time of tax loss, I think there's a very basic basis for economics, though I'm not an economist - I'm actually a theologian, but sometimes there's an excellent link between their academics, at least in reason - I think everyone is aware that it's unwise to lower taxes when there's much up. That's what I think is perfectly accepted science. But I would have concluded that - I'm saying that I'm not against taxes. All I have to do is do it wisely, making it the best use of the public. It will stimulate the economy to reduce taxes when we are in considerable subtraction, and there is a need to stimulate the economy. That's my thought behind this. Maybe I'll come back for the second time. A senator came in. We also look at uncertainty in economic development up to one year, let alone the five - year - old financial agenda. As a result, I think it would be wise for me to wait only on taxes and see how things are developing, even if only for the next year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u105	Madam President. That's exactly the question, as I stepped into my case just now, with the swing. I think we're going into a highly controlled environment for the next few years, at least the government budget and national interest forecasts are assuming, since we may have less than 3% interest, we'll be down to 3%. So there will be a different basis from the tremendous interest that was in 2016 up to 7.4%, so you can pass it on. I would like to ask you a question on page 19. 10 In the opinion of the committee, under a dress code, where it stands and I find it interesting: the situation is different within the labor movement, and it is more radical than people in general realize. The government cannot overlook these dramatic changes that we have seen within the labor movement. That's a big change. A change we haven't seen in decades. This needs to be taken into account in the financial agenda. My question about this aspect is, How can we deal with this in the budget plan for the transformation that has taken place in the labour market or the chicken market?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u106	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I did this only then in my speech, that it is natural to know that the coming of the State is important and is often to resolve disputes, and it is important that the government has room and ability to do so. Of course, such instructions are accompanied by expenses. In this case it would have been wise to avoid going to the reserve in the way it was done, taking about 4.4 billion from the reserves for transportation, simply because we need to be able to get access to the funds if unforeseen factors are taking place, which can certainly happen in the dresser field, and in particular in the light of the changing circumstances within the large labor movement today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u107	Madam President. I'm here recommending the opinion of the 4th minor budget-of-the-art legal committee on budget 2019-2023. Track No. 123/2015, for public financial reasons, divides lakes in that they are reinvented with the financial resources of the state. Applying the law to them is the best way of dealing with them. It is important that we be careful to follow the laws established in order to achieve their objective of promoting good economic management and the strength and responsible management of public funds. The budget shall be based on a financial policy adopted by the General as a Parliamentary resolution of March 22. A financial policy is introduced at the beginning of the terms of the term and is not revised unless absolutely necessary, but financial programmes are reviewed annually, in spring, and at five years of age. No one has to be misled about the great responsibility of a minister according to the new legal organization. A minister is now required to seek all ways to prevent expenses from being overemphasized and to use every means necessary to prevent slang. From now on, the tilt continues to move to the next year. This should be handled, and it will no longer be possible to make sure that a limp will be thrown down, uncluttered in regard to the situation. In this way, there is an increase in discipline and professionalism in the affairs of the State, which will help the law reach its goals and have to be considered to be a big step in progress. Because of recent events, it will not be avoided to make the subject of government relations with government laws on public finance, as shown by the government's planning on using a budget of some 4 billion dollars. From the general reserve here, it is to take money from the general stock fund for the weight management that is needed and sharpened, instead of providing funds for these projects in budgetary or financial programs, as should be done in the right order. The provision of money from the common reserve is bound up with strict conditions listed in Article 24. it's a government law. The requirement is to interpret clearly what is stated in a bill for public financial legislation. A reserve fund is intended to respond to temporary, unpredictable, inevitable expenses, and cannot be handled in any other way under the law. The use of funds from this fund for road work is hardly possible, to say the least. It will be claimed that poor roads are too poor for winter and freezing. The budget of the common reserve on the questionable grounds of abuse of Article 24. The law, creating a dangerous example that may, in fact, suggest that a minister is free to take advantage of the funds. Such action is contrary to the law and undermines its spirit and its goals. It is surprising that the government is in touch with Article 24. The law can be considered to be one of the financial and economic obligations of the government to protect public financial laws as a cornerstone in legal matters of government culture. A financial committee has requested that the U.S. Reconnaissance of the decision to spend four billion on road issues. Based on Article 24 of this procedure, a reexamination of the Kingdom will be made to the conclusion that this procedure is in accordance with Article 24. The law cannot help but see that governments are free to take advantage of money from the fund at will. The laws of the law, once considered strict, would then be in complete agitation, at least one of them, the unforeseeable, failed to meet the obvious conclusion, Madam President. The minister makes a decision regarding the treatment of the general budget and announces a financial committee. Then the question arises: What do the laws of the law mean in this relationship? To my court, it may be more correct to say that the sentence of the 4th smaller part will not be viewed by the law in this regard in a way that is intended to be a legal basis for a press meeting where the government teaches a financial committee about when making a decision. The purpose of the legal relationship between the minister and the budgetary committee must be that the minister of the Council may want Generalis to plan a government budget. 24th par. The U.S. Marshal's orders end up with the financing. A meeting with a financier must, by nature, include an investigation of the Will of the Generals, which has the legal authority to accept government plans and support support that the plans meet all criteria 24 g. The law. The opinion of a financial body is greatly affected by financial planning, so it is entrusted to a project, a financial body, to a law to give such an opinion. There will be nothing to be seen from the financial Council on accounting standards that lay the basis for financial management, but governments are in a crisis that will or need extra expenses to be made on individual issues. In a measure it seems that there will be a significant increase in expenses unless tax returns. In view of the fact that the product of the government's funds is in irons, this factor seems to have far removed economic issues since it was established. The financial agenda says that it cannot be expected that irregular wages will come on the income side to the same extent they have been in recent years, as there is an increased scope for spending in the pursuit of income in the traditional budget management of the state, as financial advice puts it. As a result, a financial body says that at the same time the income side is weak. In view of this, it appears that the baseline efficiency was not weighed particularly heavily when a major financial agenda was laid. In view of financial guidelines, lack of caution becomes increasingly evident, plans for the increase in the framed budgets and tax experts at the same time are expected to increase the share of the state funds as the plan goes on. The aim of a financial program on the survival of the State Fund is near the floor of the policy over the entire season of the programme. A financial adviser points out that there is little to worry about the estimated growth of the economy to threaten its progress. Economic growth in the future is, in nature, uncertain and increasingly uncertain as the process progresses. Thus, in view of baseline precautionary measures, financial guidelines believe that there is a sensitive analysis of the impact of economic climate abnormalities on public prospects for achieving their targets. If economic growth becomes lower during the financial programme than expected, the yield is likely to fall below the level of the policy. In this regard financial adviser points out that less economic growth does not have the same effect on income as costs. Taxation is sensitive to changes in economic growth. However, government spending changes in a slower way and may even increase if economic growth falls below the expected level, e.g. due to increased expenditures on unemployment insurance systems and social instruments. It must be concluded that the financial Council relies on previous indications that the complex policy of economic policy does not take into account the economic trend. Under such circumstances, the policy of economic management is no longer a narrow - cut sting that can work against stability. In fact, the percentageed goals of the birthday rule and the debt rule can be attributed to good times, such as those of the newcomers. An economic crisis would be evident if the views of reality and stability were considered to outweigh the absolute criteria that could even be attributed to wishful thinking. The financial adviser points out that the numbers of financial rules and baselines can be impacted. Conditions may arise as the offload and the obligation to return to baseline stability parameters, e.g. In situations where external trauma results in a sharp recession of the economy. How public finances can be used in such situations is unclear. This financial tip cannot be overlooked. The lack of awareness of the impact of changing users on the development of major economic dimensions must be considered serious failures and particularly if the economy is slowed down more than is proposed in the programme. A serious lack of publicity on this point is drawn up in the opinion of a financial body when it comes to the use of stratospherics and increasing flexibility in the production of ambiguous targets. Economic proposals are characterized by considerable uncertainty and weaknesses, as indicated by the recent Iceland's Organization for Economics and Tourism, the extent of which has become so widespread in the economy. There must already be evidence of less conditions than those responsible for a financial plan. In this regard, financial advice says that increasing coverage and transparent analysis of the effects of potential events associated with important employment factors on public finances is necessary to determine whether plans meet the stability and precautionary requirements. In accordance with established financial policies, financial management points out that the public's share in 2018 will be reduced to 1.4% of its share. The passwords of a financial body should be recorded here. By permission of the President: ▪ A new period of financial planning is the result of the public at the floor of the landing goals of current financial policy. Cost growth in the last few years has been high, and the plan continues to indicate growth in the first part of the programme. At the same time, the income side is weak. This has an effect on reduced maintenance. The timing of increased spending and less income plans needs to be considered in the context of the economic fluctuation. In a careful and tasteful way, it will be said that in a financial program, the government is in the near future, not to mention strong words. As far as security is concerned, the government gets a GPA on the part of a financial body. Furthermore, it is proper to point out that the limit to a number of debts can prevent a national interest investment from being attacked. The financial adviser points out that it can violate the baseline level of sustainability. I will now, Madam President, direct my attention to the votes of the lascivious in the community. The financier was given many financial reports, including organizations that care for people's interests for various reasons in society, including groups of the elderly, the poor, and the poor family of working people. The wealth of the need to meet these important social groups cannot be overemphasized. One of the main objectives of the environment is disability and the affairs of disabled persons according to the financial programme that all services and support, including improvements and payments, contribute to the ability to live independent lives of their own. The same financial programme estimates that the increase in social security will be in the range of only 3.1%•4.3% for the next five years. It is reasonable to ask in its review how people with impaired working ability should be able to live independent and decent lives with such advancement. In this light, the UN budget is totally unacceptable, and it will not change the terms of people who have experienced significant deficiency for years, including the children of microenergy donors. The rise in social security will have been below the increase in pay number in recent years. The budget cannot help but be aware that it will. Madam President. Knowingly, micro-energy pensioners are experiencing a much worse system and less benefit than old - age pensioners from the new social security system of 2017. A new simpler, flexible system is planned in 2019 that highlights the ability to operate. However, it is unfortunate that the government's plans for disability are extremely uncertain, as shown in a financial program. With this serious situation, which has been described and presented, especially by the United States and other Member States, the government provides virtually reasonable promises instead of ensuring a satisfactory standard of living for the poorest terms and least prospects in society. The policy has to stop, Madam President, that people with less energy are being held in a man - made poverty trap. The National Association of Iceland, however, points out that despite increases in limits both 2017 and 2018, child support is expected to be impaired due to revenues over 200,000 times. This is far below the minimum wage of 300,000 dollars. I will now consider some health issues. Knowing that the government was looking for a health policy for the country recently, a report published that it had not been found. There is no healthcare policy. This can be read in a Kingdom Review report. A serious point to consider is that political groups with a long history at the General Assembly that is financed by public funds and free donations should, despite having had money between them and a full amount of time measured by professional authorities, place thoughtless and empty - handed in the health minister's chair instead, as required, to set aside a perfect future policy in health matters. Qualifications for services for health care institutions are intended to provide and is designed by the government at any given time have proved to be far below the requirements for such service, as the surgeon's office has repeatedly indicated. The old political parties have thus produced wealth in this regard and have failed to deal with this discrepancy, in which older citizens are entitled to use metaphorically, in five stars of service, according to the surgeon's criteria for the quality of the ministry, are engaged in the use of illustrations, a two to three - star service under the government's command. No practical policy has been put forward in this regard by the welfare minister. The land hospital is the largest firm in the state and one of the largest corporations in the country. In such companies, it has been necessary to appoint a management of the most qualified professionals available at a time. The task of the management board is to strengthen the management and management of the company and provide the Commission with the necessary support and support. I think the reason, and I'm speaking here as a 4th smaller section of the budget board, so that it's now a good thing to stress that such a government will be appointed over the land hospital. It should be emphasized that such a government requires that people who meet the most strict qualifications for education and knowledge in the field and in the field of health science. For others, Madam President, the difficult part of the United States will never be overrated. Sadly, then, it is heartwarming to see that while the need for the ministry is growing, the government's support for it should be diminished. If it were not for public understanding and solidarity of the struggle against alcohol and addiction, this activity would be affected only by vision. If governments are not aware of the importance of this work, the necessary treatment as a day's work will not be readily available based on the information submitted to the General budget. As a result, the economic situation of the U.S.A. cannot be replaced by a small number of alcoholic and drug - related households in the country. I'm going to move on to housing. For a extensive discussion of housing matters, see the ASI comments to the budget board. THE well - known ASI suggests that difficult conditions currently exist in a housing market. ASI notes that in May 2015, a collective agreement reached an agreement to recommence the structure of social housing with a building of 2,300 apartments between 2016 and 2020, with a maximum of 600 apartments a year, with a total of 30◯40% subsidies of the state and rural society to ensure that the loss of housing would not exceed 25% of income. According to experts, it was estimated that in order to build 600 apartments a year, the State's contribution needs to be 3 billion dollars. every year. Has this money been on the budget and on the national budget ever since. ASI says in her opinion, it presented a fund board, that these contributions are not sufficient to build these 600 apartments. If this is the case, it will be explained by building apartments for students and disability entitled to up to 40% of the state and rural society and because the actual cost of building housing has increased by more than 12%. If the government aims to fulfill the promises made in the 2015 collective agreement, ASI realize that these contributions will be increased by about 600 million. K. on valid budgets and financial programmes as well as expected to have a normal rise in the building costs within the years to come. In view of the 4rd small part of the budget board, the WHO's requirement is to enter significantly in order to solve or help solve the problem of the country's housing market. I'm moving in now, Madam President. While industrial organizations take on initiative in their comments to the budgetary committee, this organization has recently sent out extensive, well - trained literature on the interiors of the country. Is this publication a great deal of work, I'd like to say. The organization points out that road funds were far too small during the past few years, and much effort is needed to correct them. Sadly, in a financial program presented at the beginning of April, they say that they do not find a trace of such an effort. The plan will include a similar proportion of land production in the time of the next five years, and it has been in the last five years and well under need. In order to meet the needs of maintenance and new investments, contributions to infrastructure may need to be made permanently. In addition, there is the need for effort to cope with the cumulative problems of honesty, as we have seen, especially with the secretary of transportation. According to the programme, average road input will be 0.7% of land production during the period. Is it far below the long term average of the country as reported by the Industrial Association, an example of 1.1% in the ten - year period since 20013/42010. The budget estimates that from the year 2019 onward, special annual donations are added to three - yearly, an annual application of 5.5 billion dollars each year. During these three years, the proportion of transport does not reach long - term average, and the organization of industry upholds the word in its review that it is most false to speak of a great deal of effort in this regard. It may also be that as this three - year - old period has passed, the investment rate in roadways goes down to less than 0.6% of national production, but only one year in recent decades, the ratio has been lower, as suggested by the organization in 2012. I now dispute, Madam President, with what has been called a national treasure. In a government covenant, an institution of a national treasure is presented. It shows that the funds will be financed by the resources of the country. It also shows that his role is to build resistance to economic disaster. At the same time, the funds will be used to promote innovation and support the growth and development of sceptre companies. Then a section of the fund will be used for the efforts of nursing mothers for the oldest generation. A discussion of national funds was also found in a paper motion suggesting that the Senate conclude on financial policy. Chapter 4 of the budget of a financial budget shows the aim for the building of a national fund to face the unforeseen events that will be financed by regular government funds. It seems that the funding of the fund should be built on a broader foundation. The scene two that appeared there is then assumed to be about 50 billion dollars. goes to the building of a national fund with a provision for a portion of property that is irregular income. Based on the sum of this matter, as discussed in the review of the financial Council, the call for clearer policy indicators of baseline transparency and firmness. According to the existing proposal, the fund is expected to preserve and increase income from the increase in revenues from the state's energy supply companies and to play the main role in becoming a sort of trauma protection when a government fund is exposed to financial resources in connection with major unsurpassed economic losses. There is also a government plan to use some of these incomes to support, as previously said, the innovation of the economy and to increase money to build up nurses. The information that has been presented on a national fund must be said, Madam President, raise more questions than they answer. What exactly is the role of a national treasure? Who will handle his affairs? Who should enjoy a fund of payment? What should be his relationship with the government fund? What task should the fund have with which the wealth of the Kingdom cannot carry out? What should be the visit of the Generals to the fund? A comment on the problem of temptation in this regard must be interpreted as a warning against the threat of corruption. The above has been used as an example of the problem of moral temptation, as manifested by the handling of funds from the common reserve. The state funds are passed on laws intended to ensure responsible management according to the duties of the Minister and the jurisdiction of the Generals. It is easy to see that a national fund can better carry out tasks that should be properly handled at home by a government fund. Madam President. The budget is a bigger issue than that, of course, to sum up some of its contents. But on its grounds it will seem to have an incompetent optimism for economic prospects. However, on the income side it should be left behind and the business should be covered by irons. So it seems here that the government has reached its limit to its baseline cautionary state. The government's priorities are made clear in the program. In terms of the busiest groups of society, a policy is displayed that is hard to criticize in the comments of the union of pay people, disability, and reformers, as well as the influential union officer, such as the Labor Society of Aranes. This happens at the same time and emphasis is placed on reducing bank taxes and thus bringing considerable financial resources to privileged groups. That rationalization of the members of the administrations, at least Some snoozes. Generals, during this operation, showed that it will lead to a corresponding decrease in interest from the loan institutions, not being supported by a meeting of funds committees in which loan agencies did not trust to claim, asking that the effect would be this, that interest would be reduced in a similar way and a decrease in bank tax. Reduce, according to existing plans, the underdemn level of income tax, without using the procedure to improve the interests of the most efficient where possible, by increasing the character output to their benefit as well as the higher income declines. Of course, there we see very clearly the priorities in these matters. Finally, I'd like to be happy to know that a panel of budgetary committees stood together as a whole in common indications and suggestions. This emphasizes its professional role regardless of political views. This point is important, in view of the importance of the committee and its professional role in the management of funding and the implementation of budgetary, financial policies, and financial programmes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u108	A respectable president. Thank you. Ísleifsson For Ólafur excellent speech and a review of the issues discussed here, the son of Isphreason was given. At the beginning of his talk, the senator entered a matter that is involved in the use of the common financial reserve that is expected in the civil law. As I come here to work from the contractor business, I have seen a considerable amount of budget in the past. It is a common feature that is called in one form or another an ostensibly visible place where people intend to have a table bearing with regard to things they cannot foresee. From what I've seen in terms of financing for the road, which is over half of the government's savings fund, it seems to me that the government would provide the team for them as an unpredictable team in which she could face a case that she didn't realize in time or did not have the courage to make money because it had rocking the boat too much. I thought it was my fault. A senator might come up with an opinion like that, for this is clearly not the purpose of this law. This isn't an emergency fund. The general reserve is not thought of as a museum team for something unseen or something that people were afraid to complete in a discussion of the budget a few months earlier. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament: Is there anything in the process that we witnessed today in the treatment of this fund, indicating that the government that is now going to care for this fund with the responsibility that the legal environment calls for?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u109	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason for his answer. It will be said that the treatment of the common reserve, as discussed in Article 24. The government's law, it's a surprise. I even allow myself to say that here the least cut, because it's clearly set as a precaution and that it's a long list, like me and others. Councilmen reviewed the conditions that must be met in order to benefit from this fund. One of the conditions that were carefully discussed in a financial committee and at a meeting with a financial minister when presenting the committee is that the basis for the expenditure must be unpredictable. There is nothing unpredictable about the fact that the bad - looking roads of the land are even worse affected by winter. There is no way to reach that conclusion. I would like to justify what I said in my speech that it is at the request of the Board of Benefits, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of this arrangement. She's waiting with great anticipation. If a government review believes that this is a proper treatment of the general reserve, according to criteria set in Article 24. The law has been fulfilled, the danger is invited home, I must say as if in my speech, as if it were in detail.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u110	A respectable president. It will be interesting to see what will be the attitude of the Kingdom Accounters regarding this arrangement. If it comes to the unlikely conclusion that this is the treatment the fund is intended for the future, I think it is necessary that we pack up all the plans for this national fund the fastest it will be, that it will seem to you, that each government's whims will play a role, not measures that serve the original purpose of this ideal fund. I'd like to ask you what. A senator with regard to the national fund, which he handled so well in his speech. Counts 'em out. A senator, obtaining experience, is it possible for each government to act on it in a similar way to the reserve today? Is there reason to believe that each one is affected by different attitudes? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u111	Mr. President. In discussing national funds, financial counsel is so faultless and careful that it is in all its expression and presentation, a reason to call attention to a term called a moral hazard in the opinion of a financial body. Tempestion is a very tasteful and polite term for what in everyday speech might even be called corruption. In other words, if I allow myself to say so, we are being warned not to offer home the danger of being free - minded. We are here to present a recent example of fellowship with the State Fund, i.e. The general reserve, which seems to be a very large energy binary to say no more. [[The president calls.]] Still, we have a government fund that is protected in the back and for any legal requirement intended to ensure the trust and responsible handling of the funds of the fund. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u112	A respectable president. Because of what you're saying. The senator of the duties of the government to use the financial rights set out by the General Assembly, which he traced in his speech, I would like to turn away from the duties of governments that are unconvinced and legally bound to the legal rights of the General Assembly to protect financial rights and the laws of public finance when the government then fails to comply with the law. It was here, for example. Note the reserve and what has been done about it recently. I think it is, and I have reasoned that this intervention is not the law on public finances that such expenses are temporary and unpredictable. Rather, it has simply been answered by a minister that he believes that he has reasoned sufficiently. What's the role of the Generals? And what are the possibilities of the Generals to say, "No, you're wrong, stop it?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u113	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir My companion, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, in the matter of the budget, for the answer. I feel that if things are to be as he described, and we are here some members of the council, what's the role of the Generals? In my speech, I sought to discuss this in the context of this provision from the general reserve we've both assumed to be double-computer, in view of the conditions given in Article 24. The law on government finance, the significance and meaning of the law's laws on the information of a minister to the budgetary committee on the disposition of funds. It was my conclusion that it could not be that their purpose, as I would allow myself to say, is to create some legal basis for some sort of press conference where the General Assembly Fundament Committee, members of the Parliament's Council of the State's Fund, should be there just as if there were any props of the press meeting to hear a message there without their view of any significance, their opinion of this arrangement on the other hand, and as to whether these established conditions at Article 24. is satisfied. Therefore, the weight that I can express concerns about this treatment of this fund is expressed on my part. If this is to be the case, I believe it is undermined by the government laws on government, as well as that it is undermined by the overall financial position. That's not a small thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u114	A respectable president. I'll take my whole mind off with what's wrong. Senator. That's when I wanted to go somewhere else. In view of the greater part, it is said that there is an 117.5 billion change from budget 2017. Because the budget of 2017 makes it a little difficult to evaluate the numbers here, because in the basic situation we received, it is said that I remind you of this period, 2018,2023. It speaks of 78 billion, which is, in fact, the change the government makes in excess of debt, etc. If only the financial programme period is taken, it's only 54 billion. I wanted to think about it to the senator: This financial plan is 54 billion dollars. value, i.e. The government's policy. Am I not reading this right?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u115	Mr. President. I'm honored I'm just here to consider. The point is, the font is too small for me to be able to figure it out properly, so I have to ask for respect. I just wanted to say because of that comment. paritaprevir Björn Leví Gunnarsson's bear to use 2017 as a reference year when discussing the budget of 2019-22023, this reviews words attributed to Disraeli, former prime minister of Britain: There are lies, there are forbidden lies, and there are statistics. There are many forms of reality that can be created depending on how things are put in motion, even how they are put in the absolute light. I'm going to allow me to say as a general conclusion that when we're talking about this period, you'd have claimed in advance that the reference year was, Mr. President, 2018. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u116	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir An Isengardite Ísleifsson of Isunda for an excellent speech and entitlement to the discussion, for the crisis of the Committee from the 4th minor legal committee. Hv. A senator reviewed government arrangements from a general reserve of this budget in 2018 and traced the strict conditions presented in Article 24. a law on public financial matters that says that they must be temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable, and cannot be handled in any other way under the law and that reserve should be except a percentage, 1% of financial resources. This is where the article is not long, with president's permission: a decision is made by the secretary of state to prepare funds from a reserve fund and to account for the use of the decision. The financial committee followed this arrangement and came to meet with the secretary of finance in which he made clear and reasoned on how these requirements of the arrangement were met. According to one report, a budget should be informed about the use of funds from a general reserve when the minister's decision is established. The question is, see what. A senator envisions some kind of adjustment in the course of this discussion? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u117	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson for the answer. I think we're discussing something very important. We are talking about a real act of human use or use of the common reserve. We are discussing only the natural understanding of the requirements that apply there. You've been through it, and here you've come under your hand to discuss the conditions you need to be on hand to make use of this reserve. This has been done not only in this public talk but also in detail at the branch office, including at a meeting with a minister. The question is, What is the meaning of the terms relating to communication between legal committees and Ministers? Will it not be expected that between these parties there will be mutual respect and consideration? It cannot be assumed that the minister will decide what is involved in such a meeting, what the financial committee's response to plans for any action, and how a minister argues that these plans are compatible with the requirements that apply, i.e. 24th par. Public financial law? That's really what I do to talk about, huh? Senator. I have to say, after this meeting, I was a little bit thinking and I've been since, for one thing, I believe there's a lot underneath, i.e. how men associate with the laws on public finances, so that's how I put it. This is a fundamental law on the financial development of a government fund. [[The president calls.]] They had very good intentions, as I had discussed in my earlier talk. Hence, great demands must be made on how and in every respect that a person is obliged to carry out these laws. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u118	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. We share our opinion of professional roles with each other. The legal committee and responsible for monitoring and implementing the entire process. Hv. The legal committee actually went beyond the law. She got a meeting of the highest. The secretary of transportation and the representative of Vega, reviewing the unpredictable, inevitable, and temporary tasks under way, and sending a request to the State Reconnaissance, as it were. A senator came in very handy. I'm not in any kind of justification or any court seat, but it's important for the committee to get this process over because we also need to keep our eyes on the law in this regard. I want to use these seconds at the end and thank you. A senator's contribution to the work of the Committee on this important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u119	Mr. President. I believe that the chairman of a money committee that was getting out of the platform can be very proud of his conduct as head of the Committee and especially of the way he has handled these matters as he traced them here. Not only was a meeting with the minister of finance called to the secretary of transportation along with the free travel force from the roadtype, but it was not lacking in it. It was good for him to respond by calling for State Accounting. Here's a really good plan, as you might expect from what you're going to do. Chairman of the budget board. I'd like to use this opportunity to thank him for his strong control of this important committee of the Generals as soon as I thank someone else. The committees are very happy to cooperate.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u120	Mr. President. I would like to be there when I was given a moment to say thank you for what I'm willing to do in this discussion. I've come here to say a few words about what is involved in a financial programme by the General of the Council for the year 2019-2023. I do this because, from time to time, I have been in human speeches discussing the state of the Generals' position, the plans of the Commission's collaborative Declaration to foster and promote its activities, what I, as president, celebrate, of course, and it's natural that people would want to know how this information is in my perspective as president and general office, which, of course, operates with this kind of application. I'm gonna go over this. That's mostly four things I'll be doing. First, an increase in the contribution to council because of their own business and the purchase of expert services is built into this program and actually already started. It's simple. The end point for the next year is that funding for this team will be the same as the actual value before cutting it in 2009. That money was in the budget of 2017, 51,950 B.C.E. K. It grew by 20 million in budgets for the current year, making arrangements for members of the council a total of 71,900 you. K. This year. This amount, in turn, takes an additional 35 million. K. next year. In other words, the increase from 2017 will be 55 million, and the sum will be from 51.9 to 106.9. Of course, this will change the members of the council and their skills for staff and buy special services. If this isn't part of promoting the General in this regard, I'm wrong. So I think with this team, we are getting completely adequate, very good management of the plan, and, indeed, in part, in the budget of the current year. I came to this end as a newly elected president immediately to follow up on what was so beautifully indicated in the Declaration of the Governments, and I wanted to see it immediately in the budgets of this year, as it became. Secondly, I mention the growth of contributions to support the Management Board, the financiership, and the follow-up role of the Council, with the support of commissioning. This points directly to the expressions of cooperation. Where, then, do we have it? Thus, for the first time in a ten years, employment can finally be reassigned at the General Assembly and at the Office of the Generals. It is financed in half this year, i.e. Three new positions are financed in half the budget of this year, meaning that from the middle of the year, we can recruit people for their work. There's only been a delay in advertising the posts, but it'll be done in the near future. The reason for its delay is that there has been a measure of change in the staff of the Generals and has been the priority of filling in the gaps, such as the hiring of a new financier, what has now been done in place of our fine son Karl M.. The son of Kristjánsson. This will be fully financed next year, the three positions of experts. That's what we get 45 million. K. the plan as early as 2019. It is assumed, for example, that these three standards will be replaced by two new experts who will be hired into the General Assembly and an additional legal attorney in the Legal Office, or to help the Director of the Alwardis, who has become very loaded with work as the sole employee in that field. Although this may not be the final case, other developments have been assumed to be economist's position, or national economist, which would work primarily behind and work with a financial and economic and business committee. The other would be the position of a prospective lawyer who would mainly help with the Commission and monitoring committees and after incidents and to some extent other committees dealing with related issues such as the General and Education Committee. Then another lawyer, who would cooperate with the chief lawyer of the council. In addition, there are two sets in the year 2021 and 2022, so the latter part of the schedule was added to the other two positions and probably also to the committee field. By then it would have become four more experts who were working behind eight members of the Senate. The concept is the one that the Committee has been developing that this will become more complex work, more like team experts behind the financial and economic and business committees for their support and support and assistance as well as perhaps committees such as the Commission and the Commission, General and Education Committee. The two new positions could then be added to the employment committee, the environment and transport committee, or the welfare committee, etc. Then I think that if these plans, we could find a sense of pleasure, to promote the committee field in this way, to follow through. Third, in a ten - year period, an effort is made to resume further assistance with members of the Parliament, i.e. hire them helpers. It's been going on lately. This was part of the financial program of the last year. True, this will likely be done in a way that allows the recruitment to take place through the councils and become their guardianship. We hope that we will begin at the end of this year with full force next year. It'll take you two to three years to get it on your feet. It has to be said, as it is, that it is an aspect that will be better handled in the relations of the Generals and the Ministry of Economics. There have been conversations and mails between them, but the conclusion is that this will have to be done better in the revised financial programme of the next year. But that is a common understanding of the fact that these plans are going to be fulfilled, and they will be introduced into their final form in the next year's financial program. It is estimated that in 2021, there will be fewer than 190 million. K. for a provision. This is the scope of the work programme that will be carried out in stages during those years. This was the third act. As a result, all of this is quite good, I think, and for a long time, of course, we're going to be able to get more personal help, even though it's not on the same basis as it is around us in different states, where each member of the Parliament has one and even two helpers, who he has complete control and governs himself. It is more important that we make it all the way there for now, for we, for example, have had to tailor ourselves for growth as a small Assembly and a small country, but we are on our way back in the process of expanding personal or congregational assistance with members of the council. Then there's the fourth item I'm going to mention, one small building for the Council of the Council of 4,4 billion, which is in this program. I don't want to talk about this as being a major motivation to strengthen and improve the working situation at a council. Then I'm not just talking about the money, I'm talking about, like, the money. A vision of the future that all the business of the committees, all members of the Parliament, all services to them, will be in modern, custom-made housing involving their needs and its members, instead of being out of the valleys and in rented houses, as with all kinds of inconveniences and troubles, including and especially when the size of councils and new council groups is involved in a history that has often brought difficulties. Of course, it is quite an enormous point in improving the situation here and promoting the General Assembly that it is also properly prepared for housing. I am content with these four factors, though there are other factors. It can be read in part in the schedule. Some of it is already being carried out, such as improving the quality and safety of the General Information System. This has been done with financial resources. They are partly stored, but at last, the measures are in progress to improve the quality and safety of the information systems. Today, there is much work to be done and ahead of us in this regard. I'd like to mention only the General Subcommittee, for, of course, we also need to look out for their interests, that is our duty, that they work in our shelter; the U.S. Marshals and State Reconnaissance; and after the events, if such comes under General Intelligence Committees, that everything must be prepared as well. I believe after some incidents, that's what they do in the plan. The plan is to promote, for example, the agent, both the initiative-checking and to ensure that new projects such as the OPCAT will be fully financed. It's inside those plums. The same is true of the Watch Tower Society's first letter to the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania, by means of the Watch It is intended to support the Agency, e.g. that it may be able to perform its important role in accounting and in harmony with international revision standards. This is also relevant in connection with new government laws and that they can carry out their normal tasks and duties, to monitor the financial activities of the Member States, to monitor the balance and review of annual accounts, etc. So I'm also fine with their share in these matters. It is certainly not a large mail there, though, compared with what the General himself is receiving in support of these materials. Of course it's so, Mr. President, that there will never be calm before each Viking in such a program. There is always some uncertainty about what will be the needs of an organization like the Generals in years to come. For example, it is difficult to estimate the exact amount of expenses from year to year linked to the International Parliament's involvement in international cooperation. It is not always predictable with long notice how much responsibilities Iceland takes as a host or a host for conferences and meetings. At times, though, it may take a lot of money just to become the host of major meetings by the Council of the Northern Country, the Council of Europe, or any of these. During the years that are held here in the Northern Council, a substantial amount of money is needed to sustain it, etc. It is natural and should not be a cause for concern. Finally, I would like to mention the pleasant part that has come to a cooperative agreement between the Generals, the Ministry of Presidency, and the Association of Women's Leaders in politics. Iceland will be the host of this great annual meeting of the parties each year for the next five years that will be held at the end of November and that are guaranteed, in fact, in cooperation with private partners as well. The conclusion is this, Mr. President, and it was my business here to review these matters, and it's also a good thing that this is recorded in the House of Congress. This is how we view it from the Generals and Generals' office. These are the plans and plans that we believe are on the other hand and, in most cases, we have simply obtained here in print, and in some cases we are working in, especially with the aid system, and we are full of faith that it will work out all the rest. In that case, I think that we can reasonably measure up to the aspect of the matter's enjoyment that is actually getting deep down to the fact that there is a will to better prepare for the General and strengthen its activities. There are a number of other things in the hands of the General himself that cannot be solved with money and that focus on its work and respect.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u121	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator and president in this case. What I find interesting about his review is that you're hearing this dislocation for the first time in a subsequent year. on financial, but not on the Committee's work as such; the amounts, the number of standards, etc. It would be great if you were to receive such information about all the fields and all the goals set here. Sure, it's nice to hear about three new positions, two new positions, etc. But the criticism I had in my history, in a committee study, was about the goal of increasing my rank values. Does this mean less work hours in the committee field? Is there a comment or a review, a lecture, returning faster? Is there a number of cases going through a committee field? An agent of the Generals speaks of a number of news on a Web site; it refers only to the situation: 2017, 17; in 2019 it is 50 and 75 in 2023. It's just a simple standard for what goals to reach. Enrolling three new employees cannot be a personal goal. What matters is what we will achieve by hiring three new employees. How to recruit three new employees is the solution to our goal, e.g. to publish more information on the site or that fewer hours of overtime remain on the committee field or something similar. It would be most welcome if it could be done a little more accurately.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u122	Mr. President. Now I can't quite explain the information of a budget committee, either pick up, or get out of work. But the information I have received is because, of course, we've had this relationship with the Ministry while the plan was being developed and we're very good at reading the total numbers. We know what's behind them, and we know these things are like I've gone over, that I'm totally thinking, unless I had to say that the OPAAT project was funded here. It is not, but it has been in the process of talking about its financing. It will, of course, be assured, since the General and U.S. Marshal have already named it that if he accepts this assignment, he will get a completely independent budget. The Ministry, who actually asked the General to accept this assignment, has promised to do so. Of course, the goal is not just to increase the number of employees. It's not a job. It's not a job. I don't really think it's necessary to speculate on such things. Does not everyone know that there is often a great deal of stress in the Generals area, e.g. as in these days? How useful it would be to have two more, three, or four experts there, when the work load is the most important. But it is not just to cope with the stresses of life. The advice of economist or national economist and a team that will be behind a budget, as well as a financial and business committee, is particularly in my mind to simply promote the ability and authority of the Parliament to bring judgment on things themselves and not be on others as it is today. That dream I've had for a long time that the council will simply be more powerful than itself to evaluate various things, especially financial and financial aspects. It is now one of the main missions of the Generals to be funded and overlord.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u123	A respectable president. One of the operations here in the opinion of the General agent is the OPCAT. It was interesting to know that there may not be a total amount of money, but there is at least something in this room; type, expert assistance, translation, etc. Now I'm not going to downplay the ambition that there's a special team for economists, economic teams or anything else; there's definitely a need for that. By making size comparisons, I don't have to belittle it, not on purpose, it's only clear how small such a team would be if it was based on the Ministry and the Ministry, the Organization's Association of Employment, ASI, and others with quite a lot of involvement, perhaps by the U.S. organization. Then I think of the comparison between this little team as I have it now - somewhere you have to start - and the ability to stand in front of the politicians and a much larger and more groundy pair within the textiles, for example. It's a very interesting project and something I think we need to be very supportive of, not just getting the team back together at all, but that it can resist a political resistance, so to speak. I really hope it's gonna work out.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u124	Mr. President. It is true that we are not here talking about being tied up in size to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which is behind a budget or a financial and business committee. Nor are we talking about establishing a new national economy, validation, even though it has been often discussed that in the covert of the World Health Organization of Independence, it should be done in the spirit of the one who was traveling there in his day. We are certainly taking steps in the right direction. This certainly does improve. Even one powerful person, one powerful expert, can change the situation in incredible numbers. I can mention, for example, the chief legalist of the Generals. He works remarkably hard for the council, for council committees, to make memos, to evaluate things, and to provide legal counseling that is invaluable. Of course, he must not drown him out in such a way as to burn out. For one thing, it is being prepared for appointment by an employee to assist him. I certainly think it's a step in the right direction and improvement. I'm gonna let myself have a little fun with what. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, saying, "There is nothing for me to rejoice over. I like it. A senator may be unnecessaryly downcast, as if this were almost in vain and no good at all. I got it. I got it. A senator to raise the bridges and be happy about this. The reality is that this is a big step in promoting the Council. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u125	President. Thank you. The information presented here, very helpful, and interesting in his case, especially what had to do with the staff of the council, was presented by a senator and a dignified president. I think, for example. that just in the matter we discuss here, it was very important. I know from the previous senator's speeches that he shares with me the opinion that the council would have needed this document sooner than ever to be a witness and have more opportunity to establish an independent assessment of infrastructure as here is referred to the proposed recruitment of a economicist, which I believe is very useful in providing an independent assessment of the economic basis for this strategy. Is it a cause for rejoicing? I think it can really help us, because one of the things we've been discussing here today is critical that despite much publicity, the council has been extremely little chance to deal with the plan as such. Because we want to have our joy first, I hope it is. A senator forgives me for a certain sort of boy when I ask him about his last government financial plan and how he appreciates the situation where - by permission of the President, i.e. the one sitting here: The World Bank estimates that national financial relaxation in the three years of 2015, 2016, and 2017 will be 7.5% of gross production. We know well that during the year, relaxation was in place on the income side and the maintenance of public funds was reduced because the income and the funds were dropped in the economy. This results in the reduction of the financial resources in the economy. Under what circumstances? When the economy is sailing to the top of the economy. And when has this happened before? In the years before crash. [[The president calls.]] Now, it is clear that in the period of this financial program, the zebra has again assumed that the terms of government spending are being significantly reduced. [[The president calls.]] Now I'm asking, "What is it?" A senator worries me about that fact?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u126	Last year I was just saying we seem to agree on that, me and what. A senator, on the importance of strengthening and increasing the testimony of the Generals to make an independent assessment of things, especially in such cases. I repeat, I believe it is particularly important that the Council strengthens itself in terms of the economic and financial aspects as well as in the role of the administrative and monitoring committees. Then I'm thinking of the second hand of the budget and the budget and the budget and the general surveillance role of the Council where a board of administration and monitoring committee plays the key role. With regard to the management and tax reductions at bad times and so forth, that's why. Obviously, a senator trying to catch a president on the political battlefield. I had planned to give a very political professional speech as the president of the Generals, and I did not get involved in discussions about it, but of course I do not run away from earlier words. [[Up front.]] During the past few years, I criticized a few things on government matters, and it's best not to say that I am or am. A senator has disagreed greatly. Of course, I'm worried about things, including now. But I'm pointing out that it's different from earlier years, I'm not talking about e.g. The top advantage of 2016, the economy is getting colder now. You could argue how much, but it's clearly more like that. Then, things of that kind, to increase the cost even more than the other, to draw them together, slightly different to economically. But I don't disagree with the emphasis being made here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u127	President. I'll leave it to the top. President and w. A senator, rather, entered the political court. As soon as a senator opened his speech, I heard that he spoke there as president rather than a senator, yet I could not ask him a question on these matters. What I believe, however, is a very good thing to keep in mind, which has to do with the speaker's talk or the highest. President - I am very pleased with the emphasis they are putting on promoting the council. I also greatly welcome the ambitious plans for putting the council under one roof. I think it would be good for us to bear in mind that the glory of the council and its strength must not be left over in public financial matters when, for example, the government's financial contributions are not allowed. depressions again. I certainly hope that this will not be the first thing that will be resolved, whenever it comes to our having to squeeze us again, for I think that in such times it is very important that the council be strong, and that members of Congress have the support they need to be able to do their jobs with ambition. Sad to say, it has often been in recent times that such tasks, even called pet projects, have been difficult, but I believe that glory, respect, and strength of the council can never be considered a quality project or something that can be cut down on the first occasion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u128	Mr. President. Thank you for a positive discussion here. I couldn't agree with you more. Of course, it was not one of the most enjoyable things to have also had to squeeze something into the General Assembly after a collapse. It was tried to do so so as to minimize its nuclear functions. International activity was reduced considerably, and the number of trips and so forth was reduced. It was tried to do so in ways that we could maintain minimal activity in all things, but only for less money. I hope it's very long, if it ever happens, that we have to do that again. Then hopefully I'll be at all risk in politics. I got plenty of one traffic. I'm sorry. A senator is absolutely putting in a trap for me. It's mine to guard against her and not fall into the pit, it's just a test. But my main purpose here was to review how it turns to the Council. I'm also going to promise that we will try to maintain a good solidarity over how we play out these new possibilities. Of course, it will be discussed on the Committee for Presidency and with members of Congress, such as it has only been considered, when it comes to our starting further in advertising positions and the like, how it will be done precisely. Hopefully, then, all of us can do a very good parallel of those things.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u129	Mr. President. Now that the sun is high and we see white student caps traveling through town, many are focused on tests or tests. This is quite appropriate, since the financial policy of each government is probably the main test of the economic policy of the respective government and, unfortunately, it will be to say that the government has failed that test and that it is quite difficult to know. If we continue with that test model, I think the government will have to reshoot this, even for all four years, if we look to the student. Why do I say that? Because looking at the mistakes that have been made in the interest of previous years, they have been happy to be exactly what is being said here, i.e. That the government's budget is presented at the height of the economy. The different excuses applied to each occasion can be a long-term cumulative need, however long as the economic growth has continued, an urgent need for investment in the infrastructure, the need for the building up of health systems, etc. All of these are urgent and needed assignments. It is somehow in Icelandic economy that as we look to the economic history of our sovereignty, this is a repeated mistake, over and over again, and always as never we are going to learn. The recent report by a team of staff on improved money policy shows it's fine. It is a long consideration of the tragedy of our economy during the past 100 years and the lessons we can learn from it. This is very interesting, but in many respects very sad reading. I find it interesting, with President's permission, to be allowed to kill down in the report, which includes: about ten lessons from an Icelandic money story: ▪ During the 100 years that Iceland has had full self - control in money matters, many have been tried. Citizens have been in a gold-gain, currency-based, fixture-separated union within the Bretton-Woods system. Efforts have also been carried out with monetary targets, incidence targets, or momentum, as well as with contrast to the European currency system (EMS). The nationals have also tried the cost of free floating gangs, and now since 2009, flexible targets of inflation, supported by capital capitalists, have been used. And there is still a proposal for a new financial implementation. What's the problem? The committee finds that following the rules is more important than what game is chosen. It would be fine if the discipline required in all democracies would be discussed in a long way. By permission of the President, I again quote the report: ▪ The Icelandic rule barriers have been far more widely known elsewhere - it is as if the nation did not even try to comply with the rules required by the money policy at any given time. Sadly, she herself has suffered in a terrible way. The second main lesson that the committee offers is this 100 - year - old story: The economy needs political support. Again, with president's permission: ▪ Another political objective - employment, welfare, community policy, or simply wish to win the next election - has always been the priority of maintaining economic stability. This is shown by the lack of political authority on operating - until the beginning of the 21st century - that of the Low Plains of the United States. This has also been revealed by the fact that government funds have not been used to maintain stability - such as holding back the spending of good news. That is exactly the situation we are facing today. And what is involved in the financial and financial plans of the government that deserve such a low rate? It is the poisonous cocktail of large - scale government expenditures at the climax of the economic fluctuation and tax - loss plans. In fact, there is no much more dangerous mixture available to economic management than that mixture. What does it mean in English? This isn't the most fun discussion. It's like watching water boil sometimes. But this is of utmost importance. There is probably little in decisions made by governments or in the treatment of the General Assembly that is more important to our country than how we use or do not use government funds to support economic stability. The price we have paid for the instability is an enormously unstable gang, with regular odyslexia for the homes and businesses of the country, and much higher in stature than our neighboring nations have been used to. The actual interest level is here at least Three percent higher than our neighbors, e.g. Other parts of the North and other Western world have become accustomed to. This is the cost of lack of discipline. This is why it's so important. This is the expense that usually takes away the weight of the busiest homes in the country. They are the homes that can least cope with the economic setbacks, the homes that usually take on the heavyest load when it comes to housing costs, rising rent prices, as we saw in the collapse. This was the group that lost their homes, who no longer managed their debts, including, and not just a large part of it, a highly unsettled economy. This has been repeated, not just in a good report by the money conference. That has been a major reason why we decided to set laws on public finance, in order to try to stem the trend. Once again, I ask, " What have we learned from this? ' It is also noted that in an article written by Jónas H. Haralz on January 1, 2009, in which he made up his judgment, what can be learned from economic development and economic management in Iceland in the 20th century, he says, with permission of the president: ▪ Two things will come first to my mind when I consider this question, a point that is actually closely related. One of them is how fragile and difficult our relationship with the outside world has been. - It was no secret that Jónas came to the conclusion that we should be part of the European Union and the euro. We have put in place the emphasis we have put on the development of manufacturing tools and other projects, but we are failing to create the economy a general environment for good governance, which is the basis for sound economic development. This, in simple terms, is the time we talk about at this point in the economy that is only a yielding process, and therefore it can be given in the state's budget. At the same time, the Secret Bank tells us: You are detracting from the business of the state, we need to have interest more than that. What does growth mean? This means that companies are harder to deal with the coldness that occurs in the economy. They have to wait longer for the oxygen they need and the same for their homes. It also means that because of a high interest level, it becomes stronger, which undermines every export road and competitive branch in the country. This is not new. We repeat such economic mistrials at approximately Seven to ten years apart. We have done so, as shown by the fine review of the money policy committee, regularly every seven or ten years during the past century, our entire reign. As our neighbors learned from this decades ago, we continue to beat our heads at the stone. We continue to deceive ourselves into thinking that there are other economic laws here than there are in all other countries around us. Let's get back to the toxic cocktail of government policy. There is no final judgment on the level of drinking properly. That's another subject. We can totally control the low or high level of coordination at this point in the economy, the fact is that the level of co-administration to be controlled is simply financed. That's not what the government does. It brings to mind another economist that the former governments have often done: Icelandic politicians spend the money they have. It is the simple norm. All the money found available is spent because it wins an election. It's as simple as that. It is never first to give counsel, to show responsibility in the interests of the government. We'll do it again. We are well aware that at this point in the economy, when we have turned aside from economic growth being driven by exports to continue economic growth by personal consumption and public expenses, government funds are making a lot of money. In effect, raining into the Kingdom box at that point because we make good use of a position because of the rise in our provisional materials. We'll renew our cars, we'll replace our electronic devices, we'll travel a little handsome, we'll do well in food and drink, and we'll keep counting. All of this is taxed well by the wealth of the state, and is given to the fund of the state great wealth. On the other hand, we know that it will come, as it were, with a marked decrease in the income of the state's budget. When we are going to adjust the level of health care or education at the height of the economy with the state funds business almost zeroed and even reduce taxes into it, we know that we will not be able to afford to perform the same service at two, three, or four years' time when slowing down. Once again we will have to do the same nonsense, we can say, and we've always had to, to choose between the downstroducing to amass or raise taxes, or, as in the last crisis, we've both taken steps to regain the balance of the budget. This financial policy does not reveal that there is no lesson to be learned from past experiences. It's a 100-year-old school. We should have fucking learned something, but we haven't. To me, looking up at things is a tremendous disappointment. It is interesting to compare the financial programme of this government with the financial program of the government that sat here last year and was criticized for its plan, which, though, seemed neutral in the economy, in accordance with World Bank assessment. She may not have helped to hold back the expansion, but she was neutral, not encouraging the economy. Then there was strong criticism that not enough was destroyed. It's made up of a lot of things, but at the same time, it's also decided to reduce taxes, to the top. There is no basis for economic stability. There's no basis for soft landing in the economy. Other factors in this, which is the economic foundation of financial planning. This five - year increase and tax reductions are expected, as mentioned earlier. What I think most often was heard in the budget panels on the basis of financial planning and its main features are the warning of a number of people saying that there are far too optimistic economic forecasts down to the foundation of the budget. In such circumstances, it might be said: First of all, financial advisers have been called upon. made it, the economic rhythm-corrected approach of the unrecognized state funds and obvious that it does not seem ideal in many ways; for it is always very convenient to have this better to spend a little. Second, some forms are being drawn up. What if economic growth becomes less this year or the next one than we expect? We will, in the economic terms of financial programmes for the longest continuous economy in Iceland, back in the history of the former 100 years. Although this alone does not rule out the possibility of such an outcome, at least it is not too wise to put everything into practice, which means that it requires more caution, more advice, and also attention to the effects of a government fund's survival. I'd like to quote some examples. Here, for example. A recent report published on June 3, which quotes Yngvi Harðarson, the secretary - general of Analytica, who has been specialised in economic analysis for a long time, by permission of a president: ◯Analytica considers over 90% likely that the actual incidence of the kroner will drop considerably over the next two years and a dollar will be given. Yngvi says: It has rarely been higher, and once it has gone this high, it has had a historical tendency to decline rapidly. Over the last 60 years or so, or since 1960, the situation has been five times the height it is in today. In the historical context, this means that about 90% of the cases are likely to be lower in length. The economic presidents of a financial programme are expected to get more real over the years. As we look at what's going on in the economy around us, there are all signs of a trend towards significant economic stability in the long run. Every export industry complains of, whether you look at a fishing road, travel services, technology and wands, or other industrial companies. The competition articles also complain about that. What is more, people are being decomposing and decommissioned. It just tells us that it's not going to work. Travel services have probably exhibited quite a greater tolerability to the experience than you would have dared to hope, but we now see obvious signs in the air that although there is still an increasing number of tourists, although this has been a significant delay, there has been a similar reduction in the use of sleepers. The average time that tourists spend here is reduced and the radius they travel within the southwest corner is smaller, with the related consequences for the economy in the country. It has been just what has been the most positive growth of the growth in tourism that the tourism service has produced economic growth across the country, commercial activity across the country. It is obvious when we look at the state's budget in the light of economic management that in such circumstances the government must put all emphasis on promoting the soft landing that everyone wishes to become. There is not only one party, Analytica, who warns about this. This is warned in the reviews of the German Union, under the review of the Industrial Association, under the review of the Business Association. Really, it is the same theme in all of them: It is completely unrealistic to believe that economic growth will be so strong as this is predicted in view of the situation that we are in the real world. Never before have we been able to maintain economic balance at the point in our real life. If we look at the pictures, there has been consistent correction of the same reality at the point or on the hills we are in today. Whether it happens this year or next year, it is impossible to determine, but once again, look to Yngvi Hardon's Harðarson: There is a 90% probability of severe correction. This means that the prerequisite for public financial gain is turned around by such a change. This is not expected in the budget. I think it is clear that the government will have to revise this budget from scratch in no long time. There will not be room for the expected growth in public funds without any significant tax gain being used to finance their plans. I don't know if this government survives such changes when you see here number one, two and three based on the political interests of the states, to share cases between classes that want to lower taxes and classes that want to increase the level of coherence in the country with the poisonous cocktail to intend to make both at once, which will never work. There are a number of other things that are worth pauseing to worry about. If we look past the obvious and enormous weaknesses as economic grounds and the role of the government is also another very important thing, I would say, in a financial program. To be reasonable, they could also be criticized in the last government, and such criticism is found in a joint comment by a legal committee. It is a complete lack of clear and obvious success decisions and clear goals. This is something I think we have to put together to develop. There is no aim, at least not an acceptable policy goal, simply to increase expenses. We watch, for example. to the health system where it is clear: A health - care crisis, major health costs. But what are we going to do with that money? What results are we going to achieve? How do we speak it? How do we make sure that we have a better health system after, not just a more expensive health care system? That is a matter of concern, especially when we look at the most apparent policy. Healthcare Minister today who has attacked the private condition of the medical system. It can only be seen that part of the system should be squeezed by all means, without any knowledge of whether that system is more efficient or less efficient than the public. There is far too little information on the effectiveness of our health - care system, the health - care results that must be the common goal of all of us, that it serves the peoples of this country to the best. We don't have any financial standards for that. Let us look at the weaknesses that are highlighted here, which include: The land hospital has appointed it. If the land hospital should achieve the goals still set out in a financial programme in their field of work, an additional 50,4 billion would be required in a financial program. I'm not going to evaluate whether it's right and fair or not, but it shows that there's a great lack of the ability to explain the primary objectives, the benefits, and how to achieve them. There are other examples. It's, for example. Regarding the micro-organization system, report that we have not at all enough money to attack the revision of the micro-organization system. If I remember correctly, it's 4 billion for that job. It is good to bear in mind that in view of the fact that we jumped up an older citizen's pension system not long ago, changes that were approved at the 2016 Parliament. Since then, our expenses for pension have increased by over 30 billion, that I think, from 50 billion to about 80 billion. I don't think we can achieve a comparable accounting on the pension system for 4 billion. I think it's quite a long road from there. For example, it is extremely important. As we look ahead, we need a more clear picture of the financial agenda. That is interesting when we consider the work that a financial committee has taken into consideration, however, that we are changing. A greater proportion of the budget does not provide any suggestions for change, no suggestions for improvement in the defected weaknesses, no suggestions to evaluate e.g. any form of income that might show up in it, etc. It is vital that we allow this tool to work for our future, regardless of the government we are in, that the way we act will change. The budget cannot be set up just by the council's authority, which is designed simply to stamp and not to tamper with anything that has been created. We have a lot of money to deal with every year. We'll fix the weaknesses we feel are in them. We listen to visitors who appear to a body board and try to respond in some way. But this is not to be distributed into financial programs. It is as if there should be no contact with her or any change in the order she has received from the company. That's what I think we have to fix. There's one thing I'd like to name under the last one. It is very critical how vague government plans are about tax matters, especially the income tax system. We have heard repeated declarations that income taxes should be reduced by up to 14 billion, even immediately next year, without any application to the new income tax system. We've heard, and that's really the only thing we're seeing out of a financial plan, assumed a 1% decrease in lower level, and there's also talk about other implementations. I'd be happy to hear it if a government that would promote the General Assembly and announce non-political cooperation within the council would contribute to non-political work on a new income tax system. While it is important to consult with the labour market partners, especially the labor movement, about its development, it is also important that smaller and more parts of the workforce agree on how the income tax system should be built up, so that it is not talked about if the concept is going into substantial decoupling on the system. That's why I think it would be a joy to have such a job brought into the council, not just when the government has decided how they want to do it. There are other factors. I'm not going to cross the topic areas each. I've previously said that the priorities of financial planning are very much in harmony with the priorities of the budgeting of the last government, although there is something to add to the expenditures in this situation. It is a transnational agreement to prioritize the state's financial affairs in the interests of health and education. There are obvious weaknesses in the financial program when it comes to our repeatedly highlighted transport system, and it becomes clear that our road system has become seriously lacking, as the discussion of the use of the government on reserve has shown to improve the maintenance of roads. It is clear that much more is needed when we see that economic growth in recent years has been driven by tourists driving the highways and that the number of roads has gone up substantially, but the cost of maintenance has not been the same. After all, this is an irresponsible national budget. It undermines long - term economic stability. It learns no lesson from our 100 - year - old painful history in economic management but, contrary to the repeated failures made on the part of us politicians at exactly this point in the economy. This isn't working anymore. It is long time for politicians to assume economic responsibility. It's no problem trying to satisfy everyone's wishes when there's a good source of money for the sake of a government fund now, the problem is running a government fund that can stand the economic swings that are so high in this country. This requires political courage and responsibility. Sadly, this lacks much in this financial program.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u130	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Wazowski's Víglundsson, excellent speech. Hv. A senator was very careful about the practicality and quoted a fresh report by a group of workers on improved money policy. I would like to state that I have not read the report to the end, mainly the first pages and the results, and I don't have much else to build on. In fact, it's interesting as hell. A senator made it clear that there are two possibilities. I think it's a theoretical approach to just assume that we're here with an Icelandic dollar like today. Then we have two possibilities; continue with the current arrangement and an independent financial policy guided by the inflation policy, or the possibility of establishing a permanent function of the crown by a currency, so that a domestic currency version is then distributed by foreign currency. A restoration, and I'm sure it will. This is the way a senator spoke to them. Has a what? A senator went deeper into his report than the one listed here? The service group assesses that this way would be very dangerous for financial stability. How does that measure? Does that mean that a senator's decision on the course of restoration?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u131	President. Thank you. A senator resists. Because I did not like to do that in my speech, I also want to thank you. A senator and chairman of the budget board for extraordinary good work in connection with the financial programme. Although I severely criticize the conclusions, I can say wholeheartedly that the work was a model and an example of the pre - Christian spirit that would often exist more often during the council. In fact, in view of the decision made by the CREEP Committee, I am in the same situation as what is. A senator that I have come on page. 37, if I remember correctly, I haven't read it fully. It is true, however, that the committee considers more national hazard to the currency policy than improved inflation aims from the present. I don't necessarily agree with the Commission's conclusions on this matter. In fact, a large number of countries have successfully run currency schemes over a long period of time, either as a team or as a support of some kind of currency alliance or entry into a currency union, which has yielded them very economic success. I agree, however, with the conclusion of the material committee that no matter what arrangement we choose, we will always blow it off if we do not follow the rules that apply to us. Of course, it is true that such a policy requires more discipline, both on the part of the labour market parties, and especially on the interests of the government in the economy. There is good reason to be concerned about how we acted in the past if such a course can be set free, or a mine union, if it is to be divided. [[The president calls.]] We will never achieve any success in securing economic stability here anything different from changing the way we work. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u132	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I'm excited to read the report, but I agree. An authority on how to respect the rules and discipline is interesting. We're working on this rule for a moment. Legal committee, public financial law. There is now quite a consistent process, which is a policy and plan of concordance with funding. Then we'll come back in September with the budget. So it's a consistent process. Now we've got a what? A senator seated on both sides as a minister and a senator is now seated. It's a legal committee. How does he see this procedure? The original purpose was to increase the discipline in financial matters so that a relationship between financial policy and money policy can be achieved, long spoken of. Are we not on the right track when we have to make adjustments in our work? This is evident in the opinion of the greater part of the legal committee and in minorities that we have discussed today, as well as in common indications. A committee that was a most praiseworthy contribution to the committee and why. A senator was involved in the molding. I want to take this opportunity at the same time and thank you. A member of the Committee to Re-Elect.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u133	A respectable president. I can say with what. A member of the body suggests that public financial support by the law is greatly improved. We do not heed that setting, but it has at least established measurable standards. And the fact that we have a financial policy here is enormously important. It immediately gives them a very clear clue as to what state they are headed for. The fact that there is a five - year financial program here also plays an enormous role in providing for institutions to see what lies ahead, that it is not just tied up in the budget of each year. The suggestions that were common to the budgetary committees would all be a significant improvement if we were to move a layer toward them. I think they're going to sharpen the very process of all of this. I think it's also a top priority if you look forward to seeing that the budget board is about to deal with financial programs at a time like the Committee has to do with budgets. Today's discussions have shown that the committee lacks basic information from the conferences on how the cost figures are found and what is behind the targets set. Of course, it should be one of the things a budget does to set off either. If goals are not considered to be financial, either a supplement of budget should be made in that field or simply a change of goals and say: They are unrealistic, they will not be reached. But for that, we lack some evidence. But I think that in the final analysis, despite all these refinements in the legal environment and in spite of all the ambitious goals in this regard, we are falling into the traditional moral problem of politics to spend the money that exists.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u134	Mr. President. The budget had much to do with national interests and other matters. It is only a prerequisite, and the key to the financial agenda is the Economics concept. It is, in effect, the sidebar of how we work with it, and we also see the World Bank of Pays, his national interest, rather positive for us for the next few years than for Hausi's predictions. What else should we use in our financial strategy? What does it look like? In this process, is there something that a senator cannot predict? It must always be the basis for everything we're working with. Whatever our view, we cannot take advantage of the restoration, or the economy, of the Independence Party. You can't stick your finger in the air. This has made me feel very important in this work, or, as it were, that you have never had the answer to what people imagine in such a job. Hv. A senator has often talked about toxic cocktails regarding the rate of tax declines to the maximum advantage. Now's another question. If we are generally considered to be at the top of 2016 in the economy, the landing will begin to soften to some extent. I hope it will be such a toucher in time that we go down a little bit and then we get up again, hopefully in a calm condition. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed that the grand climax was 2016? Why, then, is it so fragile now if we are getting in a more calm period of time? Perhaps the main thing to do is what economic or economic predictions we should make use of ourselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u135	President. Thank you. A senator resists. First, what predictions should be used. Of course, that is obvious. We can use no other predictions than public fortune - tellers. Of course, we have to build such work on the outlooks of the expressed office and the Hausp as we are doing. But when we receive them a clear warning that their priorities may be very optimistic or even unrealistic, it calls for the self - image that has been discussed in the budget, to form a stage for something worse, how the government issues would appear in this context. And what is obviously pointed out is that the earth has been carefully stepped down, e.g. In terms of growth, as well as growth, or the self-sustaining of the state's budget, we might have to raise taxes in order to finance this level of cohesion for long periods of time. It is what the present government overlooks in its compromises, looking simply to, yes, we probably can afford this spending level right now. But there is always the same danger. We sometimes talk about foam, I don't want to say foam in the income fund, but we know that income and cost are very economical. Intensification is growing very fast, but when the economy regroups, it also gets very tight. The same applies to expenses, we look for expenses, e.g. for child improvement, growth improvements, and housing improvements, there is a tendency to increase in contractions. The same is evident in terms of unemployment. We need to look at these things and take steps to make sure that if they come, they will respond to their contractions. This should be kept in mind, too, when the strictest financial principle of the law on public financial matters is debt. [[The president calls.]] It doesn't take much to get out of the world so that the state's funds just can't get into any corner because they're in debt.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u136	Mr. President. This is, in fact, exactly what is our major project on financial planning and the discussion of a financial committee at the council and elsewhere. What is our economic reality today? Where are we? So, somehow, there is always something new that comes. And those seven to ten-year-old swings like a dog. A senator talks about, there's always something new in it. Then some new way of falling. The reality now, we may see that the grieving side of the nation's economic situation is very different from that of foreign property and debt and this combination - I have been tireless of talking about tourism, its impact, flying, and so forth, on the economy, how it has developed. It has been an enormous growth and a huge stream of currency in connection with these sectors in the last five, six years in particular. I have found this reality to be a lack of discussion. You can discuss this with our economists, who appear to a financial committee or a person meeting on the road and ask: "What has happened to this new industry, with the tremendous strength of tourism and air traffic? I think the biggest uncertainty may be in the long-term population. We now have new predictions or new numbers, and the number of passengers in the Atlantic between the United States and Europe is mainly increasing. What does it say? A senator for the new reality - he is economically educated - about this role and changed reality? How should we try to discern the situation that has come up today and whether it has not really changed in our economic situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u137	President. I think that the most common statement in all the economic surges is: this time it's different. The most common conclusion in the down cycle is: No, it wasn't. That's right, and I'm not going to downplay the tremendous benefits we've gained from our tourism on the upcoming and amazing to see that we have a new foundation for the economy, a very strong support. I have full faith that it will be permanent, although it will without doubt go through moods like any other industry, but we see that it is exactly the same economic law as the other sectors of the country. We can see that similar to other exports, strong trials have also begun to hurt much of the tourism. It is shrinking, and there is a delay, and the travellers spend less and so on the streets. So we must always be careful about the same things. The same economic issues apply in the end. The same is true of our airlines in the competition over the sea. If their pay costs are too high, they will not be competitive. Their plans are still to make significant improvements in their transport. I really hope that the plans for them are going well and that they will succeed. But then, like other exports, we also need to maintain a stable environment. In this context, it can be pointed out that, of course, the price of such a situation is high. In fact, aircraft fuels are increasing at a high rate today, and the cost for these airlines, such as all other airlines in the world, is rising. It's always the same thing. We need to be on guard against stability. In the end, our cost of sacrifice is this vast instability of the 100 - year - old. The spades never grow and thrive. As a result, professional life becomes much more monotonous. It doesn't have to be like that. We can create much more stability, as in financial expenses and interest. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u138	A respectable president. I feel a little bit like Saint Frans frá Assisi, who was told that he was preaching to the birds and hoping that they would somehow get there, even though they did not exactly listen to him. I'm here preaching to these wealthy chairs, mostly. I thank you, of course. Congressmen for sitting and listening, but I have hoped these rich chairs will somehow accept what I have here to say and pass it on. We have heard many good talks on the basis of financial, economic, and economic programmes. I'm going to approach this from a slightly different direction, use the time I have to make a subject of what concerns those committees where I sit and focus especially on what is in the educational part of that committee. Government contracts promise major structures in areas that have long been neglected, especially in educational and cultural matters. We've often heard of a big education campaign by government officials. In view of this, this financial program leads to some disappointment. Thus, contributions to college will not reach goals for the average OECD countries and then for the Northern States during the period as promised and all classes will be praised for elections. And in the university, construction projects on the House of Icelandic students are very large and expensive, as well as financial contributions to the field of language technology. These are projects to celebrate, but it may be dangerous to calculate them directly as contributions to college. For high school, extra funds will be spent only on the level of the amount of money saved from the shorter secondary school days. Art and cultural contributions will probably directly decrease over time. Similarly, in the country, contributions to law enforcement will not respond to the need for more people in the police department, as we have heard a great deal about recent growth, both in the face of increasing travel currents and in many new projects in an increasingly complex world. It is happy that funding is being provided in the sex - treatment strategy, but it cannot be said that this strategy has been fully financed because it has not been fully evaluated. Thus, the government's ambition for the media, the protection of individuals' rights is lacking, and it seems that there is little interest in improving the status of foreigners and prisoners in the period. But I'm going to be making it a subject of this financial program in terms of culture, art, sports, and youth, as it is called. " By permission of the President, " says a report with the plan: The first changes in the topic field are explained by the emphasis of the Law covenant. These include raising of donations due to project on speech technology, building up the three main collections in order to strengthen the management of joint and specific projects and contributions to support the artist's labour and project fund. In view of these words, it is noteworthy that contributions to this whole area of the matter should decrease over time. It also says, with permission from the President: In education and culture, there is a high level of growth in university contributions in accordance with the Government Convention. There was an increase of over 2 billion dollars in college. ... inthelawsof 2018. The total increase in budgetary donations is expected, but contributions to the range are raised by more than 2.8 billion. in accordance with the aim of the Government's declaration that contributions to college will reach the average OECD levels. In the field of culture and art, more than 750 million will be spent. K. to conduct a language management programme during the planned period but in the past it has reached a maximum of 500 million. K. The project has been spent. Despite these efforts, there is still some lack of money to reach the average OECD levels in the season, let alone Iceland be above the center or approach to other northern states. The grammatical project is said to be in the financial capacity. Yet, there have been voices that may be missing at a mere half a billion dollars. to make this plan more valuable. The financial program declares willingness to strengthen the three museums, National Museums, Art Museum, and Natural Museum of Iceland. In particular, it is stated that there will be a need to deal with the Museum of Nature during the period to celebrate. Yet, there is nothing in this regard, but it is a reason to remind you that there is no shortage of a nation so heavily dependent on nature that there is no collection of Icelandic nature. In fact, such a museum existed at the end of the 19th century, hosting at the home of the poet and naturalist Benedikt Gröndalur. We're his second boat these days. The National Museum is responsible for 60 locations throughout a country that is in a wide range of conditions. There are many opportunities, but also most challenging challenges, which must not be any longer, for there are high levels of cultural value at stakes that will not be recovered. Perhaps a conflict between local management and museum managers and collecting income stocks is unclear as the collections are given a very rich obligation on business and maintenance. It is very important to ensure the maintenance of these sites and to build up, but it does not take place in a financial programme. It is important to note that the collections in many parts of the country can play a much greater role in tourism. It is not particularly about the high financial resources that our textbooks have enjoyed over the past few years, so that they have not been able to buy new or recent books for students to read, which have been able to read again, to read, to read, to read, and even to read regularly among youths. The context between reading skills and participating in reading each day appears to have not been identified by the authorities. To date, books are very good tools for reading. The state has various cultural institutions. They create, as we know, a foundation for a wide range of national cultural and artistic activities, and they serve all citizens of the country, as well as some administrations in their domains. A financial program is designed to improve access to culture and art so that more people can enjoy their quality. This is praiseworthy, although the design of such plans is not something to be seen. The government radio is among these cultures. It has been run in the past year by a very strange business arrangement called by an official partner. I have to admit that I lack the economic skills to understand that. This is a partner where there is only one party. As a result, the Agency's section on the media services and reports that it will focus on increasing the production of Icelandic cultural and game materials for children and adults and talking about increasing production by independent manufacturers and buying from them. All of this is praiseworthy. There is no question about the importance of the Agency in the development and commercial development of filmmaking in the country and in modern cultures and it is urgent that the Agency has the strength to be such, to be a filmmaker, and to be a commercial creation there such a sponsor and strength. All changes in the organisation's revenues must be considered in this light, the light of its cultural role. Nowhere in a financial program has it been concluded that there is one of the largest and most remarkable collections in the country. There are recordings on records and tapes that reach back to 1930 C.E. that contain priceless cultural and historical value. It is very important that this collection be made in a digital format as soon as possible and available to the public on the Agency's website. It would be an honor to the general body to find companies to care for it. For example, education funds are limited in many ways. I'd like to submit words from the U.S. Union of America's Artists by permission of the President: ▪ A single group finances tasks from funds such as a platform fund, a music fund, or a movie fund, and then it is the artist's job wage that can be referred to as the cornerstone of the artistic profession. The institutions and project funds are on the verge of being able to live up to their responsibilities today. On with the President's permission, the artists continue: The money fund is what burns most in artists, it is the basis for an art form in the country, and while we are so busy with initiative projects to control matters that have been under control, but it's certainly needed, we see the salary of the job. The labour fund and project fund are laid down in the cultural structure, producing stability and progress in artists'work. I agree with these words and point out that these funds have been replaced for nine years, even spoiled, as stated by the Union of Icelandic artists. It is time to strengthen them again and respond to these artistic emphasis and indications. There is a reason to welcome in particular the establishment of a grammar fund, which we all hope to develop in software that will enable us to continue using the Icelandic language in our daily lives as time and communication with tools and instruments continue to grow. I don't think I'm going to make a special subject of sports and juvenile society or the media, that's probably what others will do, but I'm going to go to school a little bit and cover them in high school. According to Iceland's Teacher Association on Financial Plans, according to figures from Haust Iceland, public spending due to high school has been brought together as a proportion of GDP to real value and to each individual, especially after failure. However, over the years, public spending for high school decreased as a proportion of GDP by 8.1%, to an absolute value of 6.6% and 11.1% per person. The financial program for 2019,2023 suggests that these contributions are expected to be somewhat increased in line with the promise of high education, but mainly these increases are here, so that they are not available to reduce the financial resources of high school that were saved by the shorter study periods as previously planned. The textbook notes that because of three years of short study and reduction in riverways, a large reduction in the number of seniors in high school to 2020 is seen in its review, leading to higher contributions per year to unchanged financial contributions. However, it is not an actual gain to the school level. There is reason to agree with the Teacher Union when it says that it is difficult to see that this change is sufficient to build up schools after long periods of money. Both teaching and learning must be improved and supporting. The statue has also bitten students, as we know. It has bitten services and new equipment, and most important, it has set aside the production of textbooks at every school level, so it can be spoken of as being a monster in that area. Not all will die with an effect of a shortened study period to a student's test, but it is urgent that the assessment of a procedure that does not seem to have resulted in the reduction of student deletion as planned. As a result of school compression and a longer school day, stress has increased greatly, allowing less time for social and leisure activities. The effect of this shortcut has been evaluated on academic offers, preparation for university, language skills, and the status of Icelandic students when compared with their foreign peers. Under these points, music programs are also being taught, but for them there are laws on financial support in music schools that attend music schools that are driven by rural society and others who are enjoying that strength. There is no statement in the financial programme of the government's plans in matters of great importance. I'm not gonna have any more words on that. I remind you of the simple commitment made to the political parties before the last election that contributions to the university were to reach the standards of OECD 2020 that are not to be followed. [[The president calls.]] I will finally remind you of the housing problem of Iceland's National Institute of Art, which is urgent to correct, but I have no further comment on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u139	A respectable president. In view of the greater portion, where the reviews of all professional committees are included as accompanying documents, the work base for all topics on p. 11th For example, it says that degrees are rising from 41 billion to 46 or less than 14%. Here we go. A senator into it, and it has come into account in terms of the greater and lesser part of the General and Education Committee, that this does not reach the goal of reaching the average OECD and much of the northern countries. I wanted to add only this point: Economic growth at the same time - on as questionable terms as has been drawn, i.e. that it lasts - it's also less than 14%. In effect, the change from budgeting 2017 to plan 223 - that is, I just took the economy in years of financial planning and had to add to the interest rate of 2018 as well. Well, then, it's an absolute decrease in economic growth compared to these figures. It is not enough to increase, considering GDP, the share of the college level in this, let alone the high school stage; if we take this period and add 2018, we are reducing it to GDP, we are moving it farther off the average OECD. Maybe I wanted a little talk about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u140	Thank you. A senator of this clear indication, which I don't see, and I think is absolutely correct. In fact, I think it's quite a concern how college has been played in this country for years, well, well, well, well, it's a lot of money, how it's been run. It appeared in many ways, for example, that I did not allow time to enter my talk, it has been run with practice teachers and doctors who have had to engage in public education excessively at a university level. Although they have been in the poor business at work, the university has not trusted to hire the people who must be hired to do research and teaching well. Both the science and the quality of this university have been affected. This is also shown by the fact that when doctors finish their tests, they have to remind themselves to disappear, unable to rely on positions within the university because they simply cannot replace normal ones. This well - being of the university and university degrees shows how important it is to raise a substantial amount of money to the university and improve their economic conditions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u141	A respectable president. There are many interesting things here regarding government policy at this university, for example. However, there have also been adjustments in school, now the last of three years of reduced secondary education. In connection with policy development, policy development, it is interesting to consider the changes that have become the focus of the Science and Technology Council as they were and are now. It is now said that the policy should be taken or taken into account, but the previous policy was much more targeted, expected. It's as if the tray had it, it doesn't seem possible to fulfill it. It sounds to me like there's an urgent need for education, a complete study of education and how it works for us, a request for increased education, and taking it into this, how it fits into the university system, etc. It's a government policy, like a sledgehammer. A senator came in for the renewal, to increase the proportion of women among professors, and to increase the proportion of academic workers under 40 years of age. I found this to be an interesting goal and asked for it on a financial committee. I was wondering if there had been a similar debate in the General and Education Committee, how to achieve the rate of increase among professors from 30% to 40% in these six years, and to increase the proportion of academic workers under 40 years of age by 6%. If that was the case, I would be interested in hearing it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u142	A respectable president. Now I have to admit that I have not been reminded that there has been a discussion within the General and Education Committee on the exact issues involved. A senator asks this question, how can it be done to increase the lot of women and young scribes? But these are both very worthy, noble, and essential goals. I repeat what I said here earlier, it's a concern how late and difficult it has been to contribute to normal renewal within the university simply because when employees give up working for years, they don't save in business, hire new employees in their place, but the work continues to run on very subsidized practice classes and doctors. This takes on a great deal of academic work and the quality of teaching within the university.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u143	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech is excellent. We agree on much when it comes to art, culture, and education. I just wanted to get into college contributions, which I think we should do. A senator will also agree that there will always be a higher and the maximum. It turns out that students in the years that follow, both because of less years of walking and the same changes I think I and I have. A senator would also agree that there was an inconsistencies. The number of seniors is getting smaller. Each student's donations increase considerably more than its totals. Otherwise, I wanted to get a little guidance by reason of it. Senator. I heard him do quite well in various cultures and especially in his talk. Again we argue. A senator would be interested there. I couldn't have heard better than that. A senator would have done quite well with the various collections and all the way down to the U.S. Radio CDC. Library, which I thought was true of most of the government of rural society. At least they're in elementary schools. But I just wanted to ask. A senator: Where does he see in this financial program that he does not make sufficient contributions to the collections he made in his talk?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u144	A respectable president. I'm trying to remember - it was very short and quick and a nice talk at the mouth. A senator, yet I am now taken out of my mind what was the exact question about high school. [[Up front.]] - There was no question, was there any more meditation?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u145	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u146	Right. But I think we share our vision of it and that it was delirium, like that. One senator expressed it, shortening high school in its rash manner. I wouldn't agree with the expression "all the way down" into the U.S.R.T.R.S.S.S.S.S.R.S.S.S.R.T.T.T.T.T.P.I. A senator used. I think it's one of the nation's top museums, although it doesn't have such a formal position. It is an example of a museum that has been neglected for many years and is damaged because money has not been given to make it properly dressed. I took this collection as an example because, like a boy. So I met a member of the council quite well in my former profession. However, I did not argue in my speech, I may have expressed myself vaguely, that the three museums were a sum of money or a sharp object in this financial program. I mentioned, however, regarding a Museum of Nature that it was fun to see further implementation of the government's plans to promote it and make it grow and prosper. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u147	A respectable president. Hv. A senator has misunderstood something, or I have not spoken clearly enough if it came out as if I thought the U.S. radio tape was something to go down into, that it had something to do with the importance of doing. I've used it quite a bit myself. The reason why I mentioned it was that when I listened to a talk, it took my mind and attention. Senator. What I mean, however, is when I talk about a score-top down to the museum, which is why we're here dealing with financial plans, not financial laws. I have never seen anywhere in a financial program that this museum or the other get extra money or that they don't get less, they don't get enough, or that there might be more. Which, of course, is something that can be read with good attention from financial sources. That's why I asked. A senator to put me through it, because I had somehow taken it that way, it wouldn't be the first time I understood things in quite a hurry, that here we are covering the total pay frames to certain lawsuits. Hv. In his talk, a senator wrote a few words about it. That's why I'm asking where you can see the place in the case we're dealing with here, i.e. The national budget for the next five years, each of these individual collections and, in fact, more institutions or teams at the same time. In his fine speech, a member of the body made an offer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u148	A respectable president. The financial program covers various institutions that require donations from the budget of the years prepared in financial programmes. These include, of course, the three main collections that took place here, the National Museum of Iceland, the National Museum of Iceland, the National Museum of England, and the Museum of Natural Museum of Iceland. However, I took advantage of this opportunity, reminding myself that there are other collections that need someone to remember them and that they are strengthened. Hv. I forgot to mention earlier that I specifically mentioned schools and their long - term financial resources. I mentioned in particular the reading problem that has existed here for a few years and pointed out that it would be a means of promoting such museums that will be involved in the fight against illiteracy. It may be that such discussions do not belong under a different hat. No doubt we will discuss it more later and in a more appropriate way. I believe, though, that such museums are worth it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u149	We agree in collections.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u150	A respectable president. I'd like to say a few words about the financial program in 2019-22023 and put aside some factors. A budget is a fundamental plan to establish a government policy. It shows her priorities in financial matters until the next five years. So there's a lot underneath. The government's financial policy was adopted in March. The financial agenda should be based on it. A budget is proposed by a government for the General Assembly, as stated in Article 5. is about public financial matters. Each year's budget is the top layer in this interaction, which, of course, should adapt to the overall picture and fall into the foundations of which these conclusions predict. The budget is based on what the economy will be like in the future, and this includes the World Health Organization's national forecast of future economic growth. A growing economy is expected to continue and that the present Icelanders will survive the longest continuous economic growth in the history of Iceland. However, there are signs that might lead to a dream break in that relationship, and I mention several things there. I mention a slower growth in tourism; the number of overnight stays decreased by 7% in April. From the same time last year. In spite of the increase in income, I am decreasing the value of fishing, but in 2017, the value of fishing was reduced by 17.3% compared to the previous year. From October 2016, I am reporting the increase in the rate of product exchange balances, rising raw prices, and uncertainty about the development of pay. Careful monitoring of the progress is necessary in this case. The good news is that it works well to pay off the debt of the state fund, and it is assumed afterward. The money we paid on interest from that loan is better available for more necessities. Main investments are new Lands Hospitals, the construction of Hussician, the construction of tourist facilities, the wedding of the Landland Guard, and the construction of nursing homes. All the best. It's not just the expenses we're talking about here, it's the income. It'll make me mention one thing we've been fighting for in the Gang of the People, i.e. The joust line. It is unmistakably that continuing work after the age of sensibilities increases the prospects of the elderly to improve their prowess, especially those with the lowest income, and is desirable for those who want and can work longer. Research has shown that work and effectiveness in later years contribute to better health, reduced isolation, and generally have high social value for older citizens. Thus, this is a clean - grown public health issue for this age group. Thus, in December 2017, a group of people proposed a bill that the payment of a pensioner will not be impaired because of employment, according to Article 23. Act on social security. The current arrangement, for the failings of the elderly, has been criticized and has been required by the bodies of older people as well as by other bodies of the stakeholders to eliminate the shortage of older citizens. Dr. Haukur Arnþórsson, who worked on the financial situation of the elderly for the older citizen Fégá in Reykjavík, wrote on his study in the morning of November 23, 2000. It shows that neglect of pension payments does not have to include additional financial expenses, and it may well be that the government's funds could be of financial benefit to the operation. The majority of the welfare committees have referred to a minister, and this has been taken from a judicial channel in unprecedented fashion here at the council, according to one experienced man. Since I'm starting to mention our case here from the Gang of the People, I may mention one of our election terms, which is about the income of individuals who do not reach 300,000 dollars. low taxes will be tax free, not losing that income for minimal progress. Stands by the people's party to a pact proposal on this subject. The proposal means that financial and economic secretarys will set up a timed schedule to make individual income below 300,000 dollars. Residents of income taxation and the fact that its bill will be submitted no later than before the end of 2018. It is normal that the first step towards this goal lies in the transfer of funds within the income tax system, with a decline in personal discount as income increases and falls at a level of income anywhere above a million per month. But a lower amount of money might be considered in that regard. The savings this will generate within the tax system will be used to increase the characterization of the lowest income groups. It's just a simple move. On the basis of current tax laws, a personal discount is 53,895 k. per month. This means that the taxation limit per month is 151,978 k. Relative to wage transplant recipients with 4% pension time. Minimum advance will be estimated as little as 300,000. and can be counted at least too high, considering the development of housing costs over the years and years. This means that in accordance with current legal requirements on income taxes, income is not due to minimum tax payoff. According to one reference work, poverty is taxing. There is no state that wants to be identified in the well - being of this kind of taxation. This decree of our assembly was submitted with the aim that people will be made to survive better, and no one will need to see a tax deduction from income that cannot meet the needs of the needy. The case was referred to the Economic and Business Committee that has requested reports. Is it there now? I'm going to do a little research on infrastructure, especially transportation and law enforcement. A majority of the financiers talk about transport initiatives as a major focus of the strategy and believe that by means of the transport spending, much of the demand and need for needed transport improvements are being met. Over the past few years, there have been overemphasis and almost all of us agree that a great deal of effort is needed to correct matters. There is no such effort in the available financial program. The programme will include a similar proportion of land production at the time of the next five years, and it has been in the past five years, which is a great need. In order to meet the needs of maintenance and newinvestments, transportation contributions need to be increased permanently. Besides, it takes effort to cope with a cumulative problem, which has been shown many times. According to the programme, average road contributions will be 0.7% of land production during the 5 year period of the programme. Is it far below the long - term average in this country, but this ratio exceeded 1% in the first decade of this century? Governments have said that the coming years are taking major steps in transport. That statement appears to be due to the fact that the financial program assumes that special annual donations are being added to three - year allowances of 5.5 billion. However, these three years, including these 5.5 billion long - term averages of transportation, do not cover the above words, such as some kind of reverse report. It may also be that as this three - year - old period has passed, the investment rate in roadways goes down to less than 0.6% of national production, but only one year in recent decades has been lower than that in 2012. Industrial organizations call attention to this, in their comments to the budget committee, that transport and rural government ministers have recently presented more than 220 billion dollars. lack of maintenance and new investments in the road system. In addition, the annual maintenance need of 11 billion is 55 billion, a total of 55 billion. the period of the above strategy. Total, therefore, is over 280 billion dollars. in maintenance and new investments, as shown in the review of the Industrial Association. The plan expects a total of 114 billion dollars. in the maintenance and innovation of transport in the time of the programme. It is only nearly 41% of need, says the Industrial Association's review to the budget board, where it is crazed by saying that it cannot be deemed as a big effort. The industrial organization points out that due to the growth of income from international tourists over the past few years, it can be said that the Icelanders have never built prosperity as much as they have now built on the road system. At the same time, the U.S. government has said that these matters are less than ever. If it indicates a wrong priorities for government affairs. Madam President. There are many of us who are interested in the company of road users. All of us are affected by the situation of the road system. The roads of the land are crumbling down and calling for services and services everywhere. The missions are gone. What are these basic roads? You have to finish the Buvystone Way from Hafnarfjörður right up to the airport. This must be done in an acceptable way from the Grand Way. It has to double the road out of the capital city of Kjalarnes, and then it is acceptable to the highway entrance to the citynes. It's a new waterway. They have to make a new Havenan tunnel a growing round. You have to finish up on Hellishi Road. The road between Whoas and Selephos must be completed in order to be acceptable. A new bridge must be built and weighed in harmony with Alpha River. When will this urgent assignment become a reality? Unfortunately, that seems to be a delay. The government's spending every year in this section of 5.5 billion for three years. This is done after the current transport program was not fully funded last year. Finally, the reserve is good. He's half-barred, from which he took 4 billion for the road. It's a special subject, this treatment of the reserves, and more cracks. It's been impressed by members of the council. Of course, that a minister can reach the reserve without carrying it under the council is a failure, and putting it into his power to interpret that the terms of public funds are met for individual expenses will make the reserve like a minister when individual matters need to be handled, regardless of whether any particular disaster is involved. Madam President. The financial programme accounts for a 7% increase in contributions to police issues and related issues. Under that heading, there's also prosecution and land cover, and there's more to it. 7% increase in absolute value over the next five years It's also assumed that there are investments, and I mentioned an earlier helicopter bargain for D.A. Where does this lead us? This leads to the fact that contributions to the police are not increasing to a greater extent in the next five years. The same stillness is being proclaimed, the increase in sexual abuses, and the rest of the story. The majority of the General and Education Committee of the Parliament adds, in their opinion of financial policy, emphasising the efforts of raising funds to the police, including the U.S. ... togeneralenforcement. It also shows that there was still a considerable amount of money for the police to reach real value in 2007. General and educational committees believe that there is an urgent need to increase the legal resources, including the U.S. Due to increased pressure, and the need to increase the number of police officers. For many years the local police have endured money so that all the standards for adequate police spending have been dropped for years and even decades at the same time as the police's work has increased. They have spoken more complex words, and the number of tourists and the number of tourists has increased substantially, but police officials have not increased. A bear is the object of the law in a country that's prepped. Not to mention the urgent need for police officers in the South because of frequent accidents and heavy travellers in that area. It is safe to say that law enforcement funds are not at all sufficient to guarantee the work conditions necessary in today's society. The urgent need for an increasing number of police officers, as is shown by a number of reports, e.g. A 2012 Internal Affairs Report on the state of the police where the police's main problem was thought to be a reduction in the number of police officers. There is no need to expand the importance of the basic role of the police, which is to ensure safety of the city, to prevent crime, to investigate it, but also to its services, support and support, as well as its role in cooperation with other society institutions in many ways. I haven't mentioned the public defense role of the police. Over the decades, much and varied changes have been made in society. Increasing internationalization and large - scale travel and migration have resulted in the fact that police work in general has become more difficult and more complex. According to a recent U.S. Marshal's survey published last October, the predictable evolution of organized crime, including international crime, thus extending its fragrance, drug sales, human halls, prostitution, and so forth, is under way. The department believes that there will be a continuation of this trend and, in effect, an ongoing situation. It is important that the police be made available to organize their work on the basis of analysis of local and international developments where violations and other law enforcement problems must be sought in order to prevent them. Finally, it should be noted that threats are not only anticipated; the police must also be strong enough to deal with unknown threats that may arise suddenly. Therefore, the police need to be sufficiently strong in the area of safety and so flexible that they have the potential to cope with dangers that are not before them. According to the above - mentioned report presented for presentation at the General Assembly, 236 police officers were missing from the U.S. police force. The report on the work of a committee arranged on the basis of Congress resolution from the Council of June 19, 2012. The Commission concluded that police would need a huge increase. The report lists priorities within the police - the number at the top of the number of public police officers, i.e. Officers in charge of calling and general police control. A U.S. Marshal concluded that there would be a minimum of 860 officers in the country. It stated that the number of policemen in 2007 was 712, which decreased to 624 in 2012, or about 88 police officers. The report suggests that there is an increase in the need for more policemen in the country at that time and that there is a need to increase the number of police in the country by about 236 to 2017, or almost 38%. What has been the development? In 2016, police officers were almost as many as four years earlier. According to the report, the police today will be about 660. They are still fewer than 11 years ago; more than 200 police officers are still missing. This has been for decades and years. At the same time, if the number of local police officers is compared to that of the population, the number of police that occurred in 2007 was 1.6 police officers per 1,000 inhabitants, whereas in 2016 there were 1.4 to a thousand inhabitants. The need for police funding to increase enough to increase the number of police officers at least in accordance with what the committee considered necessary in 2012. There is no evidence in a financial program that the government has plans to achieve that goal and, in fact, a long distance away. Legal justice, which is listed under the entrance that the government intends to promote - what is the status of law enforcement? For years, it has called for more men, pointing to the importance of public and visible law enforcement. For years. The country's police are now fewer than 11 years old, and more than 200 police officers were reported to be missing. I reiterate my call after the country's advanced police force. I also wanted to mention the county office, but for the sake of the time, I don't seem to have many seconds to do that. Perhaps that's what I'm doing in my second speech on the same subject. But I reiterate that in recent years 26 were 15 years ago, there are nine today. [[The president calls.]] Pronunciation agencies in the region have fallen substantially, and they have become ill. [[The president calls.]] They don't have enough funds for them. It has to be fixed. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u151	Mr President would like to be kind to you. A senator is required to use the proper comment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u152	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti for his speech. He came in there on subjects that I'm interested in, including In recent years and decades, the police business was well aware of how much they have made up. He also referred to the regular demands of the Supreme Authority as being now being added. Unfortunately, it seems that there are always fewer results and the numbers are getting weaker. At any rate, the budget is extremely limited. I am eager to hear what I have heard. paritaprevir Hjaltason Gautiçi at the end of the talk said that he was not able to get over this speech because of lack of time, which is the state of the county settlements. Not long ago, they were reduced. This was to strengthen them, increase expertise within each office, and if I recall correctly, each unit was to be more functional and to enhance speciality within them. Where it is. A senator is a former county official who wants me, okay? paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason, to ask how he seems to have been developing in that environment, and, unfortunately, whether the funds and positions of these combined organizations evolved in a manner similar to what we have seen in a relatively long period of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u153	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason very much for this answer. About the county office, if I start with that. They were 26 years ago, maybe 20 years ago, 26 across the country. Not in each area, but in each area, there was a businessman who was a senior foreman in the province and people came to him. There were no lawyers at all, at least not then, but people could search this office and receive instructions at least and extensive assistance to a variety of things. Then it was united, some office laid down, and then united as well as what the police were separated from the county office. By then they were reduced to nine, had actually declined slightly before they had done so. I thought it was a little far gone because I thought all along it would be wise to have stronger units, especially in more scattered areas. Then the same man could serve as both a businessman and a sheriff. That was my opinion, but it was now. But it is very important to strengthen this office so that they do not die to their Lord as they have so far. It's nine now. There is a real danger that, as it is being done, if the funds are drawn together. Very many of them are fired at great angles. They are not assigned as promised. It was promised, both in the reduction of the number and in the separation of police from county officials, that further work would be put on the remainder of the office. [[The president calls.]] It hasn't worked out.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u154	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason for the answer. I'm afraid that the senator's opinion is similar to the development of the county people who see me. I think we need to make sure that the unity becomes stronger, both financially and as far as professional knowledge is concerned. It was, as we know, the purpose of these changes and the harmony of the times. I want to go back to it as a boy. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason came in about the police office. What does that mean? A member of the council that we would need to reach out to the extent that the government's goals have taken place in recent years would provide for a case that would be counterreformable. Is it bringing back the number of people who used to be? See what? A senator imagined that there is a desirable ratio to be reached? I'm interested in his viewpoint on these matters because of his previous work. Because it matters. You can hear it from all angles, at least in the district I represent, that there is a great need to support the police forces, to promote them in every way, both financially and professionally, as well as in the numbers of police officers. Then I reiterate the question, "What does it look like? " A senator needs to be the goal that should reach within the five - year cycle of the currently discussed budget?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u155	A respectable president. The objective of the government regarding the police has not been established. They're waiting for a law enforcement program. It's been waitin' for it - I'm not going to claim how many years, but I've been waiting for a legal program to be submitted for quite some time. I don't know that it has appeared yet, but it's been working a long time. She was also involved when I was working with the police. She's not here yet. Then she was on her final meters. The aims for the number of policemen are not clear at all, but the reports that have been published, including the State Department, have been published. Working to, as I discussed in my speech earlier, have revealed the opinions of the police on this subject. It is estimated that 200, 300 police officers are needed to fill these needs. I won't tell you if there's any right talk in this, but it's considered very good law enforcement if there's two policemen on every thousand people, very good law enforcement. We've got a 1.4 now. So you can see that there's sky and ocean between us. I'm not going to tell you that two police officers on a thousand people are the most accurate people we could watch, but we have to watch some other factors. Here in Iceland, we have rescue teams. It's a natural factor that matters when we're trying to figure out the power of the police, how important it is to keep the police strong. Another important factor is that it is not just a rescue force, in the vast majority of other lands, there is an army to respond if there is a great need. So, of course, it would have to be compared. I could talk about this for a long time. But as for the county office, there is also one idea that I would like to cast forward and that is not new: There is a lot of government agencies all over a country that is separate and that may work much better together. The administrative organisation can be supported by uniting work in these institutions. [[The president calls.]] I'll just mention the Labour Office and the Work Programme, Fish Service, Environment Agency. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u156	Madam President. Let's talk about it. paritaprevir Gauti Hjaltason is particularly interesting because he deals in a more precise way than has been heard in some people about certain issues that are the police case. You're absolutely right. A senator says that the police hear what we would call wood, but the police play a fundamental role in maintaining law and order and security. It is once that for those who do not know very well about police matters, it is very interesting to get insight into them. That's what happens. A senator has long experience and expertise in the field, as far as I know it, has been a businessman, a police officer, and the principal of the police school. That's why I'm interested in getting a little deeper to hear from it. A senator's view of the consequences, the result of social consequences, and the work that the police are about to fulfill when there is a lack of the human resources he so thoroughly covered in his speech, as well as in historical light. It is a long list of forms of neglect that have resulted. I want a previous answer. A senator by the result of this and what options he can possibly see in the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u157	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson of Isle has answered. What is the result of this for police work? That's obvious. Police are closer and closer to becoming so - called police officers, as was the case in the old age when they were waiting for a call. If we don't have enough men, that's how it ends. They keep on calling jobs and are unable to do any of the initiative work. That's the first result. The police are struggling with the requests to come to her, when priorities are received, and other actions are pushed aside. If tests do not have enough force, they prioritize there. Depression is pushed aside because the fight is rather involved, and then the fight is pushed aside because it is more involved in sexual immorality. So there will be a lot of issues and topics. You don't want to do what you want, or you don't have insurance, you don't have time to do it. They're just lighting fires, and they're taking the biggest fires first, of course. This is the first thing that happens. A matter comes up and piles up. That is the most obvious result. Other consequences lead to reduced safety. As a result, the sense of safety of the cities declines. Well, that's in short, isn't it? Senator. Another thing that happens and has happened in Iceland: When you weigh the need for law, the country is spread and transport is bad in many places, especially in winters. It is unacceptable when so few policemen are unable to care for more scattered areas and perhaps even be one police officer in a very large area.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u158	Madam President. Thank you. For the answer, a member of the body makes clear, clear, and insight that he provided into this important group of subjects. This is linked to the county office. This is what I can report, and I'm afraid it's been discussed at the scene. The General Fundament Committee. It is thus stated that in the opinion of the greater part, which could have quite accessed the joint tips and suggestions, which discuss the 10th topic areas, which are the rights of individuals, religion and the management of the Ministry of Justice, says, by permission of the president: The ◆ The more part shows that an adequate management ground has not been established in the county, and it is urgent to correct it as soon as possible. If the management and services are not successful, then the Ministry should look for other ways to balance the operation. That's why I want to ask you why. A senator, referring to his experience and knowledge of this important subject: What is behind it? What organizational adjustments are there, and what government and services could the senator envision that he could enter this office with the objective, as it says, to create an adequate management ground for the state of the county?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u159	A respectable president. It is good for a financial committee to call for a response to the great problem that the Commission truly has in store. They're pulling together. I've heard they're really getting their sails together, especially in the country. When an assignment was to be moved to the county office, a few years ago, it was not successful. A small project was delivered from the Ministry of Justice, or Department of Internal Affairs, to several districts. These were usually, but not in all cases, relatively small tasks. But I'd like to point out a very good job that was being done, that's longer since, maybe, maybe, 10 to 15 years ago, when the collection centre of fines and charges was brought under the County Commissioner of Blebosse. It has been accomplished extremely well and more has been done, but there is, of course, much more to be done. There's a lot of opportunities out there. I want to point 'em. A senator may want to look a little beyond the Justice Department and other departments because there was no response. I think I can claim that almost no projects came from any other scheme than the Ministry of Education itself. Usually it was a small project, as I mentioned earlier. I mentioned in the previous conversation that there are opportunities. I named Fish Room, they got men around the country that's on their own under Fish Room. I can name a customs guard out of the country, under the toll manager, of course. Other examples are the EEA, Organization, Work Programme, Work Programme. There are a lot of employees running around the country with a work station, or not, that can be added to a businessman's approval. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u160	Madam President. It's been a great business discussion here today on a budget plan. I'm just going to go over what the more part of it means. The figures have been discussed, at least of members of the Committee's Interpretation, about the prognostications. I don't mean to say that they were made little, but I think we're all agreed that we need to make bigger models. The plan is based on the National football Organization from February 2018. It shows that the tensions in the population are decreasing and that there is a reduced risk of overheating the economy. The predictions assume that the economic system will adjust from the intensive growth of the total projections over the past few years to the slower growth of the next year and remain well balanced over time. Iceland's National Institute of Economics is in itself very similar to other economic forecasts, both the Federal Bank and the World Bank, which, however, assumes in terms of more economic growth over the next three years. Price prospects are a little more practical, as indicated by the Federal Bank than in Haguems and AGS projections, but AGS also estimates that unemployment increases faster as economic activities slow down. None of these people or others predicting an economic advance in Iceland are expected to make rapid economic declines over the next few years. A report published this morning, which speaks of the general good and likely to reduce tension, shows that there is no need for special adaptation or landing of the economy in which imbalances have not developed, as often after a long period of expansion. This is because the uplift has not been committed to the same degree as before. It may be said that the report will provide a stronger basis for financial planning and, along with decreasing employment investment, increase government investments. In praxís, the Ministry of finance has made a deal with the Haust for cooperation in the process of information sharing in the development of projections and scenarios. The development of a national economy is being prepared in view of government interests. The living room is working to define the project and promote a forecasting team, as shown in the highest court case. The President of the Council here today. He discussed how this worked out for the council, and I hope that it will succeed. But we all know that predictions are not infallible. They may last for a year or two something like that, especially in a small country like ours. It does not change, however, that these projections tend to look for balance in long - term calculations, but of course, there may be variations. According to our assessment of this administrative work, we feel that the economy can adapt to a slower growth and then continue in a more balanced pace, but, of course, all the economists must lie down on one thing so that it can become. It's the accession of the government and the executives where we're going off the rest of the money and debt, but, of course, we're also going to go into considerable infrastructure, end of economic growth slowing down as I said before. We aim to promote social stability. In terms of reducing insurance, reimburseing income taxes, and improving benefits are reported for the majority of revenues. We've raised unemployment improvements. It should be increased the right to obstetrics, etc. It is in itself no natural laws or economic necessity that, following such a long economy, there will be a severe landing. I think the Land Bank report may support that. The aim is to re-examine the income tax system, both to make it more efficient and more transparent, and to consider what we have never spoken before, i.e. change the rate of the person to benefit from the payiest and to decrease as wages rise. We believe that this requires wide consultation and support of the labour market partners. I'm going to go out on a big party in our majority house, maybe not a lot of time. One of the factors mentioned here is to proclaim roofs on reimbursements, due to research costs and development costs, to be removed. I think it's a positive step. There is also a need to consider tax incentives that are good for wands and innovations. Regarding the carbon tax, it is important that we examine the equation action against the region. I'm all for putting on a carbon tax and turning it up, but I think we also need to consider that not everyone has to be able to switch to another energy source. Transport could then be much more expensive and all transport to the scattered areas, whether it is called food or any other product that may cost much more than here in the capital area. Madam President. According to the Commission opinion, the total annual budget is increasing by 117.5 billion, or 19% in the period. We feel that this is a considerable expansion, but we feel that we can maintain stability in spite of that in order to succeed. The cost of well - being is enormous. Based on 2017, the welfare spending will be about 85 billion higher in 2020 than the budget set for 2017. It's about 78% of the total increase in all causes, except for the reserve. Then, each particular group of subjects is considered, how it goes up. I'd like to mention investments and other things about public security. They're talking about protecting 14 billion in buying three new rescue helicopters for the D.A. I think it's extremely important and long time to do it, because we've recently seen that there is a need. They said county and police. I've been talking to that group since I arrived at the council. I agree with that. I was here as a deputy senator, and I didn't pay this separation vote because I had doubts that the mission would be as planned, which has occurred during the day. That's something this government has the opportunity to change. It is true that it is only the Ministry of Internal Affairs that has been assigned. A report is now coming, hopefully soon, from the National Reexamination of this operation, i.e. How has this been achieved after the union of the office? With regard to transport and communications: It's a huge deal and not just a road and port but we also complete our Iceland project with light. It's important that you have both the job and the education and health systems, adequate network security. The gratifying price is the only new income stock the locals get. They have not been given new income stock for very long. It is in the government covenant that the host tax will go there or pay in some way or everything. I think that's a huge deal for locals. They are handling complex assignments that the State has given them over the years as well as increased tourism. We also need to consider, when it comes to hosting taxes and such, as indicated by the economic and business committees, that there are about 2,000 cars that are actually bedby cars with no such taxes. We need to see if we can see if it is possible for us to do so. Travel service is our largest commercial means of living in huge currency income. We need to get a better grip on her. Hence, economic reporting is very important about tourism, which includes trying to predict how the contractions will become. He'll be somebody, it's such an explosion that nobody can expect it to last forever, for it would be self-involved and incompetent in all respects. We're hoping that this is something that can be started, that the Hausp can set this thing up, and some more so that we can get the information together as soon as possible. It is tragic in such large business that such information is not there, but it is primarily because it has grown so fast that we have not been able to keep up with it. It is also important, when we talk about keeping the currency pay separate in the sector, in the economy reports, the ones formed here in the country, and, of course, abroad. We're adding a great deal to the environment, 35%. I don't think that anything else has been stated since the office of the Environment, and I'm really happy about it. Education and art, sports and youth, i.e. The 18th topic area needs a minister to review. It has often been said about all this treasure, whether it is a treasure or a treasure fund or archaeological treasure or what it is now. Whether all these funds are to be cared for and whether they have money, we need to do better there. I think we also need to increase our contributions to cultural collections and gather for the scattered areas. This is important in cultural tourism in many parts of the country. They're getting better at both school levels. It is said to be about 16,000 - year - olds at high school in 2020, a reduction in the number of 2,500 students from 2017. As a result, the pressure for each student increases as the target is, around 30%. Can we do better? We can always do better in all the litigators, the ones and the others, but I think this is a step forward. Then we need to take the situation as well as see how it will turn out. The same is true at university. They are depositing enormous sums of money. I think we must also look to see if we are reaching the goals we set to improve the quality of our education or to do research as we would like to do. Much has been discussed here on health matters, little else has been identified in this discussion, and many other cases have been overlooked. It's certainly the largest topic in the state. Hospital service will reach 110 billion in 2023. This increase is the largest in terms of other sectors of money. Of course the building's in there, but who won't build? It is part of expenses, and it needs to be counted. However, we also need to be careful that the Akureyri Hospital and other health institutions in the country do not stay behind, and the health minister assures me that this is not the case. I don't worry that it isn't. We are also promoting mental - health care, making health care our first stop, building it. It is important that it be done. It reduces stress. Once our health care becomes the place we want to see it, the pressures of hospital service in other ways will be reduced. It's something that's cross-reactive. It is also true of the building of nursing homes and other such. I am quite satisfied with the factor, and especially the steps taken by reducing the expense share of patients, equalizing all our access to expert physicians. Of course, we know that we do not have much in our hands. It's not that you can shake past the sleeves of doctors who want to be out all over the country. That we can try to attract people to work in the scattered regions has to be considered with regard to LIN, education, and so forth. We need to play this together. I hope we can do it. But distant health care is also important, and I think it is one of the factors that make a big difference. There's a lot of other big things here. We're extending the birthworm, raising the maximum pay. The metabolic field is increasing around 9% between years, resulting in an increase of around 7.3 billion. There's a big increase in this national budget. We do not do everything for everyone, but it is not possible to expect that even in five years, even if you would like to do so, things that have been out of print. A huge amount of money is underneath and, in effect, all over the system. I was talking about taxes and other things. It is one of the points in the indication of a greater proportion of the budget board. We're talking about the structure of the report, the connection between the goals and the emphasis and all of this. We all agree on this on a financial committee, and beyond that it needs to be sharpened, better, and better, here and there. Some have done well, others are much slower. After this is more beneficial and beneficial, it is for us to follow through. The eighth point in the majority of the indications refers to the gender of the budget as 93% of the provision has been made through cataplexy in men. This was shown in the comments received by the commission. The majority believe that on the basis of equality, tax systems do not have an internal impulse that can reduce employment support or financial independence and stress that this will be taken into account in revising tax and reform systems, how it plays all together. I think it's very important, and I'm gonna follow through after this is done. We're getting into the work here and our way into a budget board, how it's handled, but it's one of the things I feel I have to work with. At the end, I'm going to thank a body board and my associates there for a very good cooperation. At times, the meetings have been hard to deal with, but very good, and much information has been developed, we agree. Hv. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson suggested that we try to get together on financial tips. We went over it, and the conclusion is that here are 20 common tips that we suggest that the Ministry of Economics take over and other Ministers also go over and try to do better so that we are better equipped to do our work in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u161	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Of course, there are a number of questions that can be asked where the senator was involved. I'd like to ask a few questions about the property balance we see. A recent financial and economic minister's answer to the request of the Logi Einarsson, president of the United States, was found, and can be read from that answer, to 218 families that make up the richest 0.1% of the population had 201.3 billion dollars. in clean property at the end of 2016. This group of rich people increased their pure possessions by some 14 billion dollars. in that year. If distributed evenly on each counter, it would indicate that each member of the event would have increased its pure property by 67 million. K. During 2016, or 5.6 million k. per month. The nation's richest tithe took to heart nearly half of the pure property that came into existence that year. For one thing, we knew that the richest 10% of the people owns about three quarters of all the property in the country, so there was a big difference in property. It's adding. I've heard the highest. Prime Minister and w. Senators of the left green are discussing this trend here and also in other countries. They say they're worried about this, but there's nothing in the financial program or in the section on changing the tax system that could cause this to fail. [[The president calls.]] I want to ask you why. A member of the council is whether the majority of the material has not been discussed, whether it has been discussed in the next five years. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u162	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I share her concern with her about property in this country and in many parts of the world. Unfortunately, this is happening everywhere, and it's intolerable. We will not resolve this over the next five years, as I said, rather than many other things. We can take a step, and I think we're doing a lot of things that are about to settle the cost and the participation of people. For example, I mentioned earlier public access to the system, payment, and other things. But I don't think we'll solve it here in this councilroom. Of course, we can use the tax system, that was one of the things I mentioned earlier, i.e. ... theassociationoftheIRS. It's my way of doing it because there are men in the highest earner that enjoys most of it. I would like to go that way, and so much of it directly points to the secretary of finance to examine it. So it is possible to take a step, of course. I feel that we have a responsibility to think about it. We haven't shut down any doors in this national budget program, that I think, about that, whether it's raising the personal discount or what I'm saying here. I believe we have some opportunities to face this. But I'm sorry, I don't think we're going to make it all right in those years. Of course, we should keep our eyes open and look at what we can do. I think there are two things I've mentioned that we can do along with so many other things if we sit over it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u163	Mr. President. I just want to say in the context of that conclusion from economists OECD who talk about this loss of property and the need to deal with it. There are a number of nations that have responded to him on the exact scale of their capital. That's the only way you can go to address this loss of property. Another question I'd like to ask you. A senator is talking about looking at the benefits system and the tax system and stuff like that, you don't know exactly. It's very hard to figure out what's at the top. The government's going to do the tax business. The plan is not expected to increase child support over the next five years, that is a roof for child reform. The same thing happens with interest improvements. There is no amount of money to extend the birthworm for 12 months. Is it the intention of the government and the government to have low-payers negotiate higher child settlements and then for less pay? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] How does the administrative body feel about this exchange of interest and pay? I'm just asking, is there any low-payers who can negotiate higher interest rates for less pay?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u164	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I don't think that people are supposed to negotiate about it, but I think it's important, as if it's over and overinvented in this government seminar, if we're going to try to get some peace. We know that, me and him. Senator. Our groups were in the government, and they made a change of the tax system to some extent because of circumstances, but also because our classes have a vision of it. We need to have such a conversation with the relevant person, i.e. in the workplace and in the labor movement, about how this will be best achieved. I think it matters. We're not necessarily the best experts in it. The people we're talking about here must also be in the position of being experts in this. We've talked about a review of income taxes and reform systems, it's space. [[The president calls.]] We have a value of 14 billion that we can apply. I think it's important that the labor movement has something to say. [[The president calls.]] Whether it's interpreted as making a deal, but I think it's a conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u165	A respectable president. The majority of the committees say how extensive this increase is, about 117 billion, starting in 2018. Let us see what that means. That means 20 billion once that stays out the six - year plan, or just a little more, in fact not. It is good and blessed, but policy needs to be followed and explained as to where and where the money should go. In order to find out, we asked a budgetary board on data that explained the government's basic operation and what government policy cost, asking for further dissociation of what we didn't get. According to the basic examples and the dissociation that we received in the whole sector, it was found that the basic, governmental policy, these were 77.9 billion for 2018/223, 54 billion for the years in the program itself, meaning 10 billion once that lasts throughout the budget, which is very good, for the 2018 budget of some 20 billion. Then I wondered: " This is just a different number than 117 billion. More correctly, it's probably something from that number, because it's the total number and it's also by investments while the 117 million are only the business figures. Is there a total of 54 billion increase in expenses? Is it enough to achieve the results of government policy?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u166	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. Talking is fine, some people put their arms around him and others don't. I'm going to begin by saying that I fully agree with what we've discussed in the Committee on Policy and Goals and whether plans meet national goals and policies at any given time. That has even been true. Over time. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson said that it would be wise to reduce goals and try to keep the plan clearer. I think that when you go through with this, it's wise and also trying to get a better presentation so that things are easy to understand. Like what? The head of the Committee said today is framed expenses without interest fees, irregular and outside frames. It is an overview back to 2010 and up until 2023, so it is easy to compare and watch and calculate. Any approach that you might have. Yet, a senator does not make it a huge amount of money, even though he calculates to 54 billion, which I am not convinced is correct but will not doubt how to reach that number. I haven't seen that number and I didn't quite grasp it when he was putting it up in a speech chair. However, that does not change the fact that we place much money on all major infrastructures. In case of a moment. A senator sees what is being put on medical expenses every year, transportation, and education, but he must come to a different conclusion than 54 billion each year. I think that must be, more dignified president. I hope at least we can agree that we're talking about a lot of change and that we're making a big deposit. [[The president calls.]] The piranha have not contributed anything else, so I know, so interesting would be to know where it was. A senator wanted to evict. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u167	A respectable president. This is so that the Ministry provided this basic problem, and within it all the fees made incorporated. This was followed by an extra part of each subject's field each year. The cumulative costs across the years were summarised at the bottom of the table. Last year there were about 78 billion, the first year, for 2018, these were twenty-one billion, I memorized it, and end up in 54, the addition to the budget commitment that has been made to any government. As a result, a government policy cost 54 billion more than that. That was the explanation. With regard to targets. If it's too universal, it's not useful either. That's a problem too. It can go on both ways. [[The president calls.]] This balance is needed. - It's too bad for you to see how short time is.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u168	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. This is true and will always be, so the state is faced with commitments and can really make little changes, at some point it can do more than less, compare with some kind of contract. Of course, it is also true that we need to find a balance of gold. It's always said that it takes 10 years for induction and so on, but we're very impatient and we want to do it right away and try to get hold of it right away. It may well be that we are too vague if we reduce our goals, in some places they are very numerous, and in other places they are few. It is the average way we are looking for and also the way to measure our goals. Is it not what we need to approach, that we see whether we have been successful? [[Up front.]] Have we gone where we were going? I think it matters. [[The president calls.]] And do we get that for what we put together? I think maybe that's what we want. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u169	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for the talk. I'd like to ask her about one point that's been under discussion in early stages, that's a government decision to use just about half of the so-called reserves for special transport. I'd like to ask you what. A senator who is a member of the legal committee whether this is in harmony with the laws on public finances and with the goals set out in the reserves. I think that all people who look at a road problem with a measure of fairness and knowledge, as we senators here certainly do, know that the situation of the road was probably not beyond the years to come and the discussion that had been discussed. What I want to know is what I think. The senator as the representative of the greater part of the budget and the left greener is in regard to this particular arrangement, which, of course, has not been overlooked by any council hall to raise a few questions, to be said mildly. It will undoubtedly be the basis for further speculation over the weeks, months, and years. I'd like to hear a point of view. The senator in charge of this special procedure or arrangement.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u170	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I want to start by saying that I would have wanted to see this do differently. We all said that, Committee members. Each of us said it to the minister when he came to our meeting that we had wanted to see it done in another way, i.e. that the request and information had come to us in other ways rather than getting information from the media and then were asked to do this. I don't think that's a good practice. None of us found that to be true, and we criticized that in no way at all with the minister. The other thing is, again, that I don't think public financial law was broken in this regard. It is true that all of us know that the transportation system is, in effect, a widespread breakdown. We know exactly what has been going on in tourism and that all heavy transport has gone out of the sea and up into the sea, etc. However, I do not want to cross up the road manager who enters the Committee and tells us that the situation is far worse and worse than after this winter, which we know has been a particularly difficult road system. Frost and God are aware of what has caused many roads to be even worse than expectations, although it was known that things were not good. He counted at least that there were many emergency projects to take care of. I could, in view of that, but I reiterate that I was not happy that this decision was made at the government table and then would come in this way to us. I would have wanted a minister who would have just discussed it with the committee and would have asked for it before taking it to someone else. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u171	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. The second item from a speech of some. A senator I wanted to be curious about was what she brought on about the carbon tax and, as she put it, that specific action against the country was needed. That's at least In fact, what she said, I think it's correct. What I want to ask you is why. A member of the Parliament is what she sees in particular action against the country's environment and whether there are ideas or other jobs at the same time in the government. I want to know.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u172	Mr. President. I had this discussion with the then minister of finance, Benedikt Jóhannesson, when he set out his plan. We had not yet come to any conclusion as to what could be done accurately. But it is clear that rising carbon taxes mean that all products become more expensive where I live and many others, so we need some sort of increased equation payment. I haven't updated it yet, but I think it's clear that it needs to be done. I have discussed this within my company, and my associates have mentioned that those living in the scattered regions must be met if the carbon tax is increased even more, which remains to be done. I think it needs to be done with some kind of equation. I don't have a deal with them. I also think there's a lot of ideas involved, because no doubt people have more ideas than just me and him. Senator. But it is important that subsidies in some way come in such a way that goods, services, and so forth will not become more expensive in the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u173	Mr. President. The one standing here is the representative of the United States of the Economic and Business Committee. Therefore, I will specifically discuss that side of the plan. The financial programme is to provide policy for the public financial sector for the next five years as well as an estimate of the income of the state budget and the expenses of the individual sectors. Expenditures are determined, and the Ministry then divides the budget of the budgets to a legal bill and to institutions and individual subjects within them, and publishes in a follow-up with the budget bill. The budget is reviewed annually, but with its approval for 20191⁄223, budgets for budget 2019 are set. Thus, only significant changes will be made in the spring of 2018 and in the autumn of the same year. In addition, financial programmes must meet the conditions of financial policy that require survival during 2019, which is 1.2% of GDP. Therefore, financial programmes are of utmost importance, in order to study government policy and also to set the frameworks for the language fields that work with us right next year. Then, each year, in 2019, a financial program will be adopted, which is largely up to the number in it and will be submitted to the approved date. In fact, financial advisers make serious comments to the plan and point out that they do not have a problem. that the flexibility announced in the previous financial program, from the last government, is now largely gone. We in the United States stress the importance of taking into account the comments and tips of a budget and making changes in financial programmes accordingly. We stressed this, but the fact is that more of the legal committees do not make any changes. But that's what we do in the United States. They've been submitted. Change of both the income gate and the spending side of the plan is required. In addition to making financial contributions, it is necessary to provide better supplies in goods to prepare for the downcoming, as well as to supply the necessary expenses that are not expected in the budget. It's both important because when we get down from the swing, it is important that we walk on the rest rather than in service to those who especially need our welfare. We are not to let the sick, the elderly, the schoolmates be the balance but to be left over in the Kingdom Fund, which we are to maintain when there is more good in life today. Although words are hard to grasp. The minister of the government, who does not sing in agreement about the planned tax changes, can be clear from the heading Emphasis on tax issues, such as on page 12. 15 in the budget, the implementation of income tax down to a lower level of 1 percent. A decrease in income tax to a lower tax level by 1 percentage reduces GDP by 14 billion dollars. The same chapter says, by permission of the president: At the same time, the overall review of revenue taxes by individuals and relief systems is aimed, including with the aim of reducing tax burden and establishing a whole, simple system, especially in the interests of less income groups. It highlights official support for family members and for housing expenses, with more progressive financial support for less household resources. This policy is then implemented with the planned financial budget, and it is important to read figures and words together so that it becomes clear what the government will do with the words. So text and numbers don't match together in this respect. In some parts of the text, there are fine words that can be applied, but then the numbers come, and that leaves things off the board. A financial report shows that the future system that the government wants will become will become simpler, more efficient, and more transparent. Please refer to the figures of the 2015 International Cash Fund and the 2016 cooperative setting for increased prosperity. Both ideas go on improved systems as special support for poverty and the absence of support in the form of growth reforms. Individuals receive different levels of personality discounts by income and employment, while taxproentan will only be alone. This concept does not account for the double role of the tax system, i.e. Its role, on the other hand, and its balance role. Ideas are based on income. The one here recommends that the carpenter of the Norwegian states be viewed more than the World Bank when changing the tax system that is in the best interests of the world. The Company wants income tax to be stepwise, and it has a twofold role in being a stock for the state's funds and contributing to the balance of income. We'd like to review the gap between tax steps, increase the tax ladders, and ensure a fair contribution from more income-rich groups to the community through the tax system. Resurrected income or possessions are increasing in this country, and the tax system is needed to balance the situation. It's like I crossed over earlier in answer to what. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir can read it from the bottom of the question. The Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs, asking Logi the Einarsson of the United States, that the richest 0.1% of the country's population owned 201.3 billion dollars. in clean property at the end of 2016. [[Up front.]] The group increased its clean holdings by 14 billion dollars. in that year. The nation's richest tithe, i.e. The richest 10%, took to heart less than half of the real estate that came into existence that year. Prior to 2016, it was apparent that property differences were high in this country. It's adding. This is a trend that is not good and that has taken place in many Western worlds and in many parts of the world. For example, economists OECD and other scholars have pointed out this and warned that when such inequities develop, communities are affected and even become bad. to reduce growth. There is a great advantage in trying to figure out how to address the inequities. Many countries, many countries, big treaties. We as superiors would like to increase the impact of child improvement, which, in addition to improvements in housing, is the most important means by which governments can use it. We strongly object that the next five years are covered with child support and proclaimed that they will be a source of strength to the poor, not a way to balance the status of the children with those who do not share children. Families who enjoy child - welfare have dropped by more than 12 percent. from 2013 on, when right men got back to power. In the north and in many European countries, there has been great agreement on the value of support for family members, but in this country the impact of child improvement has continued to be reduced. The terrible course to be maintained. The amount suggested for the Generals to agree to spend on child welfare during the next five years is almost the same as the Council agreed five years ago. The main conclusion of a recent report by the Norwegian Minister is that increasing inequities in the North countries can be explained by failure to increase the pay rate during the past few years. Child damages in this country begin to be cut far below the minimum in accordance with the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. There is no evidence in the financial program that money is set aside for longer obstetrics, spoken of in the Constitution. The Synod highlights an extended obstetrical period to 12 months, but it also shows that child - welfare funding will be raised and taken progressively over the next five years so that children's families will be able to balance their status with those who do not share children. Basis support should be reduced, so that toward the end of the programme period, the budget is estimated to be substantially lower in support than at the beginning of time. It is not mentioned in housing, which deals with the economic and economic challenges, as well as with the well - being of the people who are having problems making their own homes or making ends meet because of the high cost of housing. It is disappointing, to say the least, that more of the legal committee should not make adjustments that address the housing problem. The result is not only an economic problem but also a major impact on the well - being of those who have difficulty finding homes, rents, or other living expenses. Iceland and I are rich in resources and feel that's our greatest blessing. But we are not good enough to collect a fair price for the resource use, and as recent examples prove, some politicians are more willing to sell resources or rent them out or their sources are inexpensive. This applies to fishing the resource but also to energy resources and other natural resources. Although much has been done well in the fishing industry, there is still a sense of justice that society will benefit from its use of resources, as it will best be. Exploitation of markets and contracts for a certain period of time will pay full price to the quatane. The fair share of the resource resources from the energy companies should run into government funds and travel revenues as well. As rich in resources as Iceland is, it cannot be acceptable that the public is not allowed to enjoy a fair share of the profit that otherwise comes to those who have the right to exploit the resources or who are able to take the right because of government lack of direction. As financial advisers rightly indicate, a variety of jobs contributes to stability. A review of the financial Council says, with the permission of a president: A complex structure of industry can soften the impact of shock on the economy, especially in small open economic systems such as ours. It is not appropriate to keep all the eggs in the same basket. Travel is soon one of the largest sectors in the country. A quick recession in this article would have a major impact on the economy, as the rapid increase in tourists has indeed had in recent years. There's no real employment policy in this country. While it is important to support and help those who have grown up and returned to the national farm, it is also important to give up support when the sector no longer needs support or to have government backing on other issues. No industry enjoys as much taxpayers from the government as the largest sector in the country, tourism. In a report on the 2018 financial bill, tax contributions for tourism are estimated at some 26.5 billion dollars. Governments need more intensive tax support. It's absolutely necessary. I challenge the majority to consider it more seriously. It is, as financial advice points out, highly unwise to keep all the eggs in the same basket, promoting that the largest sector will grow bigger and rust others. The financial programme will discuss the need to increase the control of taxes. I agree with that point of view. However, more money is needed so that acceptable benefits are achieved by monitoring and tax analysis, both through tax fraud in the country than also by tax frauds by using foreign tax sources. The addition to the tax-based financial programme and monitoring is taken back in the next two years. Therefore, the government's policy must not be changed. Further birthworm, higher child - care benefits enjoyed by others, and the need for housing are all issues that help improve the status of men and women. On the other hand, tax beats work in the form of tax steps against equality, as it were. An analysis of the financial and economic issues of the extent of the intermission use of personal discounts and tax steps for income in 2010•2015 shows that it is the most common option amongst the highest earnings of couples or partners, or that 93% of the reimbursement is being used to increase the provision of men. The agreement encourages less job participation in a cohesive spouse, which is usually a woman. There's nothing to wait for. It should be authorized to bring down the total first. The estimated volume of tax payoff is about 2.7 billion. in 2018. There is no question that social subsidiary threatens itself on the basis of the welfare community, which is exactly based on the survival security of all and solidarity of rights and ideals for all. A healthy labour market is the foundation of good communities, and the fraud must be stopped here. In particular, the failure activity focuses on those who are the most vulnerable, young people, and foreign workers in the construction and tourism industry. A social subcommittee requires a clear response on the part of the government. Such a job - market betrayal has both serious financial consequences and social consequences. Governments must be in line with the seriousness of the situation, and funds will be expected to protect the health of the local labour market. President. The program is to be followed by a bill that partially deals with that problem, cheating, and cheating. I'm glad you're here. I support these measures even if I want to say that I need to do better. I trust that the government and the highest. A government will, because it's our best interests. It's the interests of workers, the interests of unions, but also the advantages of companies because, by social subsidies, companies are cheating in the order and above the competition. It is also completely unacceptable. So it's in the best interests of anyone to bring a picture of it. Although I am not opposed to taking any steps laid down in this council, it is necessary to do even better. President. From my speech, I hope that no one will doubt that I am highly critical of this financial program. In the United States, we make some adjustments. Although we do not have a large ministry behind us to implement it accurately, they have ideas about how to adapt it so that it will benefit from the seemingly good and the good economic conditions that we truly live in. It is unfair, and we want to try and suggest that this situation be established.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u174	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for her speech. At the same time, I have to say, at the moment, that I have experienced personal disappointments with the nature of my situation. Group members are speaking down the massive expansion and construction of the welfare system I thought it would be. Senators are in favor and are included in this program. My personal disappointments are such as absolute details, but I thought that it would be more successful if we accepted at least what is done instead of using some phrase and stamping it to speak it down to raise ourselves up. Hv. paritaprevir For example, the daughter of Harðardóttir G., only at the end of his talk, came to the Continent's suggestions. I must commend the United States for their suggestions. I'm very pleased with that way of doing things. But I'm going to let me ask myself a few suggestions, for I am no better than in them, in which there are 23 billion dollars being submitted. increase to 5,000 billion, as stated in a press release, is said, by president's permission, how to finance them: By falling from a 1%-level decrease in income tax, the state's budget would have an additional $14 billion in the hands of each year. This is of interest, as it states that the overall review of the income tax system should be carried out together with a review system, with the objective of increasing the provision of low income groups and lower income groups, this should be done in consultation with the labour market partners and, considering that these changes, it is particularly considered that changes in individual discounts, some sort of step distinctions there, could be equivalent to this 14 billion U.S. reduction that the Conspiracy wants to take over, as I understand, to eliminate its suggestions. [[The president calls.]] Is the United States against communicating with the labour market parties and considering changing the personality discount? If she does not object, where will she get the 14 billion that she intends to save according to her plan and use its 23 billion?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u175	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Government officials have used their public talk time to review the financial program and speak it up. I used my 20 minutes to point out what I wanted to have different. I do not know that I have used some phrase in my speech, but it can be. For the most part, it is a document with the members of the Union's Committee on Fundamental Affairs, so it is possible to look at the phrases where I used and wriggling. A senator thought it was so boring. Hv. A senator asks about the 14 billion. We in the United States believe this time period is wrong to reduce taxes. This cocktail, we've seen lndependence, most of the time with the advance men, stir such a cocktail. When years of well - being are added both to expenses and to reduce their income by paying taxes. We want this space to be new to meet family members, to meet older ones, to meet microgrowers, to meet the call of the Land Hospital, for example. We're not supposed to go down on taxes at this point. In case of a moment. A senator has read, for example. ASI comments to this financial, financial, financial, financial, or financial bills in the past five years, no one has to question what unions want to do about the integration of the tax system. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It doesn't have to be negotiated separately.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u176	A respectable president. It just so happens that this is not the first time ever. A senator talks about a financial program. Last time I listened to her on a TV program earlier, I allowed myself to watch. But this is an interesting message from Iceland's Socialist Party, as I think it is still called, to the unions, or to the labour market parties, that they should not sit down and discuss, so I'll witness in the financial program, by permission of the President, to examine in particular how such arrangements should be handled, i.e. with personal discounts, a process of interaction with reform systems, such as the payment of child reforms, growth reforms, and housing improvements, so that changes can be made with the government's aims for lower income groups. [...] One of the various advantages in this way is to make a personal discount possible so that it will disappear as income increases. It is noteworthy that if the Conspiracy opposes such a conversation or leads to real action, it is the action that makes this 14 billion that the Conspiracy is going to use in another way. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u177	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, senator of the left green, has invited us to the wigs here. I'm celebrating the conversation, but it's just the opposite. A senator was no more than a hair stop to what I've said about these financial programs and other financial programs. We in the United States do not speak for tax reductions at this point, but it is certainly unreasonable to say that this means that we are opposed to having a conversation about the tax system changes with the labour market or the labor movement. It's absurd to say that. But now, at this point, we are not to say that it will be to reduce the income of a government fund. We can change the tax steps, improve with family members, increase the equation, and change the tax system to do so. [[The president calls.]] But we do not have time to reduce the income of a government fund. When we get down, we shouldn't let it sound like it sounds to me. A senator's will, the welfare system is taking the swing. It's supposed to be the rest of the government budget to take it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u178	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir It's a Oddný, warm, G. Harðardóttir of G. I'd like to say first, that I agree with what's happened. A senator's variety of employment is important and all social reforms are involved. Then there is always the question of how we approach the subject. Hv. A senator spoke in the matter of tourism. Today, we have discussed a number of growths in tourism and the increase in income the article has made. Hv. A senator spoke of the importance of keeping equal between sectoral matters. I agree with that. Hv. A senator quoted a report of financial laws that led to sector tax returns. I've only stopped at that brief overview because there was a plan to raise the value tax in tourism. The majority are concerned only with the tourism of its members, which yields substantial amounts of income and, especially, currency income. Yet, all reports tell us that with the rapid growth and, at least, reduction of both hopes is possible. In view of circumstances and investments, I wondered if it would not have been impossible to attack an increase in the value tax on this industry.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u179	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's question. I think it's so long, long time to take a balanced discussion about employment policy in the country, where we want to go and what we want to push. A financial body also speaks of what is obvious, saying that it is not good to have all the eggs in the same basket. Travellerry is swinging, and it is hard to trust that there will be endless growth there and not at all possible. When we saw that growth was moving to the tourism service, we were told: "We are happy that tourism is growing. Let's get ready for a market campaign and try to get tourists to go across the country and spread the stress, but let's make the article grow under the same general conditions as possible. It would have been very reasonable in 2012 if we had been lucky to accept the added tax change then. I admit that now more than five years later, it would have been a delay, it's harder to go into that operation. That is why I call the years from 2013, both for tourism but also for infrastructure, the year of the lost tools, especially during the three years that the government of the Independence Party and the forward party was in charge. [[The president calls.]] Then we were to get fully involved in the infrastructure, but it wasn't done.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u180	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I take my mind to see that a collective employment policy is something we should go to. I think it's in the movies. But about the infrastructure. Hv. A senator mentions years of lost opportunities. Of prime importance was 20121⁄2016 to cover debt. It was difficult at the same time to put on a very powerful infrastructure. But then, in a financial program, it is the priorities of the government. More than half that there is a tremendous increase in the health system is indicated by the committee's list. [[The president calls.]] Hv. A senator spoke of its inability to see a place, but this is very evident in the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u181	Mr. President. I fully agreed with the government's policy, Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunnlason, to pay off debt. That was very wise. But it was unwise to lower taxes and reduce hunting costs at the same time. We were supposed to keep our income and get into the infrastructure. That's what we were supposed to do. That's a consequence of what we're dealing with right now. In my speech, I did not say that there was no increase in the health system. On the other hand, I call for immediate attention to the problems in the Land Hospital. That's what we have to do, and we in the United States make a suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u182	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. You could say that the senator before me stole the crime. I was going to discuss exactly the same things that concern the so - called tax appeals, which have been considerable in the discussion of the budget of the past few years. However, when talking about the general conditions of tourism, it has been suggested that in Europe, the hosting factor is worth up to 7◯12%. That's the rule. There are two countries in Europe that have higher values, Romania with 24% gurks and Denmark with 24925% and are in big trouble there, and they have other contemporaneous things to make their tourism competitive, such as conferences and so on. In Europe, a wide supply of well - worth is available. During the past few years, the increase of values has been increased in countries such as Germany to balance the competitiveness of the country with other European countries. Then I'd like to ask. We already have the answer to the question of why. A senator is as convinced as she was a year ago about raising the value of hosting tourism to 24%. The answer came earlier. There's some doubts about that. When, though, would it be proper to reduce taxes if it is not under conditions that are now, if we could do so? Hv. A senator believes that, as mentioned earlier, it is not right to reduce taxes today. So when will the right time come to lower them?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u183	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I explained earlier that it was harder and that it had been better to make the article grow under normal business conditions, the same as other service companies have to deal with. The tax concentrations for tourism, which are considered in budgets for 2018 at 26.5 billion dollars. magazines are designed to give this article a better chance than any other job in this country. We also need to look into it when we have a business that has its activities, which makes it stronger, and it affects other exports, just so quickly. A senator doesn't think I don't want to talk about a higher worth tax anymore. It is very important to keep in mind when comparing ourselves with other countries how much of the labour market is going on. We must, and we have failed to do it, or those who have been in charge, to make a proper policy, or to provide care for the tourism. Despite rejection of this route, we must do other things, for even though our tourism has brought us to our employment and its growth, it has proved to be useful while trying to straighten out the cow, we are at high cost. Without transportation, police, health care, the local population will suffer, and the population will get worse. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u184	Mr. President. Then I'd like to ask. A senator knows if she is aware of what the discussion was like during the past year regarding the respect of transport supplies. If we take the currency money in the tourism service, there'll be 35◯40% from air traffic where there's no more worth of money, and nowhere in the world. About one third of the payable extras today so that the cost of taxes would actually be only 1/3 of the industry, which is mainly a stay and perhaps a sale on bus trips, and would mean that we were primarily going against the country's farms in the host show. That was the serious attack. The discussion of raising prices in tourism was about this, i.e. going against that part of the tourism service, a country-based tourism service. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether she was aware of this during the recent discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u185	Mr. President. I think I've examined some of the sides of this case, including... is a fine answer from the secretary of finance and economics to the value of the tax stock for lodging. I asked him to replace it with the capital area and the region because I wanted to prove that there was some difference. But there is no difference. It's the same number. I'm asking why. A senator: Is he aware of this? [[Up front.]] Is it not best for him to look at that answer and consider it? But I would like to answer the first question about when it is the right time to lower taxes. When it is necessary for the State to reduce taxes and increase expenses in an effort to pull things back to the right place. When the crisis was severe, we went completely wrong, and we couldn't do it because we were so in debt. But we're not supposed to lower taxes in the good stuff. [[The president calls.]] We're here to learn from it. A nation that almost went to the head is to collect funds at a convenient time and reduce taxes and extra expenses at a time when we are in a bad place in the economy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u186	A respectable president. The budget we're discussing here for 2019-2023 will be followed by financial expenses without a budget of 132 billion. during the senior year, they were under budget during the past year. There's a 20% raise in solid prices. That's an increase of about 1.5 million. K. to each family of four. If you describe the development of state funds in the last few years with a single word, it is a treasure charge. It really doesn't matter which team you're looking at, everything has gone up and will continue to rise in the years to come. The financial program thus promises to reduce income taxes to individuals as well as insurance bills. I'm one of those that count, unlike what I see. paritaprevir It's a whole new Oddný Harðardóttir who was here, that we have to step harder and faster on the ground when it comes to letting down a little bit of the tax cutter. However, it is particularly enjoyable that the financial programme reports that income taxation should be fully re-examined. It's going to even be there. See if changing personality discounts are properly introduced in a manner that I have spoken to. This would result in significant increases in the rate of personality discounts and declines as income increases. A corrupt personal discount might be paid to some extent. Thus, a income tax system with a flat tax rate encourages work, but it does not punish them for improving their interests. It adds to the same amount of provisions that take more money than are available to those who have more. The financial programme suggests making donations for hospital service, non-ICUd medical services, nursing and rehabilitation and medical care, increasing by more than 56 billion from 2017 to 202023. That's a 29% extreme. The remaining plan will be medical expenses at 249 billion dollars. in 223 C.E. Similarly, when it comes to the care of the elderly and the poor, the situation is similar. There the donations will be more than 35 billion higher. In total, donations to the elderly and to the poor are about 162 billion in 2023. In this regard it is necessary to keep in mind that contributions to pension pay increased from 2013 to 2017 by 69% in real value. All of them will be spending more than 96 billion dollars on welfare. above in 1923 than last year. That's an actual raise of 26%. I think there are no examples of such a dramatic increase in cost to welfare in other countries over a period of five, six years. But more expenses are required. There are a few in this room who feel that the charge is not enough. More must be given, and then to abandon the bad practices of the State that give up money. The proposal to lower taxes is said to be a sign of the failure of the government to earn money. Others who speak of slacking are accused of giving up billions of dollars, not being used to name some of the milked - in - the - mouth routes of income. Somehow, as I have said before, the standard of public service is how much money we spend on it. On the basis of this standard, higher spending is constantly required. The quality of our ministry is basically secondary. This is unfortunate, and I think that it should, of course, be implementing new practices, such as many have talked about in terms of financial planning and financial planning, but it is unfortunate that expenses or spending decisions seem more likely to be on the basis of the system and the needs it has rather than dictated or depend on the needs of those who need the service. This is especially true of the health system. We are sometimes too busy making decisions here to increase expenses, including to solve a particular problem, to forget to demand what money can buy. Who's being served? Who gets their way out of the way by increasing their money? We are too busy solving the problem of the system itself. It's hard, it should be admitted, standing on the brakes when it comes to the government's expenses. It's sometimes like the brakes aren't working. That is why I am convinced that we need to rethink the government. We need to streamline it all up. We need to increase our requirements for service that we share. We need to increase efficiency and innovation in public affairs. There should be goals that should be set and should be obliged to set up a financial program. But let's go back to the tea gate. The otter of Ketill, the taxpayer himself, seems rather few to friends. In contrast to what many people think against paying, especially those with the lowest income, local, or child - making benefits, a step - apart income tax system in individuals with personal discounts and income - related growth, housing, and child benefits - to - child benefits. In addition to such taxes, there is more to pay than there is to pay. The worst is when people get caught in the trap of perimeter taxes. Thus, each time the benefit of the ransom gets better, it is punished. You see, it's the income, the pay you keep when you've already paid your taxes, and your pay is turned into the pension fund, which divides the families in the country most from day to day. Of course, the interaction between pay development and child development, and interest and housing benefits, is a major factor in this. These reforming classes are linked in ways that, in some cases, those to whom the punishment is least deserved, the peripheral taxes eat up the benefits, and sometimes the better. On the other hand, those who are the strongest at stake in the labour market have the potential to get the improvement in the damage caused by extreme taxes and/or an increase in income tax. The paced income tax system increases labour problems and the tax system's eroding mood. In view of this built - in failure of the income tax system, I have been convinced that we should introduce flat income tax taxes, one common tax percent, while significantly increasing the character discount, and then having the person's discount lowered as income increases. The problem in the income tax system is expressed in the person's discount. Every time we make a decision in this room to raise the character discount, it goes up the entire score. That's why the raise of a thousand is such an animal. That is why an increase in the rate of personality discount by our income tax system does not come to those who fail. That's why a flat tax charge with a high personality discount that lowers with rising income is the wisest way. Hence, it is a great deal of joy that the financial programme offers an overall review of this income tax system, and it is reported to be one of the ideas that are considered. Of course, radical changes in the income tax system of individuals will not be made in a conflict between the labour market partners and, most certainly, employee movements. Therefore, it is important that such a change that I have become convinced of being reasonable is made in a good agreement with the labour market partners and can become an important input into conversation, not only with those that take place this year, but also in the future. These are changes aimed at making the income tax system more righteous and simpler, more transparent. Under the leadership of Bjarni son of Benediktsson, the minister of finance was able to take many important steps to simplify tax systems in 2013 (U.S.A.) over the years. At the beginning of the last year, the intermediate level in income taxation fell, increasing the provision of large amounts of pay. General goods were dropped, customs of clothing and shoes are now gone. The benefit of the households increased. The top step in the cost tax was reduced from 25.5% to 24. The lower steps, however, were raised, and the tax stock was improved. Insurance costs have dropped from 8.65 percent to 6.85%. The insurance bill is little more than a salary and a job tax. The government has made promises, and these promises include: administered in an existing financial programme for further reduction of the cost. But it is still considerably higher than it was in 2008 when the fee was 5.34%. So the projects are there, but we aim in the right direction. However, when we decide to change the tax system, whether it is a tax system involved in taxes and bans, companies, or individuals, we cannot focus solely on the effects of these changes in the income of the state's funds for increase or decrease. We must be convinced and convinced that the changes do not lead to a loss of the company's competitiveness and that at least is not adding more weight to business here than in competitive countries. That was, for example, The only reason I spoke against and opposed a sum of money, a cost to travel service, was raised up to 24% in the last year because of people's forgetting it and ignoring the simple fact that Icelandic tourist service, hosting, is to compete at a global market, compete with countries where the merit tax is considerably lower. It's no coincidence, such as. that the Germans decided a few years ago to reduce the value of transport especially to make German tourism more competitive to Europe and especially to the eastern part of Europe. It was a competitive, competitive way of life. That is why the Danes have introduced a complicated transfer system and a reimbursement system for transport services to reimburse parts of the values provided, one step for the population. A respectable president. Just at the end of the day, because I see my time shrinking to one of the surprises, I don't think I'm gonna be able to avoid it, according to the nature of the case, just discussing the underlying factors of the budget and the national interests behind it. This is because, in our review, we in the greater part of the Economic and Business Committee pointed out that our concern has been expressed by national forecasts. It warned of too much optimism. Of course, there is always uncertainty in predicting. The duration of the forecasting process is more uncertain. I think it is necessary for us in the greater part of the Economic and Business Committee to take serious notes of financial advice on the uniqueity of the projections involved. So it is important to introduce a new kind of work, build a new national economy according to the needs of public funds, so that we can better and with a little more certainty predict the future. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u187	President. Thank you. A senator's speech is excellent. Many interesting facts were presented in his case, and I can wholeheartedly agree with many of them, especially his tax coverage. I personally love the concept of income taxation that he tore up, it's actually from a meeting point of view, and the restoration along with other groups of it on its last election policy. So hopefully, a good transpolitic stand can be achieved here in the hall. What I would have been most concerned about, however, is what is involved in the impact of government interests, especially on money policy. In a recent report, it is well stated that it may not be all about which play system is played, as long as the rules of the game are respected. I wonder what. A senator is concerned with me that this vast spending fee and its interaction with the plans for tax losses - which I am in the prince's hand, but, of course, a lipper with such a huge expansion - simply subjugated the money policy we're working on, caused a higher level of interest and a higher level of success, while the same is true as the Sendabanki has repeatedly pointed out; but he just thought that he would have to keep the interest level so high because of the decrease in terms of the state's budget. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u188	Mr. President. I think I will and will. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson is in a similar area, and we have similar concerns when it comes to the development of government spending. They have been enormous. It is foretold that the growth will continue, the physical growth. In return, and we must not forget that there is no increase in government expenses or government funds as a share of land production. It matters. The other thing is, if you don't follow the rules, it doesn't matter what the rules of the game are. We can set all kinds of guidelines here, but if we don't follow them, they don't matter. It's a message that a team on a new money policy is pointing us in, and I think we need to discuss it very extensively in this conference hall and at least. in our joint committee. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u189	President. I agree with that. A senator that it is very important to discuss this report very carefully here at the Hall of Congress, I don't think it will be accomplished. It was different in the case of the senator that I would also be able to have a complete mind, that is, to discuss that spending is not a goal in itself, an increase not a goal in itself, but what we get for the money and how the effectiveness of the state conflict is for us. There, I am quite concerned about the functioning of the health system. For example, in the current government policy, I find it highly acquired to the private - and very important to make a clear distinction between a private and a personal health system - which has been shown to be highly effective on chapters, but certainly there can be a great deal of demands there too. But it seems to me that we are about to become involved in this trap; that the aims of a major expansion without clearly realizing what we are getting under it; that we are reaching out for a private part of the system, without laying any basis on whether financial benefits are from it, from a government fund, from a better service or at a more economic price for the public health system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u190	A respectable president. I agree with what. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson. Sometimes it is as if our sole objective is to increase our government spending. We forget - I think it was what I was trying to say in my speech earlier - to use the right standards, what we get for the money. I think that the right standards should be placed into the financial program and that there are certain requirements for the services rendered. I want a clear distinction between who pays, i.e. we from a common fund, and who can give? There should be competition for the ministry because two things happen: Service will be better, and it will be inexpensive for us together. That is why it is so important to build a healthy health - care system, so to speak. In this regard, the personal contribution is immensely important and is to play a key role along with the existing system.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u191	A respectable president. A reduced rate of character and flat tax is the same as increasing income taxation and a flat character discount, just to be clear. A flat character discount with increasing income tax gradually eats off the personality discount and vice versa. So I think it's really nice to say this like this, that we're going to a flat income tax and a dropping character discount like it's different from what we have right now. In fact, there may be a little more complex, since a person's discount would have to be paid if he had paid too much, if that were, for example. During the early part of the year, as well as in the latter part of a job, with a considerable income that would not get a personal discount, he owed it when it comes to the overall income of the year. I would also be interested to hear, in terms of financial policy and the tax policy presented there, whether there is any possibility that this will change during this period of financial policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u192	I think we're right next door. paritaprevir If you bring in Gunnarsson's Leví, if you bring in a high character discount, depending on your income increase, but at the same time have a flat percentage, you'll have as many tax steps as your taxpayers do. But they are much more and much more complex when they have a multi-stage system, which is then bound to income - related benefits, such as baby reforms, interest reforms, rent support, etc., than this. I'm convinced that if we're going to build up and create a income tax system that's healthy, a income tax system that encourages people and doesn't write, it doesn't encourage people to punish them when they make up for their own good, they're worth it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I've been convinced this is the way, it's gonna take years.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u193	A respectable president. I know it's the same thing, it depends on how you set the amount, how they eventually land. Economic and public financial laws speak of firmness, avoiding unexpected or unexpected changes. In financial policy, it is said that there should be a paper for the baseline development of taxes. There is talk of, in financial release in government economic policy, a decrease in income tax to lower levels. I'm interested in finding out if any further changes are to be expected. Like what? A senator put it that may take some years. But I'd also like to ask about the aim of developing taxes in the financial policy, a decrease in income taxes in the lower level, how it enters the economic and commercial domains of this one percentage decrease gradually over the terms of the term, if there was any export. [[The president calls.]] We've both heard that this could be equivalent to a one-point reduction or a one-point reduction in the low income tax score.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u194	President. The aim of reducing the lower level of income tax was considered to be one percentage. But it is also said that total re-examination of the income tax system is being considered, including some ideas like I'm speaking for, simultaneously, but that these changes will only be made in agreement with the labour market partners which I think is reasonable; I think that is why. A senator must agree. So you can use that amount of money, this percentage level, for these tax changes. It's perfectly clear. It's a dead end. This can be the reason. For a clear discussion, please read on page 18. 58 and 59. Hv. A senator just has to read.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u195	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason very much for extensive, meaningful, and good speech. I agree with him about a lot of things. - That's where I lost a minute of my speech. I thought it was such a good idea that it was two minutes, so I started to flatter the senator. I'm gonna start talking faster. His concern was that the system was beginning to process itself in terms of expansion and that it was difficult to resist. Where does he look? paritaprevir Oir Óli Kárason, president of the Economic and Business Committee, has been able to resist the costs of financial growth in relation to the budget of the past few years? Is he really pleased with how he has been successful in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u196	V.E.G. President. Now a big question was asked. [[For example, consider: No answers?]] You see, the answers are longer than I can get. I think I must now refer to a number of articles that I will have written in recent years and pointed out. I have not only talked about maintaining the budget increase and even reducing expenses; I have also held it to a wide range of expenses; there is a lack of contributions in certain cases. When it comes, e.g. The absence of funds is obvious and undisputed in the home service of older citizens, in the construction of nursing homes and their operations. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] They exist without raising taxes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u197	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. Senator. I might get a little more talk time on this subject if I'm asking nicely. - Yeah, that was good. The minute won't be taken away from me. I can declare right here that I am a faithful reader of weekly articles. Senator, most of them are very nice. There's another matter that I haven't felt as good here in the last few weeks. I wanted to hear what I was thinking. The senator's regard for the recent operation at the time of a so - called reserve was well over half of the money in it. Thus, as we know, transportation, the so - called emergency procedures on the road system, is being spent. I believe most people could predict the situation on the road system. What I want to hear from what I hear. A senator and his position are whether he feels this is an invaluable approach to this so - called reserve. Is this the government fund every time for unseen things that are to be filled once a year? That this has become a kind of drawer money on steroids to save lawyers for horns that do not cover their own budget because they are dealing with steroids in another Congress these days. I'm having a bit of a shock, that there's gonna be a lot to save for every corner if they don't get their money done in December or whenever they're done and plan to join this so-called reserve that has, in spite of all the clear rules in the setting.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u198	It was rather rife with the time for Bergþór Ólason. It's not a role model.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u199	A respectable president. I hope I don't bite them. Just to answer a question. Senator: That's not good. It doesn't make any difference in itself. I think we all agree that this is a good subject. It was necessary to place extra money on improving the road system. There is no political dispute about that. [[Up front.]] - There may be some need to reevaluate the position of certain cases and lawsuits, but this, of course, should be done. In this case, it would have been natural and proper to bring the matter to a council hall as a fund and seek the approval of the council, although the funds will go away and hopefully go to history. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u200	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, president of the Economic and Business Committee, spoke of knowledge. I want to take this opportunity and thank you. The head of the Economic and Business Committee is well informed of the income of the financial programme, the ones we're discussing here. That's what we're gonna do. The budget is very well understood and the response to indications and the reviews are considered here to be the majority of the Committee. Hv. A senator went over the income tax system and planned to review it and interact with a reform system; he reviewed this toxic image of step shifting and the negative impulse of peripheral taxes, and mentioned in this context the conviction that there is one flat percentage. I'm curious. I'm curious. Senator, I know he has a lot of knowledge about the matter: What ratio could that be?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u201	President. When I've been trying to set up a calculus in this, I've been compared to 35%. In the past, I suppose I published a magazine called Business magazine. In 1995, I was not reminded, a special sheet on the income tax system was published, and if I remember correctly, how to get the income tax of individuals to 5% was added to the rural response of about 11% or 12%. [[The president calls.]] Then, too, I planned to save a considerable amount of money on expenses. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason was asking me a question earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u202	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Hv. A senator came into it in his speech; I think the word was an apocalyptic charge. Of course, financial advice has turned around because various economic variables affect our income tax system and how we gain money to face the significant increase in income, I want to say, which was set up in a government contract and are being maintained here in many ways, in our health and well - being. A senator went well over. Regarding the projection and the projection - I have no question to ask. A senator - is being treated for this, and I think that is well, in cooperation with Haust, to create a national interest model that takes into consideration other factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u203	A respectable president. I don't think we can stress enough how important it is that we have the right tools and tools and that the projections we're using are as good as possible. But what matters also to me is that we are not using the same model all over town, that we have very different predictors, so we get a profound discussion on economic and economic prospects. Like what? paritaprevir and president of the budget board, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, knows better than most others, economists pretty much everything. True, some people are convinced that this is a science that we both know is wrong, but now we let it lie in between. [[The president calls.]] I think it's important, and it should be very important. [[The president calls.]] But we are also expected to unite in establishing economics, independent, here on the International Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u204	Mr. President. We're here to discuss the budget of 2019◯2023. I've traveled many times today, and I'm just going to run over a few points, maybe what has been stressed into the work of the legal committee. I'll start with my investment level. Over the past year, we have put considerable effort into further understanding of the state's investment level, the financial agenda, and then disintegrating the business part, and then the investment in the plan to make us a better picture of the investment phase. The state's investment level has a lot to say in the nation's economy, and we've tried to put it in relation to the private sector, as in an apartment market and a commercial market, and then again the ohf. and also a business-related to the state. Perhaps these are some of the projects and investments that will become significant in the years that have been published by Istavia. The project is expected to take place in the next few years, at 1,250,150 billion. This is about half of the financial investment rate in the state; investments on the part of the State are expected to be less than 339 billion. This shows how much Istavia investment is at the moment, that could be about half of what the state puts in investments at the same time. It's been so wide today, but we see considerable investments. Then there's natural management fees in the state. If we are only paying interest, it is said that during the period of the GDP, it will increase by 19% or by less than 118 billion. The increase, of course, is from 2017 to 2023, 117 billion; for the welfare of 85 billion; or about 78% of the total increase in all causes. This illustrates the emphasis that has been on these classes, that this has taken the most part of this business budget. If we only analyze in percent, transport and communications investments, which have been focused on in spring, last weeks, and months - are in the way, ports, airports, and telecommunications - about 124 billion during this period or 36.7% of total invest. It is, therefore, only to come to life, and significant increases, according to recent years, in this subject field. It can be seen that considerable funds go to social security, in a global review of improvement there, or about 17.7 billion. Generosity and the affairs of disabled people, 17 billion. Then 13,1 billion for medical care outside the hospital. Hospital service contributions rise by 13 billion. These are the main teams that raise. It is helpful that we have put more work on tables and other items to try to analyze the overall context of the items, to put it more in a table form than previously done. Perhaps that's the change we're seeing right now between these arguments. Since then, in the work of a legal committee, we have stressed the need to obtain further visualizations of a number of aspects related to financial programmes relating to economic forecasts and such items. It is a general interest among members of the budget board to further improve in this area. We can see that, based on earlier indications, the financial and economic services have been working considerably on that indication. I hope this develops over time, but I'm sure we still have quite a few miles of land to get it exactly as we would like to see it in the long future. I am very happy that in the field of public rights security, we are talking about buying 14 billion buys from three new marine rescue helicopters. It's been a long time since the helicopters averaged 30 years. It is a big, satisfying time to realize that it is becoming a reality. These helicopters need a specific size and a specific transport capacity and can travel some distances 220 miles, if I recall correctly, beyond the cliffs, to the seaside, to pick up ten people. That's the foundation of these purchases. These are powerful machines, and it's a real pleasure to see this coming. It is also a pleasure to see in this, as I only came into the past, a campaign for transportation. It's one of those big issues in a national budget, to add. In the season, we will complete the European project light-related, a basic project, and I think this will have a huge impact on long-term urban development in Iceland and will be a very positive project. We get along well in various decisions, and as indicated in the World War I issue plan, we're the number one person in the world in these matters. I'd like to come in for a little bit. In my work on a financial committee, I have placed considerable emphasis on matters related to tourism as well as international air traffic. This is an area that is truly important to the nation's economy, the matter of tourism. During the past year, travel-exploited currency was 42% of the nation's currency income, compared to 18% of the fishing road and 14% of the major industry. How important it is, therefore, that the State be careful of this important industry, economics, research, and in all the larger contexts. The interest in this class is growing tremendously. We'll see that on the reviews, both this year and last year. Even in reviews, there are significant differences between years, how you deal with travel services in their comments about the financial program. The big context has called for further economic research in tourism, particularly from the 2010 Eyjafjörður eruptions of the past eight years, to allow for the tremendous impact this has had on the economy of the nation. It would be very interesting to get the analysis, especially in the last four to five years, on what this has meant for the economy and for the job and for the position we have entered, i.e. The huge amount of currency that has been involved in these sectors, international tourism, and air traffic. When talking to economists today, our best, they have not been able to grasp the significance of this development. We really do not know how much this effect is. This is a new reality. Therefore, there is a degree of uncertainty in the environment of a national financial programme, and the magnitude and importance of this matter must be considered. There's an enormous figure in this context. The majority of them are referred to as being in favor of the cost of lodging at the local community. We know that much discussion has been made in the local community on how to spend it there. It will reach a final agreement on how this might be done, but we support it, as reflected in the opinion, to consider in a positive way that our rural communities receive their lodge fees. This could result in new income stocks for the rural population. The information centres in this context have also been discussed how to see them in the future, how to run them. If I remember correctly, the communities are adding 300 million to the information centres today, but the state says that I remember 35 million in return; the question of how the host's fee could enter this discussion. It is special, as perhaps shown in the discussion today, that the number of people working in the tourism industry has been difficult to grasp. You can get a lot better around it; you can recognize that environment. The economic profile may not have been good enough on the matter of being fully aware of this. Furthermore, by the majority of opinions, in the last five hundred billion currency bills can be reported to be in about 620, according to the estimates of people who have become familiar. I'd like to explain to you a little bit about Icelandic flying here and note that in recent years, there has been an increase in the number of air traffic accidents. In 2010, the number of flights to and from Iceland by an Icelandic airliner in plan flight has increased from 16 planes, the year of Eyjafjölll's fall, to 47 in 2017. Based on the reports of Icelanda and Wow Air, international aircraft that they are driving are expected to continue growing rapidly over the next few years. These two airlines are expected to fire 57 jets at the end of this year. It is predicted that within three years, it can reach up to 80 or 90. Visitors from tourism have become enormous. Last year they were, as I said before, 42% of the nation's total currency income. These currency costs are primarily divided into two parts, one by international tourism and the other by international air traffic. These are currency revenues generated by flying foreign tourists to and from Iceland and connecting between Europe and North America. So it can be noted that this is also true of Air Atlanta, which is flying far and wide around the world. The money that comes from the business comes in the economy under that. In view of this, the greater part suggests that in the economics the travel service will be divided into two parts, one within the country's currency, i.e. The income of international tourism comes to Iceland, on the other hand, the currency paid by Icelandic air traffic. The feeling is that today there are currency revenues for the aircraft, similar to those of fishing roads and heavy industry in the country. It will fully evaluate the environment that has come up, it has happened for a very short time. Let us note that in 1990, when Icellands as we know it were started, there were seven international jets in circulation. It has become enormous and large, but we know the amazingly low impact, what this really means in the context of part of the nation's economy. In 2011, Oxford Economics published a report that examined this environment. Then it was found that in national production, 6.6% of the aircraft business occurred. Today, the Department of Transport estimates it is between 12 and 14%. Which is, as I have often pointed out in the panta IIs, eight times what we generally see in the Western world; eight to ten times higher in our environment than in the Western world in general. So it's enormous and big, and I think it's important that further research is done on this and even that this 2011 report will be repeated and processed with the latest information available on this sector and economics related to it; the larger picture needs to be examined. With regard to travel and flight, it may be time to think things a little different. When we talk about sustainable employment, we talk about the economic, environmental, and social elements. So so far, we have been most concerned with the economic and environmental factors, so it may be time to start a more social study of the sector. For example, in the South, we see the tremendous speed of growth in a foreign labor force in the area. In the winter, a financial committee reported that 20% of the population in Smokey Town were from a foreign state broken, and 22%, if I recall correctly, were in Sandmaker. This is an amazingly fast development. If the Isavia master plan continues, that 2025 will be 15 million passengers and 25 million 2040 persons, it is this social effect that I believe must be identified and understood in the context of things, socially. In the environment, there is a tremendous increase; 47% absolute increase in the number of topics, the second largest increase in all causes. Only drug costs increase more according to the government budget. The majority stress the importance of deforestation priorities, mentioned in the opinion of more parts. It is noted that deforestation contributions have been greatly reduced over the years since the collapse of the bank, but investments in this series support many environmental policies. Time is getting shorter. I want just at the end of the line to point to two topics in particular. On the one hand, there is the subject of the elderly whose attention has been focused on a financial committee and in the community. During the past few years and years, there has been further discussion. The majority estimates show that the proportion of people aged 67 years and older is estimated to increase from 12% of people to 19% in 2040 and 22% in 2060. It needs to be handled with good solutions. This will never be accomplished by raising the number of nurses; that would mean that we would need a very short time to increase the number of nurses in the country by half. We need to have good ideas about how we will try to slow down that trend. Then I've often referred to Dr. Guðlaugsson Guðlsson and his work and research in this field to strengthen senior citizens so that they can stay at their home longer. Just at the end is what we've talked about in a budget committee during the winter that turns toward disability, disability, and the affairs of disabled people, a language field 27. Then it becomes apparent - the committee has had many visits during the winter - that the number of micropigs has increased greatly over the last five to six years. It's a certain wave in itself. We have to figure it out somehow, and it's not only in Iceland but it's common in the Western world. When you start talking to foreign senators, it's not just happening here. It is one of the largest projects in the world today to see how this is made and what we can do to correct this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u205	A respectable president. I just wanted to talk about government policy. I think it's a good habit to just talk about what's bought for the money, not what we get for it. It's been said a few times today that we need to know what we're getting for the money. When we list helicopters we buy, however, what we get is not being said, i.e. What helicopters do and what problems they solve. We need to have a problem in front of us. It is well described in a financial program that reviews the status of the topic field. But after knowing the situation, what's the problem, we need to suggest solutions that are targeted, with a set measure of how we, by this direction, solve the problem. But as we may have noted, this part, both its purpose, is clearly to solve the problem described, and the standards, so that we really know where we should be placed with the money we put on the project. This is a key to my impression that we need to come forward a little bit more. It's much easier to say: We're going to buy three helicopters, the problem's solved. That's not enough. It is not easy to talk about problems, goals, goals, and standards, it is easier to just say: Buy three helicopters. I think we need to go more the other way. [[The president calls.]] In case of a moment. A senator would like to discuss this if it were well received.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u206	Madam President. That was a relatively open question. I could talk about the helicopters, what they're doing. It's very well defined. As I barely entered earlier, it is defined by what those helicopters should be able to do. What determines that we are going to buy this particular species of helicopters is that they can carry ten crews, 220 miles [20 km] off the coast of the country. It is totally defined as a secondary goal. This may be something that happened based on the report we read last year and took a special discussion about. In this particular matter, we would like to have the option, although only a few times, that men can go far beyond the North Atlantic and take ten persons. It's just our definition. Witchcraft has another definition, 20 people, only a shorter route. They have other definitions. I've just studied their case in Norway, on the search and survival of the North Atlantic. It can't be discussed in such a short time. [[Up front.]] How about 15 minutes to twelve in the evening? [[Up front.]] What do I want for the money? Of course, this is a key to all the government matters, what we expect to get for the money. Whether we're making decisions about nursing space, demand there or what, this is a key factor in everything we do. We need to know what we're doing. Perhaps there was a problem. A senator going towards, I don't remember Icelandic, pardon, Mrs. President, ◯blanced scorecard, which was very popular some years ago, green, yellow and red light. This is the key to everything in our government, our goals. We can throw money out of the right, left, and out of every window, but if we don't figure out what we're getting, we don't know where we are.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u207	A respectable president. Then, really, my question is very simple: Is it goals and standards to be found in a financial program? Does financial planning tell us what we can get for this 54 billion government policy added to the committed expenses given under the core? I don't see it. Perhaps it is. A senator would instruct me to see if that is so. I can see it in a few places, in a tax case, at the U.S. Marshal's Office. Most of all, though, it is simply said, "A object will be defined. " Not known. Unidentified status, etc. This comes from the people who say at the same time: we need to know what we're getting for the money. Therefore, e.g. I'd like to return the budget to the government to say, "Give us a better set, so we'll know what you want for the money."
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u208	Madam President. I think it'll be very difficult for me to answer the question 100% in two minutes, finish this question. [[No...]] But as I said earlier, this is key. My opinion is that in our work at a financial committee we were doing well, e.g. has to do with basic situations. A senator made a suggestion to cooperate. The projections, staging. I was very interested in getting them out. But I think results must be something that we need to develop much better. I want to believe that it's time to discuss the introduction of public finance, we know it's gonna take a good time, we haven't come all the way, we're clear. This is one good goal. I'll definitely have what. A member of the body of elders who works on the legal committee to help us think more deeply about this. It's just a very good point, as in all companies, that you have some measure of how you do things each time and what you get for the money. Surely, then, it must be a key to getting the most money that comes into the government's income. This is not always about raising and raising, as many talk about, but about making the most of the money. It must all work out.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-07-70.u209	A respectable president. First, I would like to express a brief appreciation for many of the recent talks, since in many of them there is little need for more service for the money that goes into our system rather than for the result of more charges, there is more for the crowns. I can't get into a financial discussion without saying a few words at the outset about the recent government laws that can be said to be in the first lap. I have to admit that I've been a bit thinking about the first session of this terms, because the experiences of what is being said here have been that the council has done so much greater to the government than was probably intended. I'm a great follower of overcrowding government affairs and planning ahead of time, but for example, deforestation is one of the concerns that many people have on the inside. The person standing here is the chairman of the Environment and Transport Committee, and we have had a particularly bad way of getting information about how to protect the resources spent on the framework of foresting in terms of the Environmental Protection Agency. I'll give myself that it wasn't the minds of members of Congress when the new rules were agreed. Here, the minister of each lawsuit group, in effect, brought the funds to him. It's some haula with a set of billions of names, and then it plays out in a particular frame. But my experience is that the ability of senators and committees to call out for information has been greatly increased, and it really affects the specific amount. Again, I take the example of the forest industry, where many on the environment and transport committee have been that information and answers cannot be obtained without wear and drop. But I hope that it will be improved when a council meets again in the fall and that we will improve the way we communicate. In this way, the financial programme is subject to material things. I'm going to say a few words about transportation. We are in a position that according to the budget, it is estimated to keep the rhythms that have been added to 5.5 billion between 209, 2020, and 2021, a total of 16.5 billion for transport development. They believe that the government seated here is a major transportation campaign, in the construction of the road system. Of course, that is no great effort. It's like the industrial organization has called it a drop in the ocean. The need for building up, both recent and subsequent development of the road system in large chapters, is so high that we are so far from reaching our tail with the funds marked for that part of the ears. I am deeply concerned about what a House of Congress and the government is reluctant to go through this discussion. It is urgent, and the damage that is taking place on the transport network is becoming enormous. There's an incredible position to find in, and I've shown it in speeches before, that ministers need to stretch into an emergency fund, a so-called reserve, to react to a road situation which everyone realized would be seen in the winter when the budget was paid in December. This is a point that I think we must take to heart and approach the problem with wide eyes. I'd like to come in on a carbon charge a little bit. That's one of the fees raised in December 50%. The government who planned to raise it by 100%, but now it was increased by 50% and promise to raise it by 10% per year for the next two years, if I remember correctly. Of course, the middle class and I voted against that tax increase, and I hereby promise that I'm going to vote against the 10% of my members in the Cabinet class to propose the next December, and then I'm going to vote again against the 10% increase they've already promised us a year later. An interesting approach was made by a representative of the Left Green on the budget board earlier. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir. This approach, however, was not surprising, since it has been observed before and beyond: It is due to take counter measures. They are, in fact, essential that this not be done in prices and moods of greater management conditions for companies and homes, especially in the country. But does this all work out on punt, some show-off? It is a great deal of importance to raise the amount of carbon under the flag of green taxes, but the money back into the areas so that it doesn't go into the prices. Don't you think it'd be better to skip the taxation? I give myself that most people sitting in the hall agree fairly with that, with wise men on the side. At any rate, those in the hall now join me in rejecting the 10% increase in the next December that has been announced and also rejecting the 10% increase that has been announced a year later in the so - called carbon pay. This is some prick we shouldn't spend energy rolling a whole circle in the system to make it all end at zero. I'd really like to come in on the insurance. It has been extremely possible to get them a root in terms of the country's business and no promises about it, or I'm not gonna say anything, but they're the very moderate messages sent in this financial programme for the insurance, which is still much higher than it would be if there was somewhere near the corrupt ratio that was here for collapse when unemployment was at least no more about the use of these funds than is currently available. One more thing I'd like to come in on is funding, and I'll get back in on transportation. I have regularly criticized those who use their transport edifices, especially the roads, to be taxes much more than fair can be seen. I only have the 2016 figures in my head, which is how if we took some valuables from the amount, 46 billion went to the state funds of our vehicles and traffic roads, and 21 billion were spent for the construction and maintenance of the road system. In other words, less than half of the government's income comes from vehicles and into traffic. Then you say, "Someway you'll have to pay for your drinking." That's a perfectly valid point of view. We have even. income tax, cost money, and other ways to do that. Then you need to ask the reasonable question, and you may even answer it: Why should those who have to use the road system pay much higher taxes for the combination, which is more than 50% of the expenses placed on the vehicle and traffic, when those who do not take the car away? With all due respect for bicycle riders and lucky people, who can walk to work and to the work they do daily, and who do not have to use a car to get involved, why would they have groups pay less than they need to get involved? To that end, I have never received an answer, and that answer is certainly not in the financial program. I'd like to at the end, because I'm not going to have my number in pain much longer, to come back to the reserve I mentioned earlier tonight, which I've walked about quite freely in relation to the rule of him. The reserve was certainly not intended to be a kind of provisional minister to save a corner against a case they did not come through in the budget of the December. It can't be. There is nothing in the environment that suggests that it was thought, that man could use the fund to get his way out of things that were perfectly predictable. There's no surprise about the conditions of the road system, nothing. We should approach it in a way that allows us to be careful and to follow the rules, because in a manner of life. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kállson said earlier tonight, it doesn't matter what the rules are if you don't follow them. The way the so - called reserve is first-passed puts great doubts in my mind about the fact that there is a plan for a great national fund, or whatever names they want to call them plans. If the National Fund calls for acting like the reserve, this will be just another way, where the General decided to put his influence on the budget to the minister and official system. If that's the plan, it's fine if it comes out. I'm not gonna keep this speech any longer. I hope that we will be able to put energy into a new approach on how we appreciate the success we are achieving by means of the financial resources being made into the state system. The discussion earlier revealed that in 223, if I recall a number correctly, 249 billion will be used for health care. That's a lot of money. I have not seen much speculation in this context of how people will make the most of their money. You don't need much additional access in your system to make it count when the amount is so big. I hope that such work will start immediately in the fall, and the men will make progress toward it, and with the aim of achieving success in matters that will bring back something that matters, but it won't be something but demis punt as this carbon bill seems to be.
