ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-11.u1	The end of August 27. received such a written message: Iceland's number tells: I have decreed, according to the request of the prime minister, that the Council shall meet to meet on Tuesday, September 11, 2018. As soon as I published this, all those in the General Assembly will be invited to come to Reykjavík for a day and then the General Assembly will be appointed after the service of God's people in the cathedral. One-thirty-thirty-thirty. Lock onto those sites, August 27, 2018. The Guðni of Th. Jóhannesson. Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. Presidential Letters for the Council to meet on Thursday, September 11, 2018 According to a letter I have read, I declare that the General Assembly of the Icelanders is set up. I wish you good fortune in difficult jobs, fine generals. You're waiting for a great job, big or small. In times past, we may find it difficult to distinguish between what is crucial and what is taking place in the remotest part of time, staying there until trurks and others seek out evidence and learning from the past. This year we recall a century from Iceland's becoming a free and sovereign state. Truly, it was a turning point, a big news worth promoting and upholding. The result was long, and much of that story can be said to be surprising. For years, this was the case with a heated dispute in this house that the Iceland and Icelanders were formally presented at the State Council of Dancing. Nationalism, sects were formed, and disunited in this heat. After considering this, it was the biggest ossuary of Caesar's beard, and many also changed their mind by the way winds blew. But the sovereignty got 1918, and here we are still, an independent and sovereign nation, most of the other wealth, in a peaceful society. The public here enjoys the rights and quality of life that people would have dreamed about about 100 years ago. Then surveys indicate that people around the world are as happy as they are. At the same time, however, we know of serious problems, anxiety, and distress among too many, young and old, stress and coldness of work, drug abuse, drug abuse, and drug abuse, sometimes with tragic consequences, the growing cost of caring for the sick, the disabled, and the elderly, as well as for all others in need of care. What is more precious than health and happiness? If people feel bad, what is the point? After all, what does it matter? In summer, after a long war against evil, Stefán Stefánsson, an actor, and a fighter died for a better world. Such problems often open the eyes of people, both of the sick and of those around them. ▪ We see life in a different light, and Stefán said. ▪ A man looked at the very essence of life that all of us should do. Now be careful not to use tragedy to tell others to accept just less problems. Yet, there is much to learn from such a lack of blood, values, and outlook on life. And when we look together on the road, we may have good fortunes to deal with the weighty challenges, but we do not dwell too on matters of opinion that are so lost to memory, such as the State Council of Our Time - and also protect our valuable energy from fantastry - quirk the nonsense away. In politics it can certainly be difficult to distinguish between the great and the small in the heat of the game; certainly, it will never be a matter of single opinion as to what is at home in that delinquency, and it certainly is difficult to predict the uncertain future; but we would no doubt have a good advantage for ourselves, our youth, and the next generation by looking ever more closely at people's health and mental protection, the prevention, and the proactive actions of us. If that is not the case, what is already being worked on can be added to the level of happiness, and it is likely to save long - term money. Fine generals. Many are divided, inside and outside these walls, and thus are to be found in a powerful democratic community, in a sovereign and independent state. There is no reason to be unaware here that when a council was set up a decade ago, there was a sign. Bank crash and agricultural revolution took place. The land and nation were then darkened, but blessedly it was published. Let us always be prepared for it in the multitude and in the economy. But as the years have progressed, let us rejoice to further progress. Me and the Icelanders are a free people in a beautiful country. On December 1, we remembered 100 years of sovereignty. So let's stick them together, let's show ourselves and others that despite everything, we are more united than what divides us. And remember, life is now. I beg the generals to rise up from their seats, and to remember the country. [[The senators rose up from their seats and prime minister, the daughter of Katrin, the daughter of Jacob, and said, Our whole president and earth. Iceland lives, and the senators took the word with a four-fold hurrah shout.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-11.u2	Since the last meeting of the General Assembly, one former general has died, Ingi Tryggvason, a farmer. He died at the medical facility in Húsavík 22th of August. He was in the 98th year of his life, the oldest of the former members of the council. Ingi Tryggvason was born at the Little Lyme in Smokey Valley on February 14, 1921. His parents were Tryggvi Sigtryggsson, a farmer in Lyscoli, in the Valley of Smoke, and his wife, won the Unnur of Sigurjónsdóttir from Sandi. He had a strong cultural background to count in the districts and members of the council. In 1942Ingi Ágg Tryggvason finished his teacher's test. He worked as a teacher for the next four years in the North and East but then went outside to pursue additional education, first at Askov in Jutland, then at the university of teachers in Copenhagen and finally at The Polytechnic School of Modern Languages in London, in 1946◯1948. Then Ingi returned to teach the main work for a more than two decades, or until 1970. Most of the time, he was at the Shire School at the pool. He was in association with a farmer at Kárhiol, Rhivjadal, from 1955 to 1986, and then he became a traveling minister at Narfare sites in the city of Rhivjadal from 1988 until the last few years. In additionIngi teaching and farming also served as the savings manager for Sólveri Sólveri Sólveig in 1952-1974. He was director of the information services of agriculture in Reykjavík, 1970,1974. A social worker Ingi Tryggvason, from the moment he reached adulthood, laughed at him many committees and administrations in the province. Furthermore, he was in the management of the Farmer's United States of 1969,1987, and was president of the European Government from 1981. The management board followed a number of other executives of the agricultural industry. Ingi Tryggvason first took up the Agency list of the Agency's district of the Northern Country States in the 1967 election, became a deputy of 1971, and elected the General Assemblyman for the 1974 District and served one terms, i.e. until 1978. In that year, the elections became the leading party, and Ingi did not get the vote. As a result, he became involved in politics and went to his former job. He sat in all at eight legislatures, of which he was a deputy of three. At the General Assembly, Ignium, roadIngi and other interests of the district were the most important thing to do. He was the head of the full - time board of directors in the upper department. Tryggvason was a culturer, like many of his contemporaries, and he cultivated an active forest throughout his life, made natural protection his way, and was in the management of the Land protector in 1975-1981. When Ingi reached his pension age, he did not slow down as most people do. Rather, he became a pioneer in tourism and built with his family a large business at Narfare. He was chairman of a temporary travel service offering. Tryggvason was active all his life and conscientious and faithful in the responsibilities of his contemporaries in the provinces and of his fellow workers on a national level. He was a successful and popular teacher, as the president can testify, a good speaker, a gentleman and a bride in all manner, warmth, and joy. He made the best of his home, and had a happy, happy, happy, and satisfied last days at the Wooderbrek, the National Institute of Health, in Húsavík. I ask all councilmen and guests to remember Ingga Ingi of Tryggvason by getting out of their seats. - [[Senators rose from seats.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-11.u3	I'll tell you what. Allied members and members of the General Assembly at the assembly ceremony welcome them. I expect us to have a good and upbuilding cooperation with a new legislature and hope that our work will be a country and nation's benefit. I also greet the staff of the Generals, and I know from long experience that they will exert themselves and will do their utmost to make a success of the work here at the council. During the past two years, we are now meeting for conferences in the traditional period of time: Congress was not put in 2016 until December, and in 2017, the General Assembly was placed twice every three months, in September and December that year. Therefore, as we have an entire assembly ahead, the work should be done more and more organized. When present government groups were formed by the end of November 2017, it was a pleasure to note that in the government covenant, special emphasis was given on promoting the General Assembly. This emphasis has been reflected, both in budgets for this year and in financial programmes. In accordance with the sources of this year's budget, there will be steps to improve both the quality of legislation and the quality of the financial and surveillance of the General Assembly. Is the recruitment of new experts to this end. There's financial contributions to special service at councils, but the largest change in the material to be made, although aiding members of Congress, is intended to give significant support to their work during this terms of election with members of the council at this assembly and so on in the next two years. The Council's Presidency Committee arranged the Parliament's work programme for 149, the legislature in mid - August. having agreed with the government and with the heads of Congress. The work programme is basically the same as it was during recent meetings. I reiterate my position that it is important that the work programme be a significant work plan for the Generals. It is important that members of Parliament be able to plan their tasks well on the basis of it and weekly plans. I also thought it desirable, if possible, that the work programme would be in place earlier in the year which is very important, and it is very important that the government's targeted and practical Constitution should be available prior to the establishment of Congress. This year this new development has been taken up to the highest level. Prime Ministers would like to agree on the problems between the Council and the Council and the Constitution. Have two such meetings already been held; in April 2000. and now at the beginning of the council. Then I'd also like to report that soon the end of work will be provided for the final design and the production of shipments for new construction at Aldus County. The Commission's Subcommittee has had a good cooperation with the government and architects of the house. This meeting will soon be postponed, and I would like to ask members and guests to accept the occasion of the Lord's Evening Meal. I'm waiting for the highest. Prime Minister, to walk out of the hall with me to toast. This meeting will now be postponed until the next hour. 16th
