ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u1	Mr. President. The day was the day when people die on a waiting list, and they were discussing persons waiting to get into the Vog. In writing an answer from a health minister, where I asked for a waiting period for a psychological service, it said that the waiting period for that service was up to nine months. In some places children have to wait up to four months to reach, but a minister believes that they will be successful in building psychological services throughout the country. I'm putting this out here because we can't make it work this way. It's like this, though. Now the activities of mental health are being reduced, and I, like most others in this hall, received a letter from Aldís Þóra Steindórsdóttir, asking for help for her father who has been on the waiting list for some time. All she asks of us is a sure, fitting future house for her father. During the week of committee, we received visitors who discussed a waiting list. One of them told us: " Don't wonder about the length of the waiting lists, wondering what has gone on, what you can do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u2	A respectable president. I'm going like a what? A senator who spoke before me discussing the housing market, though by just another approach. On the evening of April 16th. That's exactly what we discussed about the housing situation. Department of Social Affairs proposed changes to the law on the apartment loans. We've had a conversation in this room about this important market quite often and frequently at the highest level. Social Affairs Minister who is also responsible for housing. However, I would like to reflect again on what I had discussed that fine evening when there were perhaps not as many people in the councilroom as there are now, whether we are on the right track when we distribute this weighty responsibility between ministers. So on the following day, or April 17, the Association of Industrial Affairs held a seminar on the housing market, where they suggested that we make the adjustment that one minister was responsible for this market. It is, in fact, the highest. Environment Ministers have a significant responsibility for what will depend on the housing market by responsible for all organizational matters and therefore also the construction, ministries, and regulations involved. V.E.G. Industrial and innovation minister is responsible for the industry as such and the industry, of course, but the industrial industry is one of our biggest industry. Then we have the highest. Transport and rural Ministers responsible for the affairs of rural society, but the rural communities are precisely responsible for housing, planning, and transportation. In this speech, I would like to ask myself, " Is it not long time for us to take up this group of subjects and to wonder if it would be better if there was one minister who had a collective responsibility for such a case? ' And then I'm going to use my last seconds to say, too, that I can't believe that in 2018, we're still relying on good information from the industrial organizations that are of the hand and of the hand, in the great computer age where, in fact, all these data are available from rural society or from different sources. It's amazing that we haven't been able to put all of this together in a good database that anyone who has used for this information could use. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u3	A respectable president. We are about to be cut short in our legislature, No. 148. Still, we are in the same place that we were in the fall, still having less than 10% of children with varying degrees of lack. We still tax poverty. Once again, we cut down a cent against a crown. Still, we prevent the elderly and others who rely on them but have to rely on the social security system from getting into the work market and working if they feel up to it. I feel quite sad that we'll soon enter the summer, on vacation, knowing that rights of 10 percent of our children have different levels of shortage. What's wrong? What's wrong with us here, 63 members of the council, to care for our people and to care for their interests so best and most of all we can and can? Can we all agree that taxing poverty is a national concern? It is a national pleasure to be involved and to know, knowing that children, some of them, live in poverty. I would have thought that this is now one of the matters that we could really, in any category, unite and eliminate the need for children to be poor in this great state of well-being in this country. I encourage everyone to do that. Let's do this. Let's show that we can do this. We just need to want to. There's nothing else we need. I can't believe that any senator would measure it if we really were to step forward and show courage and zeal and eliminate the poverty of children in Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u4	Mr. President. Iceland's well - being depends almost entirely on exports and services transactions, including tourism. We produce, for example. which is 6 million fish meals a day, while one of our exports is an aluminium, hardware, agricultural products, drugs, software, and many other things. It should not be surprising, then, that it is fundamental to have good vacation contracts with other countries, so tolls and salaries do not interfere with the progress of Icelandic companies. Today we are members of the EEA area, which provides us with almost unauthorized access to the economic systems of 30 European countries through trades and services, along with investments and free flows of labor and extraordinary numbers of other things. The EEA contract is Iceland's most important deal, absolutely. In addition, we are members of a 27 free trade agreement with 38 countries through EFTA partnerships and two two two two-sided contracts between Iceland and China on the other hand, Iceland and the Faeroe Islands. These treaties are primarily trades, and sometimes services, investments, and so forth. They're not as big as the EEA. International commerce is increasing, increasing trust between countries, and the complex interaction between economic systems as well. There is a much more likely to be peace and prosperity in the world when all work together in harmony with one another. If Icelanders are determined to pursue the opportunities, Iceland will better fit in with international values, we'll increase the prosperity in Iceland. We distribute economic risks and enjoy quality from all over the world. In view of the high amount of holiday pay for Iceland, there is good reason to find out how some government ministers today, especially the highest. Secretary of finance, have recently been forward with a bold debate over the shortcomings of the EEA Convention, our most important business agreement. It is entirely within the limits of reason to examine how the EEA Convention has been working in a thorough fashion, as it was done in Norway for not long ago but to speak down our European community together in some ill-predicted Bgret Suite is not an invitation for the people of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u5	Mr. President. I call attention to a synopsis proposal as long as possible. Councilmen Haraldur the son of Benediktsson and Vilhjálmur Árnason, along with the people here, have submitted for the restoration of the road over Ketir on their own. The proposals turn to the development of a transport minister involved in the preparation of environmental impacts and social and economic impacts of the project, including for tourism, urban development, and nature protection. The aim must be to complete the implementation of the project on February 1, 2019, and the implementation will begin immediately thereafter. Since it is a private project, it is important to note that the construction of the project does not affect priorities beyond other important transport projects, which are to be undertaken on a private basis. Emphasis is placed on the use of tourist roads. There are many evidences that they are improving the course. These include safety, based, and environmental perspectives. Clearly, a growing number of tourists are testing the interior of society, so it is important to consider investments in that area. Travel services are a key element in national employment. During wintertime, the number of tourists has also increased dramatically, and these have reached tourist times throughout the year. Thus, annual fluctuations have been equalized, but much work remains to be done. Studies have shown that large numbers of tourists travel only in the South and southwest corner of the country despite the fact that natural bulbs and nearby tourist attractions are being found around the country. By means of a full - year journey across the Grand Prix, it is possible to cut to the top of national corners, making it easier to travel to the Northland and across the highlands, thus opening up the possibility of a new tourist attraction.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u6	Mr. President. I have come up here to discuss disappointment, frustration over the response of the Government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, who now has a unique opportunity to show courage, the opportunity to fulfill his word in the Treaty, and to correct the terms of one of the oldest women class, to correct the ideal midwives who are not asking much. They only want a salary that matches their education and jobs rather than reduce their salary when they add to their education. Mr. President. Today, 95 midwives who have done domestic services with women and newborn infants have lost their jobs - understandably, without contract, and apparently have little or no answers. Yesterday, the minister referred to medical institutions as having been assigned to do this service, but it may be possible that local midwives receive 4,394k. in time for healthy women to do this work and to do it. A mother's deposit in a women's ward is about 100 far away. K. ritonavir. This reward may be obtained by nurses who perform home services equally during weekdays, weekends, and holidays. You don't have to be particularly good at bank accounts to realize that this way is not particularly practical for the State, i.e. to refer women to innuendos, when this can be done in a much more practical way at home, which is also particularly supportive and preventive even if the agreement with midwives would be raised. Thus, there are both financial and social advantages that indicate that the agreement with midwives on home service is worth much more. It can be said that it is the same with all midwives. Mr. President. How is it that the Ministers of the Governments of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, do not want to do anything for midwives?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u7	Mr. President. I'm going to discuss the state of law enforcement in Iceland. The number of police in Iceland has decreased dramatically over the past few decades as their work and their trade as well as its trade and its tourists have increased at the same time. The number of tourists in Iceland has increased by 200% in the past decade. The number of automobiles in the streets has increased by 50%. At the same time, the number of police in Iceland has decreased by 11%. According to a legal program covering the year 2012, the estimated number of policemen in that year would be 804. Today, there are 660 officers in this country. There is no new law enforcement program, but it covers 2012, but according to the Justice Department website, there was to be a plan for law enforcement in March 2017. In view of the 2012 police program, it may be carefully estimated that there should be a minimum of 200 police figures since then, so there should be about 800. It takes a person and a time to investigate a case, a call for domestic violence can take hours. A study of sexual immorality requires great knowledge and can take a long time. Educating the cost of money that has been used and organized for years is a time - consuming investigation. Therefore, more than the number of sentencing officers needs to be increased, as is true of those doing criminal work. It is a right both to the offender and to the doer that their speech is dealt quickly and that the result is soon to come. Of course, the police themselves cannot complain much; they cannot advertise their few. She cannot admit that in some ways she has an impotence. By doing so, she would be cutting down the security of her cities. So this is where the Council has to intervene. According to my sources, about 5,000 cases are waiting for the police investigation in the capital area. This means that thousands are waiting for deliverance in their affairs. Only sex offenders have 200 waiting cases. [[The president calls.]] Police are one of the basics of society, and all citizens of the country should be able to obtain police services at any time of the day on short notice. By doing so, we make sure that we are safe and well - being.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u8	A respectable president. The Haukur of Hilmarsson, action, and combatant for equality and freedom and for wealth and oppression, has been lost since the beginning of February. There was a report that he was counted dead after the invasion of the Turkish army in Aphrin, Syria. There Haukur had joined the brutal fighting forces, but Kurds have been persecuted for years by dictatorial governments in Iraq, Syria, and now, in the last Turkey. The forces that Haukur fought with them contributed to the war with the terror forces that have identified themselves in Islamic lands. It was February. Since then, Haukur's family and friends have not been allowed to know for sure about his end. Me and the Icelanders are a seamen's people, and I think most of us can imagine what it is like when a loved one is lost and thought it wasn't going to be a war, and there's no way to say goodbye, a little confidence can stop the wounds from healing. While there is yet no conclusive information on the outcome of Haukur and the failure of his earthly remnant, there is the possibility that he is alive even in the custody of Turkish government. Yesterday, an open letter was published by 400 people who sent prime minister to Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter. Commenting on this, Haukur's family was well - informed, the government did not give full weight to the government in Turkey, U.S. government in NATO. A respectable president. The feeling that governments will not be complete with them cannot be added to the grief and pain of loved ones. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u9	V.E.G. President. I'm going to talk to you about meetings of committees week. A financial committee met with all the professional committees, where we met a minister and staff recruiting related causes of heartburn. So we finished a meeting today with what? The job committee and the highest. Minister of innovation and travel. I'm going to give my opinion on that arrangement for meditation on other council members and members. I believe that time was well spent and that the meetings were successful, of course not unscrupulous. The program was packed, and there were conflicts and pressures, so, of course, this is not an unprovable arrangement. For example, the time available for each member of the committee is due to ask questions, the key. However, I felt that this arrangement was well received, and members of the committee show the patience and understanding I mentioned here. Not by default. I want to thank you for your cooperation and the committees for getting this together. I feel that we should really go over this arrangement and discuss whether there is something we want to build on and expand when we go through these issues, such as state financial and financial policies, and even financial laws, with regard to the time and how he made use of the committees. Of course, there are a number of subjects to care for. But most of all, I wanted to thank the cooperation of a respectable president during the past week.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u10	Mr. President. Prevention is the good thing, and the most successful age is connected, and appropriate physical activity is known to all. Data from extensive studies are falling in the same direction. They practice various experts and idealists. According to Guðlaugsson Goddson's medical study in this field, daily activity for 30 minutes results in greater efficiency and increased strength and motor skills at 60 years of age and older. Strength training, such as the use of tools and management along with exercise, has a similar effect. Daily for 30 minutes for six months, and several training periods each week reduces blood pressure and has a positive effect on other major blood values. This is Janus' conclusion. A test project in the city and the Southern Institute of Health and Health, along with Janus's health benefits, is very effective, according to extensive measurements. A recent and comparable project by Janus and health workers is planned at Hafnarfjörður, and other rural communities intend to perform this preemptive and related task. But to the financial side. That'll cost a million and a half. K. each year, about two people living in a nursing home. For the same amount of money based on the experience of Smokejanestown, there may be a total year delay in the arrival of 4,800 nursing homes. If you don't have to be in a nursing home for 100 instead of the two, 1,200 million are saved. K. every year. If it's 1,000, it saves 12 billion a year. In other words, the defenses are very effective. Others are thinking about them, and further official support is natural. We should find that form of government on our part as soon as possible, which is a challenge to the council and to the minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u11	A respectable president. May 25th. takes effect in the European Union on a Regulation I intend to call the General Data Protection Programme. It is called General Data Development, English, abbreviated GDPR. This is the biggest leap forward in personal protection, I think, from the very concept itself being invented. It's like a lot of good regulations from the European Union. Here in Iceland, we're gonna have to put it in the law and record it the same way. On the other hand, the bill is not still in the air from the highest level. Minister of Justice on this subject. It's starting to worry me a lot, and I've mentioned this before. If the bill comes too late and we don't do it well, we're likely to be making mistakes about the legal process that can have a very bad effect on the various stakeholders in Iceland in order to comply with this new law. It can be difficult, it can be expensive for companies and institutions to deal with such changes, so it is important that we do this well and that we do this as soon as possible. In fact, we should have done this a long time ago. That's what worries me. I'm also worried that we're simply gonna be late. I don't want to think that through. We'll have to spit on our hands and get this over with if we're gonna be leading in this area. It was in Iceland that we were going to be responsible for freedom of information, personal protection, and data security, and the like. We're not. It is this kind of work that underscores the boring fact. I read a story earlier showing that Facebook is fleeing this European legislation. Of course, I had to tell my friends and family about this, and I went out on Facebook to tell them about it. Then I had to update terms that I disagreed with, and I had nothing to say, and I had to agree with them to tell people about this. Finally, I'd like to suggest that once the GDPR has become a law in Iceland, we'll settle between companies that follow it and those who don't. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u12	A respectable president. Prior to the weekend, the World Research Institute published the results of the founding of bottom fish at the end of February until March. This is the so - called tug - bark layer that has been carried out in a comparable way. 33 years, i.e. of 1985. The results of these measurements are important as a basis for evaluating the size and condition of the major stocks of bottom fish in the country, such as cods, exodus, ewess, and macaroni. Of course, they weigh the conclusions seriously on the advice of fishermen on the overall fishing of our major crops. Many interesting facts are found when the report is considered. Anxiety, however, causes several decreases in the baseline number of cods from the same measurements a year ago, approximately A 20% decrease is measured in the above index range between the years, although it is noted in the report that the reduction from the average of the last five years is about 5%. What are the consequences of this assessment of the stock size of cod, our essential crops? This evaluation should be available at the beginning of the summer, which provides basic advice on fishing for the next year. In recent years, we have seen a happy increase between years of coding, with an increase of 16,000 tons in the fishing year 2010/2011 to 255,000 tons in the current fishing year. Even if the population farm's income from fishing has become relatively less efficient than a few years ago, no one is sharing that land is dependent on this resource. Could it be that for the first time in years, we are looking to the point where we will not be increased by the next fishing year or worse, that it will even be reduced from what has been? I believe this is important information that needs all the attention of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u13	Mr. President. Reports in recent times have discussed the announcement of the purchase of the King Guðmundur Kristjánsson on more than 34% share in HB Granda, which surprised many investors, and especially the pensions. The core points out that many shareholders may decide to sell their items directly across Guðmundur's will. This would be the most extensive trade of stocks on the registered market here in the past decade. The price was 16% above the registered market when the proposal was made and indicated that the value of the entire enterprise is less than 64 billion. The vast majority of this value is a host that the buyer will be able to handle in this business. There are questions about these purchases, e.g. Whether to test for maximum share in the quota. Is this too much convergence by law? How will the money be financed? The taxpayers depend on a number of things, not just because the government owns most of the banking system, which may be loans for the purchases, but because its sea resources are shared and expensive. The most searching questions in my mind are: Would you have asked for this price if such an officer were in a government and offered on a fiscal basis a more reasonable exchange of resources? Do the buyer trust in the same system and low fishing fees? Is it everyone in the present government's opinion that the sea resources are the national share? If so, how does this business fit that view? Is there any plan to prevent such development through the nation's resources as an individual source of wealth, but the resource owner is of little value and has virtually nothing to say? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u14	Mr. President. I'd like to make up the subject of a new creation in this country. We politicians often talk about how important it is to nurture innovation in society, how much we really rely on innovations in the development of a knowledge society for the future, to create valuable jobs for well - educated, academics, people, and to promote our educational systems in the process of caring for the needs of these growing articles. Of course, in this regard we believe that one of the largest growth opportunities in society is the change that is taking place here on a international scale, including the U.S. with the fourth technological revolution. But there is concern as we look back on the fact that in the past ten years, there has been almost no increase in the number of jobs in this industry in Iceland. At the same time that we have created some 20,000 new jobs in this country, 14,000 jobs have developed in tourism, 6,000 in public service, and some 400 in the current sector. We've got almost unchanged status since a decade ago. When it comes to political emphasis, it simply does not add up words and doubts. You must ask yourself, " Where is the ambition of the government when it comes to fostering the environment of innovation? ' We talk about spending 8 billion of our money to support innovation and this means setting priorities. We'll be spending about that. For example, 25 billion each year support agriculture. Each of the main growth opportunities is considered to be larger. It is obvious that we are not doing anything to support the management ground of this business and nothing when it comes to the most important, a stable environment, a competitive, low-growing environment, and a steady currency. There, the government gives wealth.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u15	A respectable president. I'd like to call the attention of a president and a council to the answer I received yesterday from the Supreme Court. Prime Minister on travel expenses and day money, Minister and Ministry. That's where I ask, by permission of the President: ▪ How many cases did ministers reimburse the portion of the day that is intended for travel costs to and from airports within the country? The answer is that the government should use its advisers to use a car for their work. As a result, a minister is usually driven to the airport in the Ministry's car. He also receives the daily allowance provided for that journey. The minister receives a free ride with both a secretary and a day's money at that expense. However, I asked: ▪ How often and how often did the annual reimbursement of Ministers and Ministry managers make money and what types of benefits they enjoyed abroad, and according to the rules of travel costs, to come to the recovery of everyday spendings? That's where the answer, by permission of the President, is one of the most funny things I've ever seen: ▪ A special assessment of the size has not been made so that it has resulted in subsidies from everyday spending. When you ask why you don't follow rules, the answer is often to have a tradition that somehow made it different. It's also a ridiculous answer, but it's even more absurd, that tradition didn't form. This is bullshit. This is totally disrespectful to the rules we set here. If we can't do this right, if ministers can't do this right, how can we assume that other people out here can abide by the law we're making? This means ministers go free and get money, get paid for going to the airport and back. They are paid a small amount for a free meal offered to them. They get money for buying a meal, if they get a free meal, they should reimburse the money they received, but they do not. [[The president calls.]] They get money for something free from the rules.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u16	Mr. President. I'd like to recommend a committee party. The welfare committee in this important matter or, in fact, these important matters. This is a case that has been in preparation for many years, or since the legislation on the affairs of disabled persons was accepted in 2011 and, in fact, a somewhat earlier, or since 2010, a judicial hearing was adopted by a member of Congress proposal adopted by a member of the then Parliament, Guðmundur Steingrímsson, for user-controlled personal assistance. The case has been in development and recycling, and it has actually been introduced to a council from this time onward. It's like the highest. The president came into it, i.e. Social services, as well as the matter of serving those who are disabled with a great need, are related to having full reason to discuss them. Hv. The welfare committee is on the case, and all members of the committee are signing as well as an officer in the hearing. I'll be talking about things at the same time, but the attention of what. Congress officials are called upon to find two changes, i.e. There is one committee opinion and two adjustments made that are faced with each case. In many ways, laws are new in the way they serve those who are disabled. That is why it is introduced into the United Nations Treaty on the rights of disabled people. Wait a minute. Senators consider both matters a little in that light. The committee came to him many visitors. There were probably about a third of the visitors if not more than 12 different parties and envelopes from more than 40 different sources and more than one from some. Of course, the committee has held many conferences on the matter, as well as repeated staffs of the Ministry and has sent some material to the committee and supported the development of the case. Then, members of the committee, and especially the executive and chairman of the Committee, have had some dealings with the authorities in order to get a clearer view of the viewpoints behind them in an effort to get the subject to the greatest agreement. I think it is safe to state that there has been a wide range of discussions in the community with and in this regard. At the outset, I also want to thank the members of the council, especially members of the Committee area, excellent work in the processing of the situation, and realize that without the support and initiative of the council, the matter would not be in the suit that we present it here. That's for sure. The changes made by the two prime projections suggest that for the general services of disabled persons, laws on local social services and the existing bill will be used to make more changes that we call long - term services needed, they will be directed to the bill, or the laws that will be carried out, in order to minister to disabled people with a great need. We talked a lot about it on the Committee whether the name of the bill was sufficiently vivid. In fact, the committee found that it might not be clear enough to what it talked about and that it was unnecessaryly narrow. So the committee suggests that the name of the bill will be changed, as indicated in the 14 making of the change and the bill for the treatment of disabled persons with long - term needs. So, in my history, I get confused by the names of these two bills, I pray you. Senators to respect it to me, but I will refer to the existing bill by the change in name I just described. The same is true in the beginning, Mr. President and what. Councilmen, that I'm very much involved in my history with the fact that this committee is following, but for the sake of time, there is no way of reading it from word to word. I got it. I got it. Councilmen to keep this in mind. I'd like to be some sort of thing that hasn't happened. People don't think that I specifically mention in my introduction, it's not because these factors are less important than others, but primarily because of the time. The committee exceeded the definition in its discussion, i.e. the points listed in paragraph 2. The bill. Our conversations with reporters show that it is right to change definitions in particular about the disability and definition of disabled people. The changes the committee makes in this respect sound to them, with permission of the maximum. President: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. a number. Words are: Acquired: As a result of the decline and barriers of various ways that arise in the interaction between people with impairment and environment and attitudes that block full and effective social activities as well as others. The damages of the individual involved are long - standing and the barriers to discrimination will fall because of physical, mental, or intellectual impairment or reduced perception. It is also a less important change in the definition of disabled persons, but in addition we add to the definition phase a new definition of work permit as read in the modification form. The committee talked a lot, including Article 3. The bill, on connection with age, had some harmony with the committee. The committee agrees on divulging a set of dates in the bill so that no longer will there be a certain age, i.e. that there is a difference between 67 years of age and older or less than 67 years of age. This is out of harmony with the committee, so to speak, we should simply say to modern - dayize the need for service to the age and, in fact, to the extent possible. Congress officials know of them have the highest authority. Social Affairs Minister, including asked the councilroom to work on even breaking law dates in the Ministry. Also, these comments were made by the committee that it was not quite clear that the bill also applies to persons under 18 years of age, but by the committee it is quite clear that it is as it is, in fact, in the opinion. The need for service was considerable, and there have been a number of speculations as to the wisdom of time understanding. The timeout of public service has ranged from 10 hours to 28 hours, depending on how people have read the data below. The committee feels that it is normal to enter a law of some kind of time limit on what may be considered a public service and what time limit should be considered to be regular service, such as the NEP. The committee concludes that 15 hours should be the norm, and the committee considers why. In line, the changes to the respective articles in both primary projections, one in the country's social services and one in the bill on services to disabled persons with a great need for support. That's where I got it right. Councilmen, so it's almost there. The Committee discussed some factors involved in the administration of the Supreme Director. Department of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities to the press, as stated in the Committee. I think, chief. President, I'll read that paragraph or that chapter here. He says, with permission from the President: ▪ The book, though, received some comments at Article 4. The bill on the management and the Minister's surveillance. First, a comment was made to the rendering of the 3rd proverbs of 1. The law on the fact that disabled people have a potential for active participation in environmental policies. It has been noted that according to the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people, the need to communicate closely with those who are disabled and their interest groups is clearly laid down. Officials feel that this word does not achieve the goal that disabled people have access to policies in their affairs. The committee agrees with these comments and suggests a change in wording according to the above comments. Second, the reviewers point out that the directive is contrary to administrative and civil rights regulations and is therefore not possible. Monitoring of the measures is expected to be for a minister who grants permission and is therefore not expected to allow any external monitoring. The committee agrees with these comments and suggests changing the wording of the law. It is the nature of the counsel (according to Figure 1. Section 4. in Article 3 of the amended proposal of the Committee) and opinions (according to the same proposal), there is no binding effect on the solution of a particular matter in the sense of administrative rights. There may be a doubt that the 3rd number of the above - mentioned changes made by the Committee are in close contact with a certain matter's release so that it can interpret the results of a minister so that it can have an binding right - to - do effect in the sense of administrative rights. The committee's not to be held in a court of law. The committee also discussed service territory. There was a debate that in current law on the service of disabled persons, it is defined that a service site should have 8 thousand people with certain exceptions, though and also with exceptions. In the bill and the modification proposals, there is no question about the size separation, but the committee believes that this is one of the principles that would be natural to review when the law is reviewed according to the provisional principle I am coming in on the following. There was a few discussions on the Committee on Private Service to disabled persons and proposed changes to Article 6. in view of the fact that a service under the user-controlled law, or in that part of the law, is not a profiteer, not a profit - loss service, and the commission has to do with it. Changes are made in terms of user contracts listed in Article 10. This is because during discussions with the committee and the committee, it may have been tempting to some extent for local societies and even to mention an example of directing users or servants into the process where user contracts are made, without perhaps the initiative of the users themselves. The Commission understands that contracts are actually a means of increasing the independence of users and perhaps primarily to ensure that they have more to say about service to them. Hence, the commission suggests a change of this arrangement to take the initiative to get a user contract at the user's disposal site. This is shown in section 6 of the transition proposal at Count 10. There was a lot of discussion about the management and rights of employees. It's not weird. It is a major human rights concern for the users, i.e. to have the advantage of user - controlled personal assistance; however, it is a big issue for those who serve in this service that their rights are respected and that they are not discounted. The committee is completely united in that. There should be no discount on the rights of working people, as shown in the opinion of the committee. They also discussed how to let, for example. The law on work protection and the like, not one workplace, but many, and in fact, even the whole community could be the workplace, but the committee points out that there are many jobs in the community where the workplace is not alone, of course. In accordance with the nature of the situation, employers of such workers are equally responsible for their work as expected in this bill. The progress of personal information was discussed, as can be found in Article 20. The bill. The committee decides to make a adjustment by means of a Persian protection tip, which is the adjustment of 20. And that will be the number 8 for the change. In fact, it is developing a way of handling things that allows personal information to be cooperated with the conditions set by the bill. This brings us to the section on children with severe mental and mental disorders. There was a pretty lively discussion, let's say, i.e. About 20. On the other hand, advice about paediatric patients with severe developmental and mental disorders, and 21 respectively. par., about living children outside the home. There was a lot of discussion at the Committee on this matter, and then we talked back and forth, including... whether or not the name of the 21st paragraph should be changed. or its contents. However, the committee points out that this is actually two groups, i.e. children with multiple problems and children with severe psychiatric and developmental disorders, although in some cases there may be an overlap between groups. The second group is a small group of children who need much, long - term, long - term service, so it is very important that that that group not be overlarged and more children fall under the definition. The big issue, however, is another concept, one of the same children as I did, but it can also apply to children who have problems with drugs, children with learning, etc. We appreciate it so much that there is no reason to make major adjustments in these articles, but perhaps the title of the articles, especially 20. g., reflect the contents and therefore add to title 20. The term "diversity " is translated from the New World Translation into the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures. The committee agrees that living out - of - house children should be a complete emergency, and it is important that in order for children to have a place outside their own home, a good analysis of their problems and that attempts for other solutions have certainly failed. There was quite a discussion in the committee on consultation, including ... withcharitors. Well, then we're talking about 36 st. The bill, I think I'm gonna handle it right, to VIII. section. This is clear, as the committee believes, and has learned that there is a great desire in the community to improve communication with disabled persons, with disabled persons directly. Hence, the Committee that speaks of the consultation committee in Article 36. motion to suggest that, in fact, a greater part of disabled individuals are organized and that according to the nature of the case, it is the responsibility of the Ministry to ensure that it is, as shown in the case of the change. There was a considerable discussion within the committee, and we thought, in fact, if I recall one meeting on that matter, we would think. how to evaluate the need to serve those who are disabled. In this article, the section SIS is called the assessment, for the simple reason that it is food that is most used and perhaps that which has been almost exclusively used in this country. The Commission believes that at least so far, it has not yet been shown that there is an alternative and better instrument, but it agrees with the views that have come across constantly to evaluate and reevaluate what tools are being used, that it is important that those who are to enjoy the ministry be honored, that is an open and effective conversation between parties, all the way in which the service is performed, and those who will receive it. It's tore up in the commission. We even lay it down. to be considered in the context of a review. There was a lot of discussions, especially in the winter when we discussed the NAPA, when provisional regulations were being made to extend negotiations this year, whether the cost of a share would need to be reviewed between the state and the local community. The committee has concluded that there is no reason to make a separation in the law that this cost rate will be changed, but it is important that, over the next two to three years, while we are actually running these laws, it will be carefully evaluated in cooperation between partners and the State as to whether these costs are correct, i.e. 75/25, 75 in rural areas and 25 in state, or if they need to examine any other percentage of these. The number of contracts per provisional agreements or the laws that we agreed on here in the winter, in fact, they are primarily included in the Committee, and then in temporary I on this bill, shall be 103 contracts next year, in 2019. However, this year's Congress has already agreed that we will make 100 contracts this year. It may be that the council and the Ministry need to reevaluate this provision according to their experience sooner or later, and that is something that will just have to be revealed. At this point, however, the Commission does not make a special suggestion for a change in the table contained in the article on provisional regulations I. But I reiterate that this may be important. With regard to caregivers in NPA contracts, there is no discussion at all. The Parliamentary Commission makes a great point of establishing a clear set of rules in which to determine what their will is in each case. The committee does not believe that this is a reason to assume that candidates can be servants of the agreement, but we have truly heard comments and concerns about them and to some extent agree with them. In the case of waiting lists and waiting times, it was in the panel's discussion that they think it's late to set the rules on the Ministry, as mentioned in Article 34. The committee recommends speeding up such rules so that those who submit to these laws at any time know their rights, and it will not be the temptation of any place to extend the period of waiting with a slower payment in certain areas of government. The Committee suggests changes in values. It's a big, big case. There are a number of related regulations yet to be set aside. The work on them is started in the plot and, in fact, advanced in some cases, the committee considers it wise not to allow the law to take effect until October 1. so that this work will not be a timer, as it might be. A provision for temporary I is made on the committee's proposals a little more detailed than was in the bill. The committee feels that there are a few things that need special attention. The change in age should be followed by the change in age. There is a review of the number of contracts that need to be performed, the experience from contracts using ventilators. The SIS evaluation or assessment device must be reviewed. The costs, roles, and sizes of the consultation committee and other factors need to be reassessed. Then the committee wants to stress that in the sentence of these laws it is put into the provisional principle that those treaties that are in effect in the implementation of the law, i.e. valid MPA contracts continue. Mr. President. I see I don't have time to finish the whole thing, both the bills. [[The president calls.]] I will discuss in my next talk particular a bill to legalize the law on the social services of my community. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u17	President. Hv. In his talk, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, a senator and chairman of the case, reviewed the committee's opinion. Well, I guess I understand what I'm saying. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson will be so prepared to discuss the social services in his talk. But I wanted to come up only to celebrate the fine work that has taken place on the committee in the processing of this prime project. When the committee received these important bills, it was apparent that much work was ahead to settle matters well. The trip to the reconciliation was to agree with stakeholders, so we ensured the presence of those who have an interest in caring for all our work. The aim was to open up the work as much as possible and to bring the consultation process to a sense of cooperation that was absolutely necessary to ensure the share of all in this important legal matter. I have a modest sense of pride in the results, and I hope that those who shared in the work are also. The most important changes to the Committee are in my opinion to include provisional and part of the Committee's opinion on consultation. Interim regulations ensure that once experience has been established on the new law, they will be reviewed with a view to making them better, i.e. that they serve more fully their purpose, which is to fulfill the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People. It ensures that the percentage of disabled people on a meeting committee on the issues of disabled persons will never be in smaller parts and the Ministry will ensure that they do so. Of course, there are things that I think might have been better off, such as. removal of NPA contracts. I think it best that anyone who needs and wants more personal use should have access to it, but it didn't seem wise to open up in one moment. I have a certain understanding of that approach, although I disagree with her. Finally, I would like to say that in spite of the vast and difficult work that the Ministry, the Committee, and the stakeholders have made with these bills, they are almost ready to make such important changes that these laws include things that need to be taken into consideration and to work objectively. Therefore, I believe that there is a key to making disabled persons secure access to their jobs to revise and improve the law. It takes time and the approach of many to develop a new approach. We must not be afraid to experiment as long as we work together professionally and objectively, listen to one another, borrow each other's judgment, and respond in a hurry and a good way, hopefully the final outcome will be a valuable reform for society.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u18	Madam President. I pick up the thread that was left behind, and I'm going to discuss briefly, I'm not going to tire out. Senators, for a very long time, the aspects of community service and the changes we're making in them. What has to do with the adjustment is, in effect, that we are bringing the laws in line with our international commitments so that our management will conform to the commitments we have applied and that they fit, let's say, to the law on support, service to disabled people with long - term needs. As I mentioned in my talk earlier on the second bill, the committee felt that a change was needed in the section on governance. In effect, he is moved according to the chapter in the bill on the service of disabled people with long - term needs. There is an accordion between the two. As regards the duties of a member of a community, the section on the need for Service indicates that some discussions in the Committee were created to limit the right to NPA services to some form of minimal need. There was a lot of talk, like I just came in earlier. In order to maintain agreement between the law, the Commission proposes the general public service, i.e. The services the rural community provides under the general economy will be up to 15 hours per week, but the MPA treaties will generally not be considered until the service has reached their target. It'll even come. to say that in terms of a need to serve less than 10How15 hours, there is a bit of effort to set up an administrative procedure and all that follows, taking on an employer's role in a work-percent position that is somewhere in the range of 205.925%. That's why these limits are set. Granted, the local community is saying that they are successful in rendering service up to 15 hours in average. We believe this, and we trust that our rural society will have that ambition and will do well in it. There were also questions and discussions on the subject of driving. But in E Company 5. The bill is presented with a new set of regulations for driving, which are building on the same subjects as the regulations that have been provided in Article 35. Pondering the Matters of Disappointment, No. 59/1992. At the law's revision, the regulations for public service were better handled by social services. This is not a service that applies exclusively to any particular group; it can refer to those who are disabled, elderly, i.e. those who have this particular need for service. So moving her there seemed to be much better. In harmony with the nature of the situation, communities have expressed concern that this can cause the expense and therefore want to make sure that they have custody of the driving services and are very much concerned about the setting of rules and how all of this is going to turn to them. So the committee suggests a change in these joints in the bill. That's a three-piece, a three-piece. Now we're talking about the transformation document on the social service bill, what? Senators. The suggestion reads: The secretary gives further instructions on driving services in consultation with the European Union and the NGOs of disabled persons, including the U.S.A. The preparation for road transport outside a rural society and the cost change due to road service should be established at the discretion of the country. It is very important, however, that this discussion should be conducted and that it is clear that it is the role of the Ministry to assume that this will be done. There is a responsibility for the Ministry to accept this matter. Then it is natural, as if we were operating public vehicles or public transportation or something like that, that once we have defined our driving service in this way that a public service itself leads to an expense or payment that may be arranged. Otherwise, a couple will be paid for by other public transports, which are then members of the local community. But, of course, the rural communities will claim to that nature of the matter. Madam President. I want at the end of my speech to thank you. The welfare committee is very much involved in this matter. I think it may be safe to say that such a big and complex matter is a huge burden on the members of the committee. It takes members of the committee to settle into some complex issues that they would not, under other circumstances, have been so deeply involved. I think it's safe to say that all members of the committee were very interested in this matter, that everyone was actively involved in the discussion within the committee, and that is well. Under the headings of both bills, all members of the committee write each year. Health Committee: Director Halldóra Mogensen, President Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Árnadóttir Kolbrún, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Guðjón S. Brjánsson, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, and Vilhjálmur Árnason. In addition, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson is an officer of the hearing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u19	V.E.G. President. We're here discussing two prime points, one bill to legalize the services of disabled persons with a great need for support and a bill to legalize the social services laws, No. 40/1991, with subsequent changes. For the first bill, 59/1992 will be replaced by the original laws followed by the Social Services Act. I feel comfortable and unavoidable to discuss these bills together, discussing them together in one committee party, though it certainly did. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, who was the leader of history, has a problem in covering this vast issue. But the work on the bills has been done since the beginning. I reroute it to a group of members appointed by Ministers to review these laws on the issues of disabled people and community services. It is obvious that very good, careful, and extensive work has taken place on the committee. These issues are extensive. There are many opinions, different viewpoints, a number of economists, and many reviews. Of course, they are all matters, so they must be handled well, but these cases require a special time, such as why. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, president of what? The welfare committee, went over earlier, They require more cooperation than all of them with the stakeholders involved. The objective is to ensure the implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of Infirm People. It was and has been laid at work all along in preparing the bill to ensure the introduction and validation of this contract approved by the General of September 16, 2016. But it was signed for Iceland a lot earlier, 2007. So it is clear that a very long time has passed. We can't see it coming in the law until now that I know. I think the most important step is that the contract has been taken into account in all aspects, and when we go through articles of the bill, the terms of the contract are behind it. The same applies to the changes in the social services of the community in which the management and role of social committees are being adjusted, and to coordinate the role of a minister on how to handle disagreements that arise and explain the whole process within the management system. One of the big coverages and preparations were, like, rough. The official of the case, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, came in, the community's demand for increased consultation, to keep them at the table that uses the service, and to say much about these matters. The same goal was underlying all the time, to introduce the human rights that the contract involves. That's the big deal here. Many other very important changes in social services are being made. How important it is to enhance all aspects of the rights of those accepting service, and then sharpen the role of the local community when it comes to performing the ministry and to make it more possible for them to perform this service as a member of the community! There's a lot of things I'd like to go over, but I'm going to go over it when a team of workers began a formal review of these two laws. At that time, there were a number of counts, but one of them had been very much in the discussion and was the goal at the time of the lawsuit's transfer from state to country to partner, to put it together in one law. It was the first task of a group to talk through it. Some time went on that discussion, and whether it was time to include services to disabled persons in the local community service, or whether this was a requirement for continuing service in special laws. It was a fundamental question at that point and had to be answered before the work of that group would continue. Of course, there were very different viewpoints and opinions, and they had to go through them. Of course, it can be reasoned that this is a physical law in which social services are common in the nature of their framework laws that allow communities to be able to expand their own regulations for services administered on the basis of the law. It may be said that something else is inevitable. The laws on the affairs of disabled persons are addressed to rights that must be detailed in what service to be offered, how to make decisions, and how the service should be performed. Therefore, it can be said that it is difficult to find someone between them by putting them together in one law without losing the scope needed by the communities, but with a more thorough decision to perform community social services, it is impossible to prevent their own self - determination, and, on the other, it is harder to secure the physical right, the right that is found in the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people. It was at this point that it would be easier to secure a service of loyalty and to obtain a clear law of law on the issues of the contract in Icelandic legislation. In the end, it was. The kind of induction, or validation, such as what we watch in these bills, is a major breakthrough. However, the evidence is that by uniting this service in one law, all key laws relating to the activities of rural society in the same legislation can be set up. You can see the benefits of achieving the integration of public and specific services, which was one of the plans for the transfer of services to disabled persons, as I entered earlier. But the landing we're looking at here has a similar appeal elsewhere, e.g. in Sweden and Finland, where there are special requirements for services to disabled people with a lot of service as well as regular social services, and in Norway, where there are social services and along with laws on the rights of disabled persons who include them. the content of personal assistance by the user. It was a fine situation as soon as I think it was a blessing. The law is still separated for a time, but it is more specific, as the committee shows, and even more so, with a change in the title. You can see the evidence in this, and, of course, how happy it is to be at last to have this place with this vital service and adapt to the agreement! It is no less important to have this service and the law on continuous revision, as it is in a law, and to have it further in its committee's home and its new proposals. That's good, because that's the way it is. I'm just coming in on the bill's name. It is important that we at the same time be taking steps to legalize the user - controlled personal assistance. Another group prepared this job and returned a report to the minister so that the work would be done. The welfare committee was pretty much, i.e. to accept and do all that work. I like it. The welfare committees have done very well in this regard. If we do get it established, such as a corpse - a special task force I'm quoting here was set up as early as 2011 and returned a report to the Minister, which will form the basis for these two primes we're considering here. It is said that the change in the terms of the law, from law on the affairs of disabled people, in law on services to disabled people with great need, highlights what was the main ingredient of what we were dealing with in the task force. It has to do with rights, which can be said to a mirror at the same time the clip that turned in the beginning to discuss one law or two. They are expected to meet individuals who need more service than would in order to be legally established. This is true of public service with disabled persons, social services laws, and legal adjustments in these laws in order to meet public support services. At the same time, it's in the opinion of the dog. The welfare committee. It explains the change in the title, which still highlights the misunderstanding when it comes to handling equality and securing the needs of service. That is what the committee noted. European Commission, with permission of the President's office: The terms of the law were discussed by the reviews, and the use of the word "company " could include discrimination on the part of people after their disability. Regarding the importance of equality and the need for a person in need of service because of his disability and who receives a service that he or she has a right to and needs on the basis of local community service laws, No. 40/1991 is not at all nor must any less than those who receive service on the basis of this bill. The expression was replaced by e·rou·siʹa, which is used for the purpose of the word "long - lasting " (or," long - term ") or" long - term. " The committee suggests a change in the terms of the law, and I support that change but stress, as the committee did, that there is no material change in the bill. This approach was originally planned, and it was related to the law's name in the bill, that they should have the right, i.e. Their right to the law of highly supportive disabled people is better off and more reserved. Thus, the general human rights we see in a constitution, in the United Nations Convention, and in other laws, such as social services, are emphasized that the disabled have the rights of others. That's the point. Similarly, laws about services to disabled persons with a great need for support are in addition to the general right. It's important to look at it that way. This emphasizes at the same time that these laws are laws on service, not on all matters involving those who are disabled. Hv. There were many other factors that I would like to review, but I think I'm about to get into the same trouble. An GunnarssonÞór just talking and not reaching out for everything. But I think I've come up with the basics. There were factors involved in management, monitoring, consultation, dating, service definitions and are very convincing to the changes made on the bill. I also know that a lot of people have done this, and a lot of cooperation has been carried out to achieve a positive change. I don't make any comments to the changes in the bill. They're all very well thought of. I just want to say at the end that it's obvious and will not be told enough that a great job and cooperation with everyone on this important matter has taken place.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u20	A respectable president. I want to agree with what. A member of the council and prominent authority, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son, and chairman of the Committee, Hallóru Mogensen, of the well - being of the committee. We will discuss services that are very supportive to disabled persons, but we are going to turn a high level of ◯ into a long - term (long - term) program. A large part of the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people is being introduced there. We are also discussing the bill to legalize the services of disabled persons who have a great need for support in the rural community. The committee had an amazing teamwork. I just say for my part that it would be inconceivable that such cooperation would be in all areas of the committee's work where a determined desire to listen to users of this service, those who need this service, to listen to what they want. It's simple in this sort of thing, that if the users don't have them, it doesn't work. I'm about to go over the committee opinion we've already been working on. As the bill says, it is very important to consult with disabled people. With the president's permission, I'm going to read a chapter that would be very important to keep in mind: The commission created a great deal of discussion on the importance of consultation with disabled people and their interest groups in all policies and legislation in the affairs of disabled people. They call for greater consultations with disabled persons and point out the importance of all consultation committees on the affairs of disabled persons to be called to the table by more disabled people than they have so far. According to one authority, large groups of disabled people were avoided by committees and advisers. The committee agrees with these comments and emphasizes the importance of being included in the decision - making process by those who are disabled. In particular, the committee suggests a change of 36th. The bill on the Management Board on the issues of disabled people who make sure that the percentage of disabled members of the Convention Committee will always be at least 50%. The committee also feels that it is proper for the Ministry to make sure that the disabled are in more part of the committee and suggest that such laws be added to 36rd. This is very important. I'm so glad it's finally come in. In that context, I would say that we should, in effect, take it up everywhere to respect the people of the law, always consult with them, not work against them. It is simple that if we always work against the people who are supposed to be using the laws, we will not be very effective. Then there's another one coming into this, i.e. The SIS that was a little divided. It was normal. It seemed to ask in some strange way, both in terms of information law and protest. Some complained that they had not been allowed to see the food or disagree. Of course, they cannot object to judgment unless they are allowed to see it and receive it. With the permission of a president, I'm going to read a paragraph about it. The most prominent criticism is the method of handling, the way the results are used, the way the user is informed about the results, even access to them. There are conflicting issues in modern society, and access to information about people who are disabled is at issue. The request suggests that there is no reason to expect more than that the professional involved in the service need will work with respect to users and use the mainly food supplies needed to assess the need correctly. That is why it is so important in this bill that it is referred to as a reevaluation later. Three years, which is an excellent time to see if this works, especially in connection with the SIS assessment because in progress there is a new menu and hopefully better. I hope you'll agree more with the estimates than with the SIS as we saw them. Well, then, that's the value. It was supposed to be July 1st, but it is October 1st. That's normal. The rules were not ready, and it is better to take time than to start and do something foolish that needs to be corrected later. Anyway, I'd like to point out and agree that cooperation with the Committee was great in every way. As I said at the outset and again here, I sincerely hope that we will continue such cooperation. Let's work like this. If we do this, there'll be a lot more efficient work here at the council. If we can show respect for those who need to use the laws we put, listen to them, and make them feel at peace, use them in all our work, we'll win the law more clearly, and everyone will be happy. That's what's missing here at the council. I really hope that we are on that path now, and with this bill, we are doing it well. I hope we keep going.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u21	Madam President. This bill is the product of noble goals. The theory behind it assumes that disabled people are in control of their ministry rather than accept it from institutions or from scripts. It is a noble goal to make it possible for disabled persons to hire help individuals according to their needs in their daily lives. In order for these goals to become reality, financial contributions, of course, must be followed. A review of the European Union on the bill says that the relationship has doubts about whether the budget of the project, at least over the past few years, will be due to normal work expenses. It is very important that we keep in mind the objective of this excellent bill. A number of factors enter there and are particularly involved in the recruitment relationship that would make them possible, rights and duties of employees and those who need the service. Such factors need careful consideration. In particular, it is important that this is between an employee and a certain head of law which has the approval of the Ministry and that the Council rests on an approved collective contract. All I want to do is come into work environments and equipment, which depend specifically on hours of work and rest. For example, it is important that these factors are well motivated and have to be developed, such as in the case of work conditions, in general equipment, housing, helpers, and light equipment, as well as the definition of the term "Cational Weight. " In this regard, you need to keep a good eye on the moral issues that can arise and need clear rules about what your employee should do, what is outside of his profession, what he should not do, what he should not do, what he may refuse, etc. These factors are mentioned in the panels to the bill at the Committee to Re-Elect. In this context, questions have been developed and are very important to address them clearly. In particular, a clear line of communication is needed between those who serve and those who make use of the ministry. Above all, it is very important that educational, study, and other aspects of life, presentations, and educational material regarding this service be available and done well. For the above and other aspects, particular attention should be paid to staff interests, rights and duties. But it is also very important that we examine the activities of NPA in the other northern countries where it is available. What is the experience of such an arrangement, and what can we learn from this? It is very important to look to the northern regions in that regard. I'd like to come on to more on the staff show in the end. As in the case of the assistant, so - called bridle duties, in fact, will test people for their decisions. It is important that those who use the ministry do not violate the assistant's self - respect with their instructions. There are factors that need to be considered and that no doubt have come to the board of the committee, such as regarding the helper, that he respects the user as a person with his own value and respect and the bed he deserves. It is also very important that the user does not treat the assistant as some kind of tool. So there's professionalism, which is really important. Finally, I'd like to say that the person needs some employment. There would have to be some process where it could be determined. A person who does not have it should not judge me to do this work. Finally, I welcome this bill and the good work done, the good cooperation and cooperation of the committee. It is my duty that, while this important matter is being done, it is essential that natural resources be assured and that we especially choose when it comes to the recruitment relationship, to hire people to do this noble and important work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u22	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The one before the speech is Þórarinsson's son. The reason why I object is that the senator gave me reason to tear a little bit more into the points he discussed in his talk, especially with regard to work care, rights and duties and duties of employees and users. We certainly tore this up in the committee opinion, but only to be said once more, it is perfectly clear by the committee, and the committee is completely united, not to give any discount on these factors. The rights of employees, collective agreements, and all of these must be fundamental to life, everything should be respected. We also discussed the moral matters; what will happen, for example. the recruitment relationship between highly associated parties? Is there even limited ability to do so? The committee chose not to go directly on that route, but it further directed to the rural communities that they can set the more specific rules in their rules. In the rules that rural society has already set in some places certain restrictions on how close the recruitment relationship can be between very close parties. The senator's words are very correct. This may at times be difficult. Regarding the value of money, it is one of the unfathomable concerns that the ASI introduced it in its reviews and terms to the Committee that it would be a real temptation for users to handle their contracts themselves in order to save themselves administrative expenses, as the committee shows. But it cannot be overlooked that there are also certain rights in allowing users to be citizens themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u23	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for better consideration of this important aspect. It is good to hear that this was discussed on the committee, and I agree that there are certainly certain rights that the individual might have something to say about this. It's in the spirit of the bill. But there's something else I mentioned earlier, i.e. to examine the experience of others. Then we have the North countries, and in these cases there's always something that can be reformed, fix. It is good to be able to look to the example and experience of others in this regard. Other than that, I thank you. A senator for taking a good look at the part I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u24	Madam President. I would like to slant only two points from a talk. A senator I forgot to mention, one about the experiences of other northern countries and the other about the educational issues. With regard to the experiences of other colonies, the Commission may not have overstepped it very carefully, but it was certainly done in the premonition committees and groups of work that were laid on the basis of the proposed bill. This was highly examined there. The Commission received information on how the other North countries handle these matters accurately. That's where we even came from. forward, as I suppose it would be. A senator is showing, at least in some North countries, that there are limits, and even restrictions, to the recruitment relationship between close relatives. But as I said earlier, we decided not to go that way. For the educational work, how important it is to make sure that those serving in this service have the same opportunity for education and progress as well as for gaining increased rights while doing this work as do other employees in the labour market! I want to thank you. A senator to point out this fact, for it is truly important.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u25	Madam President. I'd like to reiterate what I said before, it's a good thing that this has been discussed at the Committee, and all the rocks are wondering what might happen, etc. It is important in this regard. I just want to get into the financial program, that we can secure funding for this to become a reality. I'm convinced that we save in other places along the way. This also goes on, making the ministry available to the user happy and productive. We all know that it is public health, and mentally speaking it is very important to be able to stay at home and get help there rather than to have to be in an institution. There are many positive things in this regard. I really hope that we will secure funds so that this can become reality and that the noble goals I mentioned earlier will be fulfilled. Thank you. paritaprevir It's an excellent trip to Þór Gunnarsson's Ólafur.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u26	A respectable president. I'm glad we're discussing these two matters after bringing them to terms with what is best after a good deal of cooperation, exemplary. I'm not going through the basics of my speech. Hv. Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson has been very well treated here. I think I'm going to make it work for a second. Otherwise, I'm going to go over something that I think is important in the phase we're getting here, we're gonna get it done, as a matter of course. The welfare committee recommended, i.e. increasing freedom of choice in how services and assistance are being given to those in need, which are of great importance, can be acquired. It's about freedom of choice. We do not have the ultimate solution to their problems, as has often been said of the user - controlled personal assistance, as if here is the solution to all the problems. It's a long way from here. This is just one more with the available options. The worst thing we'll get into, in any system, whether with regard to assistance to disabled people with a lot of support or in child protection, is a failure. That's very bad. We have found it very well at work in this committee that the communities associated with the people and responsible for this category call for this option. That's good. Then it is important that there is more selection and our systems talk more, which we are trying to let them do by still holding on to the authority to make the contracts. That it is available to each individual. Then there is a matter related to this and now to the committee. There's supposed to be some rules about who can go to a nursing home, i.e. that younger people may be able to go to a nursing home if it suits them, so that the system is a little more complete, that there are no rules that would stop you if this is more convenient for you. I think it will be useful for everyone, that can help with many cases' release, and that there will be an enormous variety of openness between the systems and ensure their interaction. I think we're following that way. Of course, not all products of doubt and solution are dissolved in the metaphysics. Not at all. That's why the local community and welfare ministers are important regulations and regulations. There they will be solved in many respects. We have quite a good experience in personally assisting the user in an experimental project that has gone on for a few years. There doesn't seem to be any big problem there. Many things we are concerned about now have not been a problem. Granted, baits, not any major problems, have given us reason to be deeply concerned about this. The only problem seems to be the number of contracts. We found this after the contracts grew over the next year, a little bit of pressure on the subject was eased and changed. We need to keep our eyes on the number of our contracts, and with our expectations, how they are fulfilled. The other seems to have found a good way to go, and that is how it needs to be resolved. Everybody's willing to make it work. It gives you a little calm about how few major concerns have been of these matters that could certainly have been much bigger. That's the main thing I wanted to come to here. It's not the only option. It's one new tool that will solve the problems of many people, not all of them. It is still a responsibility to examine how we serve this group to the best and most efficient. Most of all, it is to ensure everyone's freedom of choice. We need to see if there are enough contracts, that is what is the greatest risk, and that the flow between all systems cannot be prevented and that there is no switch to resources for the elderly, the young, the old, this is for the disabled and the other for the disabled. We need to open it up a little bit. That's how I think we'll solve the problems of many people. Other than that, I thank you for your cooperation with the Committee and with the stakeholders in this regard. Granted, not everyone received exactly what they wanted, but I think we've reached quite a distance with a good transpirian reconciliation, cross-cutting agreement, between parties, the reconciliation that can be achieved. That is why it is a joy for us that we are discussing this today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u27	Madam President. I don't intend to keep this very far, but I'd like to express the satisfaction that the matter has come this far. I don't think it's all the more to say that this is a major turning point for the interests of disabled people, probably one of the biggest steps we have taken as lawmakers for years if not decades. It's certainly a big moment, and it's a great pleasure to see that the matter comes to an end at the council, and I know that it's done well in every way. Of course, since the then social and housing minister, Eygló Harðardóttir, has had a very long lead in preparing a team to work on the revision of Willum Þór Þórsson, who has already spoken up to this day. Then it came to me as the then social minister to bring it to the council for the first time, but it did not take time to complete it. Therefore, they are much more pleased to see the work that this year's well - being committee has put on this matter. Well, it seems to me that at least all the things I've been able to study are for the better. This, of course, is an enormously complex matter. For disabled people, there is an enormous change in rights. We still have a view of the land with its effect. Of course, the environment and rights of disabled persons are being dominated by the rights of independent living. I'm pretty sure we won't see where it leads us in the process of evolution, and we need to be very alert as a Congress to be prepared to make regular revisions of these laws. What a joy it is to see that the committee highlights this in its members! This isn't the end of the line. This is really an important step on the road. But we will have to continue to work with this subject, toss it, and to mold it to ensure that it will accomplish its goals. What a joy this is! I'm not going to waste my time on a material review. I find most of the adjustments made to make are a major improvement, and thanks to the Commission for the very careful and good work being done on the case and again: It is a tremendous joy to see that we are now reaching the end of this vital issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u28	Madam President. Today, there is reason to rejoice, and there is reason to rejoice. Many have been long - suffering and have waited, but this is a short wait for many. Two o'clock. is now a lengthy bill, actually two, and a committee's opinion. It is a human right that will contribute to great changes in the daily lives of servants, enabling many to start a new life, gain freedom, and independence. It applies to those who are so fortunate to receive a personal user-controlled contract, MPA, to the implementation of these laws. It will not all be the first event, unfortunately, but great will has been shown on the welfare committee that a financial committee, a social minister, and the government will make rapid negotiations so that equal will be cared for among the servants. It was one of the factors that developed in a variety of discussions with stakeholders, possibly not all of them at the same level; one person would get an NPA contract and another would not. But we, who stood up to this bill and regulations, hope that it will have been fenced and guaranteed that an equality will be guarded where possible. It is a great deal of agreement to perform limited services to individuals according to this bill that requires daily mechanical treatment and that the ears are specifically marked with money. It is primarily a matter of specialized care and nursing and a financial burden on the shoulders of a community. I urge the government to accept the vision and emphasis presented in the members of the Committee for welfare. Looking forward to the prospect of personal assistance, the principal form of the ministry for disabled persons - whether children, adults, or older ones - will be the principal form of the ministry. The expectation is that as soon as this happens, it is still called on to speed up the MPA production. A great deal of the induction and implementation of the law are regulations for the individual components of this combination and of a sensitive subject. That job is now done by the Ministry or by at least in the end-of-life. It's very important. The management committee made a significant point of following that job, examining at all levels the content and content of the regulations, and checking with the representatives of the user. My opinion was successful. This is a huge service, and part of it is an expense. It is a normal and part of social service that is generally at peace. This is a cooperation project by both the state and the community, so both governments are under great pressure, that they do what they want. One of these is cost - changing, and we trust that this will be a complete agreement and will not delay development in this vital field. Madam President. I'm not going to be long words. I just want to thank the members of the committee for the good cooperation they have in preparing both these bills and the number of government officials and stakeholders that the committee has cooperated with. This has been a process of learning and developing, and it has been a process of harmony. On this occasion I would also like to thank the members of the committee, the members of the council now serving as members of the council, and the former persons who have been cleared by the case, prepared in early stages, and made it possible for us to stand here today with a full bill, that we believe, as we hope, that we may become the law of October 1. and come to action for the sake of a number of our fellow citizens across the country in the fall of a coming country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u29	Madam President. I'm just gonna come in on this one. When it was made up last, I sat above the 1st. and the concerns and other aspects of it that were described and as a result of the satisfaction of bringing this provision into law. It is a pleasure to hear how positive the discussion is, and people seem to be very strict in this issue on the committee, and of course more of the nature of the matter. Who should oppose the efforts of disabled ones to receive better service? It seems to me, when I cross the committee's opinion and after listening to members of Congress, that most of the most important tips that were also made in the past. At least I'd like to take a look at it. ... wellbeneficial. There are several factors, including. the differences on the basis of age, which I think are very important. It should not matter at what age you are disabled or become at some point in your life, and it should be amazing that such a law has been made in the matter. But it's a good thing to be handled. Same with the employees, i.e. those who accept being assistants. I feel like this is trying to get my arm around it, like a dog. Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson was very well - versed. Of course, it matters, and these are anxieties that have occurred before, both in the past and in the setting of the matter. It is very important that people who accept this practice enjoy good employment even if they are not always in their homes, of course, there are other places. But the person buying the service guarantees his rights and equipment, or an employee, depending on the individual's situation. A recruitment relationship is referred to. The job contract description must be clear. It has been noted that the services vary from one country to another. That's why I think it's very important that there's agreement between the local community, that the terms of the management and rights are established, whether in the Regulation or in the way, that it is at least. Clear and with a minimum value. Hv. In answer to the fact that the work should be carried out on all job rights. It's very important. Another factor I'm interested in is the definition of private functioning, i.e. that you cannot benefit from accepting such a ministry. I think it's very important that it's not possible. Actually, it is only to be expected, if that is the case. It's being sharpened in the process of making changes. That's fine. Only about the children. Because we've talked about terms before, I agree with what the committee has concluded, that they contain amazing things. For example. is spoken of inside all creations. The following are aspects in children with multiple impairments and in children with severe mental and mental disorders. It is important not to put it in the same hat, since it is, of course, a different problem and a smaller group with many problems, which are more favorable. That was one of the things I liked to see. Then I'd like to talk about the concerns of the Union of Iceland. That's certainly something we've run into over the years. Those of us who have been serving in a rural government cannot deny that the money given by the state has not always been enough. While here it is decided to increase the criteria, not as the relationship requested, from 25% to 30%, but to reevaluate it and see what it's like, which is good. That the exchange will be passed over for two years. It is important when we make these contracts, and our rural society has to take part in some way, that we set aside a fixed period of review for what has come to be real experience. I didn't mean to extend the discussion. But I'm very happy, like the others here who have spoken, with the matter coming to this place. I don't think it's been postponed. I think it's been postponed for a great deal of good. I believe that many things have happened and that the discussion has developed and that the matter is far better now than it would have been if it had been less baptized when it was last proposed. I generally think people are more enlightened and approach them in a good way, much more than the last time. I forgot to say something about the employees, i.e. those who take part in supporting people in NPA services. This is about education and the ability of the staff to gain increased rights. This is one of the things that should strengthen such a work environment, strengthens the relationship between employers and those who serve. I think it's more likely that people stay longer, because this can be a lot of stress. We know this from such service, so it is an important factor. I agree with what's been said here. The case's in shape, it'll be revised in two years. It's not just that people might have a new life, freedom, independence, more active and more active. The issue is that people have the best choices they have, as well as opportunities for more community involvement. I think that's the big point in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u30	Madam President. At the end of this discussion, I want to take advantage of the opportunity to thank you. Council members who have participated in the discussion, for the fine suggestions and talks here. Many of the issues have been addressed in the past. The committee discussed, such as groups of consultation, as a matter of course. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristjánsson mentioned and also introduced him to the SIS assessment in his speech. We all have a measure of concern about the value of money and the rightness of the expense change, as many members of the council have made. Therefore, it is so important that the review will be in the way the committee suggests. It is also important that you have been shown to have ... ina matterwhat. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur the Year's Árnason, of course, will never be the only answer to this kind of service, NPA. Fortunately, we're leaving the ideologies of having a society where one size fits for everyone. We'd rather have a wide variety of society. It is just the thought behind this legal system that enables disabled people to share in the community in as much detailed and meaningful ways as possible, if that is a word. That's really what we're always trying to do. The nature of the matter according to the agreements of NPA, there will never be a major service form in dealing with disabled individuals and rural partners. That is why it is so important that the public ministry is the rule. The communities must do the public service of the ambition expected by the bills and ensure that everyone offers that service, for in this way we will remember the imaginary terms that we are probably many of them, in mind, between disabled individuals and others. Faithful people are just like the rest of us, with the same needs, desires, and expectations. We have to face it. This law is an important part of stressing this will of the council. V.E.G. President. I thank you for the discussion, and I can't wait to see that bill turn into a law.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u31	A respectable president. We here discuss a change in the law on housing partners, no. 346. The main concern is housing partnerships, their members, and their home estates. As noted earlier, the subject was presented at the 146th legislature of 2016-2017. It was decommissioned from a welfare committee but was not approved. Since then, slight variations in wording have been made with a view to increasing clarity. The bill was written at the Ministry of Health and was there consulted with the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, as well as with representatives of the Bustea, Bustea, and the Farmers. As indicated in the introduction, the objective of the bill is to further contribute to the sustainable management of housing partners by ensuring that the budget can choose the most benefit-effective value which they consider to be best at any given time with the company's interests in advance and taking into account the risks of financing. The bill's report puts it word for word, with the permission of the president: The word "d" is used for "d" is 1. mgr. Section 5. the legislation on housing partnerships will be changed so that housing partners will be allowed to borrow from the public market, including for financial companies as well as the Substitution Fund, as well as the support and donations provided by colleagues, as well as the funding for the publishing of bond bonds. In this way, housing partners can choose the most favorable financing, most suitable for each member's interests in advance and take into account the risks involved in financing and, in turn, further contributes to the sustainable management of such partners. This case was sent to the welfare committee of March 8 last. In its payment, the committee met with Þorvaldsson Thorddsson and Linda Fanney Island Valgeirsdóttir, and received reviews from the National Association of Iceland, Busseta, the Substitute Fund, and the National Association of older citizens. The proposed changes to d-ind 1.mg. Section 5. No. 66/2023, with subsequent changes, continue to enable housing partners to borrow from financial companies and credit institutions and to receive support and contributions from colleagues. At the same time, they are permitted to borrow on a general market and finance themselves with the release of bonds. With the agreed bill, housing partners will have more space to choose the best funding so that there is an increased chance that housing partnerships will become sustainable. It raises housing security for homeholders. In a committee program, the entire committee is on the subject. She proposes that the bill be accepted unchanged. Under the committee's opinion of publications, along with those of Halldóra Mogensen, Jónsson Ingónsson, Árnadóttir Kolbrún, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Guðjón S. Brjánsson, Ingi Iur Kristinsson, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, and Vilmiramur Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u32	Madam President. I want to express my joy with this bill and to express my support for it. The bill aims to promote sustainable housing partnerships, especially in ensuring that the budget is able to select the funding that they consider to be the most favourable and most appropriate at any given time in the interests of the carer, taking into account the risks of financing. It is very important for such companions to have a payload of means. With this, the bill aims and allows them to make more room for the financing they consider most favorable and suitable for the best, with the main interests of the people, as stated earlier. I'd like to allow me to draw special attention to the information received from the National Association of Older Citizens, who believe that the bill is a great help in housing communities. The EU makes it very important to note that housing partners are made available and allowed to obtain loans with the most favorable ideals available at a time, while reminding them of the purpose of housing partners that those who so choose the option for housing where the ideal option is to have their own farms. In this discussion, Mrs. President, I'd like to take special note of something I'd like to introduce myself to you. that for many older citizens, it may be a good option to buy a living - room partner. The older citizen's relationship suggests that the payment on the prenup will be tax free, as if on other real estate purchases. They agree that when older citizens have to solve their housing issues, they have reason to believe that the point is there that talkers can weigh young ones.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u33	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a committee party with a bill-change proposal to correct the changing of fish control laws, No. 116/2006, beach fishing. The case is presented by a professional health committee, and the committee is a professional health committee. Here at baseline are those members of the Committee meeting, i.e. the number of guests who appeared before the committee, and a number of reports were received on the subject. According to Article 6, the bill was submitted by a professional body committee. legal about the control of fishing. It is suggested that new laws be added temporarily and that there be temporary provision for the coming coastal fishing period and the terms of the bill to 31 August 2018. In 1st. The bill suggests that coastal fishing will be limited to 12 days per month for each ship during a period of coastal fishing, May to August. It is also recommended that a fishing clinic be able to stop coastal fishing if the total resources of coastal boats exceed the quantity available for fishing. In addition, clearance to ufs is recommended as a so-called VS. The primary goal of the bill is to improve the safety of small boats by ensuring a number of days for fishing each month. This aims to crop off the problems that exist in a local arrangement that is shown by sailors striving to catch homes as short as possible and to calm them down more often than in bad weather. For the Committee it was a requirement to stop fishing, and it was expressed concern that before the end of the season, the power would be lifted and the experiment would be meaningless, where the race at the same risk would appear at the same time in all areas to ensure calm days before the fish could be stopped. It was also referred to as the commission to argue that hunting for sels would not depend on them. In the opinion of the Commission, the likelihood that fishing needs to be stopped has been substantially reduced by increasing total coastal resources. In the opinion of the Committee, any additional documents are likely to ensure that in all areas fishing is possible for 12 days every month. Although limited amounts are set aside for coastal fishing, it is important to get experience in this new arrangement before it is established. The committee suggests a few adjustments to 1st paragraph. The bill. First of all, there is a word change to the 1st saying. The commission also suggests that a minister, not a Fishing Room, can stop fishing when the total number of ships exceed the amount set for coastal fishing. If a minister has to stop fishing, it is important that a careful analysis of the impact of the changes presented here suggest for the hunt and for the development of fish over the year, especially for the prospects of coastal fishing of individual areas. It is reported that in the Regulation followed by this law, a minister is not only authorized to stop fishing but also a minister's authority to increase the total hunt in accordance with 5 mg. Section 8. in May, June, July, and August. Third, it is proposed to be allowed to land without being counted as the maximum of each boat's resources or to the total number of coastal fishing to meet certain conditions. As a result of these changes, the committee feels that many of the viewpoints presented in the reviews of the matter are like worries about stopping in August. Secular equality will be protected, taking into account that over the last few years there has been a loss of resources between fishing years and the low prices available to the U.S.A. The Commission has concluded that if a successful summer succeeds, this will lead to increased safety, equality, and development of the entire coastal fishing system with increasing resources and flexibility in the selection of hunting days, with a safety objective being guided. Thus, in the summer of 2018, a 1,000 ton of unused sources will be transferred to coastal fishing as a single - change operation, but in the opinion of professionals and the national community of submarines, the sources that will be added to meet this arrangement for the summer. The reviews to the Committee have shown that the choice of fixed days can result in a better distribution of raw materials over the month, increasing the availability of fresh materials for the summer, strengthening diffused areas, and helping to increase structure and recruitment in this article. A fishing product is very important to a fish market when there is a recession on a catch from another fishing industry. More often than not, the product has been the spine in the process of making many fish equipment for the summer, and it has been a quality product. The Commission feels that after the summer's experience, a decision must be made whether to ensure that coastal fishing should always be offered first to the domestic buyers and that the raw materials will not be exported uninjured to foreign companies. It is important that this summer's coast fishing effort succeed and become a significant team for future coastal fishing and their growth. The Commission suggests that the impact of this research in coastal fishing will be assessed after the summer and the Department of Employment, with the establishment of stakeholders, by means of a report by December 1. useful for the future coastal fishing. What needs to be checked by the Committee will include how it affects fasting days in each area, the outcome of not counting on the permitted catch for each hunt, and the need for different fishing practices by land in terms of beginning and ending periods. The commission is to monitor closely how this change in coastal fishing during the summer of 2018 manages to increase the safety of sailors. The employment board will immediately evaluate how this important experiment has been accomplished and will work on further improvements in the coastal fishing system in consultation with coastal fishermen in the four areas and their interest groups prior to the summer of 2019. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following changes: We're on 1st. a. Instead of the words, sea fishing limits at 12 hunting days for each of the 1st Cables: authorizes every ship of beach fishing for 12 days. b. The 2nd topic puts it this way: The minister can, by advertising the Commission, stop the coastal fishing operation, when it is shown that the total power of coastal fishing is exceeding the quantity required for coastal fishing by the Minister's Regulation for Coastal Fishing in 2018. c. The 3rd material will be removed. This includes three new paragraphs, as follows: Each coastal fishing vessel is permitted to cross-land without the limit being counted to a maximum limit of 5 mg. Section 6. a. The unassigned resources of each beach fishing vessel's hunt are as follows: 1st Keeping the catch separated from another ship's labors, which was particularly weighed and recorded. 2. That the product is sold at an approved seafood auction and its value goes to the boil, as 3 mgr. 1st par. track No. 37/1992 for a specific price for nonstatutory marine forces, with subsequent changes, as shown by the 2nd Amendment of 3.mg. Cleared at 2 mgr. and the managers of the auction market, where the sale is given due on the value of the sold catch, shall be returned to the stated portents and expenses of the auction. At that time, the ship's fishing will receive 50% of the price of selling goods that will be divided into fishing on accordance with agreements. The secretary shall issue a regulations for the division of territories. Only a ship can be granted permission for coastal fishing compared to the area where a ship is built in place. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir met with the committee as an officer of the hearing and is accepted by it. Under these publications Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Sæland Göndand, Friðbertsson Trausti Kristjánsdóttir, Óttarsson Friní Fjordurofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofof, Sigurður Páll Jónsson and Smári Mccarthy, with advance. The backs of the Committee are tablets taken from the Department of Professional Roads. The larger and the smaller ones come from the U.S. miniboat owners. Given the catch of coastal fishing boats last summer, 48 days would come by as many boats as a strip last summer, 10,237,611 pounds, 594 boats would need. It is estimated that in some cases the estimated amount of regulations is 10,200 tons. Last summer, 9,200 tons were set to beach fishing by regulations, but in August, a prime minister, the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, replaced the system with 560 pounds [560 kg] in August, so the power went up to 9,760 tons. Now these sources are 10,200 tons. They are more valuable, since it is not contained in that number. That is an additional 300 tons of value. Besides, there are 1,000 tons of ground - to - line dissipation, so the current level is some 11,500 tons. All statistics and criteria suggest that there are adequate sources of this experiment during the summer. A minister certainly has the authority to stop hunting. The defense may not be avoided, but a minister also has permission in accordance with the regulations involved in the subsequent payment of this case, to add if there is a need for missing sources in coastal fishing so that there are 12 days per month available for all the boats that report to the sea fishing industry. I think it's very important that boats check into existing sites, that we keep the areas in this experiment. Fishing patterns vary from place to place. Although much has been said about the quality of the area A above the top of B and C, the area of B and C yields fine by the latter part of the summer, in August. There's no use for anyone to cross into area A and miss a good fishing walk in their home area in B or C. Those who work in this article well know the difference between areas of fish. That is why it is emphasized in our committee party that in the fall, fishing is to be examined in certain areas of the country and whether there is a possibility of starting in some area before and end, i.e. that there will be a period of four months to meet the views that in the south of the country and in the Gulf, there is a better catch of fish from the early summer or spring, e.g. in April. This will all be considered in the autumn following this experiment. I present this matter primarily in an effort to meet the views of the seamen's flexibility and security. I think this experiment is worth it to try to prevent a shipwreck. Of course, each captain is responsible for his own boat, whether he is small or big, and whether he is going fishing if the weather is troubled, although he may miss the train to get some catch that might be done if he doesn't charge that day. However, by reducing the rest of the Olympic motivations that are truly in the system, it is appropriate to try it out by the 12 days. A report from the University of Akureyri showed great interest in having regular days of fishing. This results in the flexibility required within each month. It is also better for fish farming and market prices, so it remains a bit in the hands of everything. Fishing plants find it helpful to distribute the raw material over the month. When the coast catch comes in mostly part of the month, others withdraw and are not hunting because they expect less from their resources, but it is very important that the raw is distributed over a month's normal market. Yet, there have certainly been criticism and anxiety. Perhaps I would not be so determined to try this in the summer as well as a number of sailors who have contacted me and have expressed interest in the fact that this experiment will be carried out unless this issue is not being discussed for the first time. It's been carefully examined. The bill of the same material was submitted in the spring of the spring, where I was a 1st transporter and other members of the left movement were offered ◯ green. In the spring of spring, the Department of Seafood was involved with the then seafaring minister of the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir in doing this experiment and was very interested in her success. Unfortunately, though, it was stopped. It's like walking in politics, people don't always agree on things. Even though we do not agree on everything, each one of us may have wanted this bill to look different, it is important that we try to achieve the best transpheric stand and have the courage to look at a beach fishing system that has been for nine years and has been successful. It is important to develop a system with a safety objective in mind and in the future, since the beach fishing has come to be and is needed in a different pattern in this country. Indeed, they have brought much life into the settlement. Without it, these seas would not be like sight. I think it is clear that people agree on those living in the coastal waters since they were put in 2009. I won't keep my case further, and I hope that there will be good progress here and there, because there aren't many days left. Coastal fishing begins May 2, and this must be in place so those intending to go fishing can register and see what kind of systems they live in for the summer. A fishing room hasn't started registration into the beach fishing system, knowing that this case is in wait for payment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u34	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Lilja Electrical Rafney Magnúsdóttir for the careful coverage and history of the Committee's opinion. One of her good points was how to evaluate the results of her efforts to make a success. Therefore, I would like to ask, " How will such changes make better security possible? ' What conversation has taken place on the grounds of the Commission's National Guard or other sailors'security bodies? Then I wanted to ask about the resources. Now there is the possibility that the additional resources available to enter the system during this experiment will all enter sector A and, if based on the same number of fishing courses that were present last year. Therefore, I would like to ask if the committee took the liberty of sharing the resources into each area and actually attach a certain object to each area so that it would be in advance of how they changed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u35	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the questions. No, we haven't been given a review from the State Hall. We asked for a review from there, but we haven't got it yet. It certainly was for discussion with her representatives for the committee, but we have not been given a review of the case. The article itself has repeatedly shown that in the case of the Olympic fishing industry, the safety of sailors is dependent so that it has been in the sea fishing discussion, in fact, from the beginning. In terms of the areas, they are certainly different, not just in the matter of fishing, but in different areas. Area A had 228 licenses last year, B 136, C 129 and D 111. Of course, there is nothing to see what this will be like when a man has a choice of days, when a good catcher is more likely to reach his full dose. In areas that may have been gaining more days, and even for the whole month, nothing has necessarily been calmed every day, 16 days, but the amount has not run out within a month. Of course, no one can foresee the degree of calmness or the number of the boats or the weather. It will always be the weather, the fishing system, and the sailor himself, the pleasure of it, the quantity of it, and the number of rowers within each month. It'll always be what's in charge in the end. But the suggestion is that everyone sits at the same table, having 12 days of flexibility within each month, bearing in mind that each area can use a good day to get the most out of calm. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u36	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. Yet, I felt that I could not find the answer to whether the committee had discussed the possibility of binding labor documents to areas. In fact, I think it is likely that if it was done and perhaps likely to make peace with this experiment, it is more likely to ensure even more security, since it is very likely that the committee's comments are not completely satisfied about going this way. So I'd like to reiterate the question, has this been discussed in the basement? And as I would like to encourage the committee to have a conversation with the National Guard on the security show.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u37	Of course, the situation was arranged so that a specific volume was being placed in each chamber. Since everyone should sit at the same table and have 12 days, it should not be important to have the volumes in each chamber because it is not stopping in each chamber the same space as it is today when the volume is running out. The fundamental thought of sustainability behind the experiment is that the quantity we have from playing enough for this experiment, if it is meant to be significant. The Ministry has talked about an 80% chance that the amount we have today, but really don't know what would happen when the summer falls free enough for this experiment. According to the Ministry's answer to a question raised by Deputy General Bjarni Jónsson VG, 48 days per boat would be about 10,300 tons. [[The president calls.]] We're talking about 11,500 trapped in your hand.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u38	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator on this matter. I'd like to ask about the path we are here on to the fundamental problems of this system as we know from the past in a parish system is that it promotes an Olympic fishing. It is only the fundamental nature of the parish system that it promotes the Olympics, encourages a race to gain a catch until it is turned off for the hunters. We were not particularly successful in managing it in the past when it was our main fishing system, in fact, quite tragic, with a very poor fishing supply at that time, during the time of the eating process, with a much more reasonable, more economic advantage in the fishing industry. In fact, we see these same symptoms in the coastal seas. There seems to be no result of this hunting. It is more and less lost, and it has also been criticized that both the use and the quality of the labor are considerably inferior than in other parts of the fishing system. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, for I don't really get my arms around it, how this change is going to stop the race that's always in the parish. While the number of boats is sure to be ensuring a number of days, it seems, at the same time, that there is a fairly clear promise that if these fish are fast, there might be an increase in power. It further promotes the benefits of trying to catch as fast as possible and even that individual areas can actually take on parts of other areas if they are successful in fishing there. Therefore, I don't see how this change should lead to reducing the tendency to Olympic fish and thus securing the safety of sailors. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u39	A respectable president. Of course, having this flexibility and total resources per day for coastal fishing limits what can be taken in each swing, with over 650 pounds [650 kg] in cunning. Of course, men who have the option to choose 12 days within the month are more calm than others if it were over their heads that the amount intended for each compartment may be lived after some X days. Of course, it will calm all those who are on the beach, even though each one, as I said earlier, must bear responsibility for themselves when standing up like a seaman's head. I believe this arrangement will calm the men. We have one pot, and there's nothing in this compound that's put in this chamber or that other compartment or whatever it is, there's nothing to take away from each other. For coastal fishing, there is an estimated quantity. This can be increased if there are no sources in the system at the end of the summer. Coastal fishing is the only system within 5.3% of the system that can use a ruined catch, it's only very good, because otherwise it would burn inside. Coastal fishing has shown that the boats are bringing really good raw materials to shore. The other is the marsh that has remained. In the first two years, this may not have been good enough, but today everyone agrees that this is an excellent raw product that is being obtained, fresh, fished for hooks, and highly sought for foreign sales, and is rapidly flying even directly into the market within a short period of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u40	Mr. President. I can't say anything else but that I'm not convinced that this will be necessary to address the problems that are being described here, but it must, of course, be revealed. Secondly, I'd like to ask who. A senator on the Habitat Control, but I feel that the sounds, both the committee opinion and the regulations set in motion, are being slided down by the control of the fish on the potential total resources and are being given certain boundaries that can create considerable pressure for the increased resources into the system. I wondered: " Was the Commission not worried that it was actually getting a little out of control with the fishing regime?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u41	Mr. President. I'm not worried that the resources available within 5.3% of the share are being released. In recent years, there have been many changes in the fishing industry and have become a recession because of the migrating of land conditions. A system like this is always alive and must be revised. This has been revised recently as to specific local groundrooms that have been very useful. I have been on a professional committee or on a fishing committee from the beginning, since I entered a council. We've been talking about reevaluating how these sources within 5.3% of their share are most useful for their communities, communities, and innovation. I believe coastal fishing is part of the puzzle that is very supportive of something else that is in that system and that is not taking away from anything else.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u42	A respectable president. I thank you for this bill, which is designed to increase the security of coastal fishing, and certainly not unnecessary. But I still have some comments on the bill. I see many problems in it, and in short, I'll talk about them and ask about them. Well, first of all, it looks like -- what. paritaprevir If I'm wrong, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir will correct me - that, based on the planned fishing of beach boats in the coming summer, the hunt is actually being reduced in the whole area, except for a region of A. Based on the table in the package, the catchers in the B area are being reduced by 240 tons, 360 tons C and 330 tons of D. The increase only occurs in area A of 1,390 tons if I have calculated correctly. Who is this bill, then, if there's a reduction in fishing in all but one areas? You're just gimming area A? I'm just asking. It's just that you can't make it to sea, e.g. with the south coast, on the Hornfjord, in the Western Islands, or in Grindavík as often as on the west coast; for the open ocean, especially during the early summer season. It takes a lot more days, a lot more tests, and less fishing in those areas than it does in the area A. The increase is just there in the area of A. Hv. A senator would correct me if I had a misunderstanding. I'd like to ask you another question: If you say goodbye, like others do. Senators have come in, finished in July, let's say, at the end of the day. A senator expects a minister to add to it so that he can be caught in August?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u43	Mr. President. I explained that the expected catch in coastal fishing is very rife in all calculations; considering how many boats have been involved in coastal fishing and the quantity of fishing. We are in that area well within all security limits, and a minister certainly has the authority to add if available resources are available in the system, if necessary. Regarding all resources moving in area A: There have been few days, less days than in other areas. The areas vary from one to another in the use of fish. It has naturally been dissatisfaction that there are many days, but the amount that goes into each area is not in itself a sacred number that has just been invented somewhere as the one and true truth. Of course, people have been arguing about it with one another. By ensuring all 12 days anywhere in the country and thus making coastal fishing flexible and safe, we are looking forward to equality. As I have mentioned, every day every boat, regardless of its location, is attacked by the weather for 12 days every month; it will be the change that matters because there is not any amount that goes on a boat for each boat, it is not a greeting. This will always affect the course of locality. Soils have been burning in zones like D zones. Other areas have only passed. But I think it's a really good experiment, and fishermen in all of these areas have said that if 48 days are there, they're very happy that this will be done in that way. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u44	The president asks why. Councilmen respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u45	A respectable president. Hv. A senator answers that there are fewer days in area A and that they need to be increased. That's exactly what this bill is doing, it's increasing the number of days in section A. Why? Because they're hunting the most, and most of them's boats, they're done with the quanan sooner. They are moving more days so that they can provide more, more harvests. That's exactly what they're doing in this bill. It's fine if it's revealed. Mr. President. I'm very unhappy with many things on this bill, and I'm very unhappy about it. I'm afraid for the other areas and, of course, the area where my clients are, in the South, that this dinner is over in July. I challenge it. A senator to see if there are no peaks, as more members of the council have now said, in the territory, so that more areas can be closed if a particular greeting is introduced, so that this does not occur as I have to mention.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u46	Mr. President. I don't think it's any concern that the quantity that's there is not suitable. Nor should a person paint the demon on the wall of that material and frighten fishermen in those areas, since this will happen. We have the entire data below control and to show that there is an 80% chance that this will be sufficient. In addition, the estimated quantity of coastal fishing is more valuable because of its lack of disposal, which is taken out of the volume of each day. But the fact that there are more boats in the area than there are others--it's a business, and each one decides if he's going to sea attendance, if he's gonna make out a beach fishing boat. No one forbids, or encourages, one or the other to make a boat by land, that is, the sailors must make their own decision. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] - The pot's all alone, it's for everyone, and everyone gets 12 days.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u47	Mr. President. Now it may be good to start by mentioning that the beach fishing system is a very successful system. It is of utmost importance for us to develop it for the benefit of coastal fishermen and the rest of the country. There are people who want to hurt this system, but I think most people see the benefits of maintaining it and strengthening it. The beach fishing system is at the same time a system that depends on all too many conditions and rules. If the entire sea route depended on such high standards as the coastal fishing, it would likely be less powerful. The future development of coastal fishing must be based on going toward greater freedom in all things. The experiment that is talking about doing here - many have called this experiment - is, in some respects, a step toward an application calendar system that has been requested by stakeholders. This makes it a good step because it seems to harmonize with what people are asking for. This may not be enough, I'm going to go through it a little. When we are considering such changes, we need to examine all the interests that exist, and we need to answer some basic questions. First, are your goals good and your goals progressive? Is this going to cause any harm? Can you better achieve your objective by using a different approach? In this coastal fishing bill, my opinion was that the aims were good, to increase safety, and to look out for, to reduce risks as far as possible. It's just fine. But we need to consider how our goals harmonize with political realities. When the bill appeared, I didn't feel like reaching my goals. It may be nice to say that I don't think this is an Olympic sport, although it was called the Olympic in many respects. However, there is an effort to make a record today, and the weather is often taking place and endangering itself. Instead of achieving this goal, it seemed mainly to have the effect of strengthening the level of area A over other areas, that was completely unacceptable. My assistant, who came in for a few weeks, Eymarsdóttir, the daughter of Eymar, struggled very hard to get this fixed. I want to thank her for taking care of this case very much in my absence. I came back to the country yesterday morning and I've been watching this from a distance. It's hard to settle into such a complicated matter, but I think the results will be fine. But let's go over it. Critics of the bill have been successful in changing. During the treatment of the committee, there were excellent suggestions and criticism. Changes were made in the opinion of the committee. I took them on notice, because the changes are good, but they're covered because they're not good enough. At the time of committee review, it was apparent that the criticism of society of small - boat owners and others had been dealt with by changes that seemed acceptable to the interests of the stakeholders and to the main stakeholders. It was also clear that there is no political interest in considering further improvement at this point, but hopefully we can still move it a little further. But the interaction of these facts may mean little to bark and shame. I'll try to reason that we can accomplish a little more steps, and then I hope we can take this into a professional committee between 2 and 3. And I will make the things that are lacking, that they may be good. As we examine whether our goals will be reached, we will see whether conditions for the race are still there. Just checking the overall system isn't enough. We need to examine each area in the light of the circumstances that exist in each area. The insurance for 12 days is clearly enough for the area A under the present circumstances, which benefits most from the increase it produces. But since the big increase has been criticized, I have to mention that I've only gone over the statistics of how much fishing is going to be done for every ship. It has to be said at the moment that the fishing for ships in area A has been reduced because the days have been fewer; there's been a cut on a much earlier field of A because many ships are about a relatively small pot there. So, it is totally demeaning and logical to make the most of it. It appears that area B and C, from given experience and the statistics we have, will result in a very similar conclusion, but perhaps there is a slightly greater guarantee of certain things. The additional rule of not including in the high-peats will result in increasing the benefit levels for people in B and C areas, such as this, I think, well beyond region B and C, as well. In contrast, the region D seems to be having minor damage to this system. How much is the big question? It is very likely that it will be damaged and that it will become ◯likely to be important, since statistics indicate that the damage is not safe but only more likely than in some cases. It will be not necessarily for all who work in the area, especially for the boats that have been bringing less of the fish into the country, but more for the boats who have been bringing most into the country in recent years. This is explained by a change in weather conditions in region D, and it has been found to be difficult to achieve a lot of resources. As a result, boats in region D often have a significantly higher attendance or use of more days. I've got this around here somewhere. The 2010 area D has had an average of 54 parish days in comparison to the area A, which has been about 30. So it's a harder area. Certainly, more boats will disappear to the climax. It also seems that in region D, there will be leftovers of available resources. The statistics also show that this has been the case in recent years. In turn, some boats, and especially those who have been returning less catch before, will get more than before by these changes, so that it outweighs this. I think the rule is to have a most positive effect on the region of D, but its size is difficult to assess in advance. We do not know exactly what the effect is, so we cannot allow the U.S. rule to weigh very seriously in the evaluation whether this is harmful. The positive side effect is that the utilation rule reduces the tendency to flip-off. This is fine from environmental considerations and is generally able to increase the value, because there are more codhouses that come in and even more cod. Now it's a big suspicion to stop the law, that a minister but no longer a Fish Room according to the modification proposal can stop hunting if the market is running out. A minister does not, according to the law, have the right to stop fishing on his own rights. Rather, he would have to provide some kind of support. However, a transfer from Fish Room to Ministers yields a political responsibility for stopping. I hope that such responsibility and related anger, which will, of course, follow this, will help to reduce the risk of stopping unless absolutely necessary. It is also good to note that because of the way the fish process is and what weather conditions are, the area D is usually later in the season than in other areas. True, Area B has a similar tendency. So it is most likely that there will be an impact on the region of D. The addition of a thousand tons, which is an application from a citation that has already been promised to come, along with the U.S. rule, should be met under those circumstances. The statistics also show that this should cover most of the missing items. So there are some things that have been accomplished through changes that I calm down about. I believe, from what is available, that area A, B, and C will come out well from these changes and that to those areas the bill will achieve its aim. I'm not convinced that area D will not be harmed. But because I'm a little down in this statistical analysis, I'd like some sort of statistical assessment, or what would be the most likely damage. From the numbers that I have, which may not be complete, I think it's the most 15%, both in the quantity and number of hunting days, and that's out of the most exaggerated cases. So it should be good for most people. But this is too much damage. Therefore, we may have to try to find ways to improve the situation further. So I'm going to say a little bit more about the Apology: It's coming into this as a very unpredictable request. It cannot be predicted exactly how much it will bring. The numbers I've heard are between 300 tons and 700 tons, maybe that'll be more because it's now creating a different economic motivation as well. Of course, this is also limited by what the ships can handle and how much ulfs are found. But this could be enough to eliminate all the risks as well as to help reduce the likelihood that people are going to the bridge, moving under the mountains, some sea helicopters, and something of little value. So that's fine. To try to undo the possible damage done, I suggested that maybe two changes could be made. One would be that a minister would have the authority to increase the number of days in certain areas in case of appearance. That suggestion has not been given a sound foundation. The suggestion is that the closing authority be changed so that a minister could temporarily close individual areas on an equal basis, i.e. If any area had been walked on the pot so that other areas would be looked like nothing a minister could recover it by hand management. This is more intervention than I would generally suggest, but on the other hand, this is a somewhat strange system and perhaps reason to revise the pots themselves at some point; perhaps, as many have suggested, that there will be some kind of climax or perhaps some foundation. This can be done in various ways. I hope that the political desire will be to take that discussion and try to find a balance between areas, or even cut off, the regional system with everything that is a different approach. As I say, this is not a perfect solution, but it is a form of emergency, as is the law of stopping. I think this would be enough to eliminate all the risks that exist against D. I hope this should be checked better between 2 and 3. Actually, it's just a matter of adding words, based on the change here. It says: With an advertisement in the Management News, a beach fishing service would need to be added in individual territories. I don't think that's the big thing that should cause a lot of anxiety. I agreed with the Commission on the notice that we can do better. I believe that the bill with the changes to the Committee will achieve most goals, not all of them. If we can do a little better between the 2nd and 3rd. Everyone should feel at peace. I know of an amazing number of e-mails I've received from beach fishermen, Facebook messages and stuff, that there are many people who are very worried about these changes. Actually, my first tendency is to try to fight to the last drop of blood in order to achieve as much freedom as possible. But it turns out that this bill is presented to achieve very specific goals. I understand those goals. I agree with those goals. Even if we're not solving the whole problem now, hopefully we'll do it even in the fall. I hope that it will be supported. It's been called an experiment. Such experiments prove to be beneficial. This, of course, is an experiment where people's survival is at stake. It is people who rely on this beach fishing just to have time and energy. So it's absolutely necessary that we try. This is a time pressure in view of the beginning of the Coastal Fishing season. We move a little further on that basis, but we must not allow that to be a reasonable reason not to look at all the suggestions that are presented and allow us to have the discussion as detailed as possible. We can work late at night if necessary. We do not want to do anything for ourselves, as did the sailors themselves. What is suggested seems to improve most of the time. I emphasize that there is a risk. It is not certain that this will work. There are suggestions from me and maybe from others on how to minimize the risk. If the bill is a law without such changes, the results will be determined by the results. Happily, this is done experimentally for one year. If things go wrong, we'll have the next year to reconsider. If we don't reach a better conclusion, we're going to at least 2019 into the same system now. It's always possible that the risks don't work out, and that's usually what happens in real life. We're never supposed to bets with survivors if they can be avoided, but this is, I think, a good try. We can do better, but this is a step that's nice to take. Of course, with the advance notice, the likelihood of damage in region D has to be further reduced. Let's take a look at the statistics. Work harder, but let's take this step and then take some more steps.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u48	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you what. A senator's point of view is that what he said here, because I felt that it was only vague what he was going to do. Hv. In his speech, a senator said that a minister would be responsible for political responsibility, and this would reduce the risk of stopping the fish unless there was much pressure. I'd like to ask him a little bit about the definition of what is meant when it comes to the urgency of the matter, that a minister should be allowed to stop the hunters. I'll take an example. Let's just say this works out in a way that by July / August, all resources will be obtained, i.e. The 11,200 tons you have under here, the ups. What, then, should be done in terms of what should be done. A senator? In my mind, it is somewhat unclear what is meant by closing authority in certain areas. That would be an emergency, like a dog. A senator called it that way. This would be the benefit of people, and we should not be betting with people's goods. I can agree with that. But what is the limit? When should the Minister, considering? A senator with ideas of change proposals, making a decision to close areas to allow D's region to catch the rest of the pool? To what extent should this be applied?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u49	Mr. President. I think it's quite clear, or that's what I hope to do, to that well. A senator and a former minister understand the political responsibility of being a minister. A fish lab can e.g. unable to transfer data from systems; it does not have the authority to shift from linefall to shore fishing to increase. So the only alternative that a Fish Room would have would come as a dog. An example was given by a senator about a month's July/August, who had no alternative to stopping. But Minister always has more options. A minister can move through the systems, can build up other solutions, and might even decide that, in view of statistics from the Habitat or others, an increase was simply above 5.3% in order. I don't know exactly how it would work legal, but it's clear that a minister has considerable authority. For closure measures in individual areas. Again, I don't know how to explain more clearly that certain areas could be closed, I don't know how to explain it better. But what a good question that would be! I accept entirely that criticism because, as I said in my speech, this is not a perfect suggestion at all. This is even an imperfect suggestion. But this is the best thing I could come along with, given the speed we're working on. That's why I'm asking that we slow down a little bit and we win better. I'm sure there's a better solution than this. But the idea of how this would be changed would be made in accordance with the rules of equality and the interests that exist because the people of all areas should certainly have equal opportunities to use the resources we're talking about. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u50	A respectable president. I'm not sure that the people whose lives depend on this matter, like hell. A senator put it, wants to have a bet with his living bread. I don't think there was much evidence to show what the senator was saying to this unexplained and vague proposal. It is not good to offer vague and unattracted suggestions when it comes to the survival of people and to make a bet of such delicate things. I am quite aware that the highest political responsibility. Minister's a lot. Hv. A senator said that a minister has a means of adding. That is, given that there is something in this 5.3% pot. There are precedents for this last year when it is the highest. At that time, a minister in the Ministry added 500 and some tons, if I recall correctly, to what was then available. Today, 1,000 tons have been taken in advance of what is not expected to be used for, and distributed. So at the end of a year of fishing, the stage for this fishing has probably been set so as to engage in some further training on that subject. I think it's possible to claim that a minister is a very narrow cut, at least for further steps. If this were to make the vague way in the uncertainty of the whole matter, that provide sources would be relatively early in the period, when there might be one fourth left or something else, e.g. when August was left, I'd have a good time. A senator does not worry that there would be a cut off from the areas and from those who try to do this fishing all summer? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u51	Mr. President. First of all, it's wrong. The 1,000 tons have been determined in advance by a senator. The order's not here yet. But it has certainly been said that she is coming. There's nothing for us to be based on but statistics. The statistics are pretty clear because we're just talking about a number of boats, fixed tons, set a number of parish days, set a high peak in the catch a day. I think it's all the variables that matter, plus the weather, of course. Of course, from that point on, a thousand boats could suddenly be added, but that requires money. That's not gonna happen in real life. We can make some fantasy that something like that happens, but we're talking about reality. I've been talking for 20 minutes about us trying to protect people's survival. Here is a suggestion that will be discussed better with the committee, which is not yet completed and was actually a very limited desire to discuss fully the committee yet, but it has been accepted as positive in discussing it between 2 and 3. That's why it's rather strange to me that I'm trying to identify myself as a threat to the survival of people. On the contrary. The most important point in this matter is to make sure that those who are involved in this fishing can walk for a measure of security. The safety is that everyone has a good and equal chance to go to the sea, that they can do so in a safe environment, that they are not going to the sea, and that there is an equal figure between those who are fishing, no matter where they are in the country. This is not fully ensured by the current proposal. I don't think we're far from making sure of that, but we stick to reality. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u52	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to say a thing much, but they came in on it, but. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy and what. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, who I was thinking about. When we had guests on a professional committee, sailors came from the area where the senator was concerned about, region D, and said that he was happy and that if 12 days were safe, they would agree on this change. But I wondered: Is the senator suggesting that the minister have the authority to stop fishing in other areas so that the region of D can truly complete its 12 days? I don't feel too good about it anyway. I believe that what's in the bill and we've been discussing enough, based on the criteria that have been calculated. I'm sure that all those 48 days of each boat around the country will never be complete. Maybe I'll take a big one when I say it, but it'd be good if the Senator would only better expound what he meant by this suggestion and how he put it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u53	Mr. President. Perhaps I correctly stated that this suggestion was actually an attempt to make sure that everyone gets normal and as much from the reality that the area is being applied at different times. It's mainly in B and D areas that you might be in for later, it makes that there are cases where certain inflexibility could be maintained. On the other hand, my suggestion may involve a firm criticism of the arrangement for fishing to be stopped at a different level. I don't object to the existence of an emergency inhibitor in the system, but this has to do with the political responsibility I talked about earlier. Maybe it's a different proposal for me. I'm totally willing to accept that. Yet, we must be able to do better. Granted, it is rather boring if all 12 days have been promised, and then there is a stop that will not be achieved. But my thinking was not necessarily that those 12 days would be, but that it would somehow be equal, people in certain areas asked to wait. Maybe that's also unfair. Maybe it was a wrong, ridiculous suggestion. I'll accept that possibility. All I'm asking for is that we'll talk more about this, that we'll try to find some good way to make sure all the areas get the most. And, of course, there is the answer that a minister will add to the pots if, in such cases, not everyone gets everything they are promised for today because, of course, it would be abstinent if all areas were to be replaced, except for 12 days because of the ban.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u54	V.E.G. President. I know why. A senator is well - meaning, and I'm not worried about anything else, so at the beginning of his speech, the senator said that he was in agreement with the experiment. We will take a closer look at this under the Commission between the 2nd and the 3rd. I've said so, and now I'm going to come up in a speech after, and we'll talk more about this, that in a perfect world I wouldn't have liked this, but I think this experiment is worth it. I think this is a step in the right direction. And because it's going to apply only this summer and it's going to be considered in the fall, I agree with it. Perhaps later, I'll arrange it better when I come here for a talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u55	Mr. President. Well, I think, fortunately, everyone's a good listener in this case. This system is designed to be improved so that everyone will benefit. It is, of course, that there is a political dispute over whether or not things are going to improve the situation, and my concern reflects strongly that it is finally a natural concern about each member's convictions as to whether the change will result in the desired result. I feel like I'm still saying some concerns and I want to look for a solution to how we can do this a little better. When you look at the statistics, it's very interesting to see how much boats are returning, especially boats in area A, the best boats are usually returning some 26 tons to 29 while in the region of D perhaps the best - bearing boats. This reflects both how many boats are in each area and how they compete for these resources, but also a little bit how the days have been. When you look at the average year in area D, you can see that there are more days, more days, more time, and more money, even though propaganda is heavier at the end of the day. The hope is, of course, that this will result in good results for all. I'm worried they'll cut the fishing at the wrong time, especially to those who fish a little late in the season.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u56	A respectable president. Here is the discussion of the so - called Coastal Fishing Network, provided by the Employment Committee, and signed by everyone. True, much has been discussed here, pointing out and criticism at this bill, but we have not been directly critical of the 2009 arrangement. This is the tenth summer we're entering with this experiment that I think has given us a measure of opportunity and is a real subversive resort when we speak both fragile and fragile. This has been the case with regional discrepancies and that this bill is somehow in the process of correcting it. True, we can admit that there are differences between areas of the present system, current laws, perhaps in different ways. Some point out like a whale. paritaprevir Hjaltason Gautiça and criticize the fact that the bill is only presented to protect the interests of those in the area A. I think it's something special, since I'm actually from that region and I'm quite aware of how this has affected these settlements. Furthermore, when it comes to it, I'm kind of in the middle of nowhere. A senator points out that it is so good to be on the shores of the West to hunt. I don't think the boats that have been on the beach have anything to do with the beach, they're out on the streets. Well, if the oracles have become the quietest fish in the world, then at least I don't recognize them. This can be a difficult area. I know it well because from where I come from, in Bolungarvík, there have been up to 30 boats at the docks that have been in this system. In the first few days of the summer, you have sometimes been a little terrified of watching these little shells go out in any weather to try to get some catch, it's gone down for four days. We have had examples of sailors who might fail, and they will never reach sea level, since their power has been completed. It's always been stopped in the area of A, always, because the boats have crossed the volume. I think there's something wrong with the criticism that has been presented. Some say it should take this extra we're getting, these 1,500 tons, and move to area A to level this difference. But then comes the criticism that in this system that is being proposed to change now, the boats will come to pile all over the A-field because there is the greatest chance of getting the fish into the boats and ashore. I think this is a conflict. If this additional power was to be placed in the area A, what would happen? I think more boats would go to that area, and then the race will begin even more so, so I can't see that it will change anything. Indeed, fear of change is. I don't think it's anything unusual. Here we're talking about the survival of people, and you're always a little skempt at all changes, and you're worried, that's understandable. I think it was a whisk. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, who said that there might be more boats in the system. I don't think that's going to increase the number of them. A job situation is generally good in the country, so people do not leave their job safely. We watched it a few years ago that this was tested by a number of people who may have been out of work, who still had boats or didn't have boats. Then, historically speaking, fishing prices are at a minimum. I don't think anybody goes into this to make some money, I don't think there's any chance that people are really focusing on. This has been about the statistics we've been considering back and forth, and statistics show that there is an 80% chance that this will be effective. Of course it's a question of whether this is enough, perhaps especially in the D-space, but there's nothing everywhere certain that all boats used all their days there. I got one, for example. ... nowfromAclinai. There had been no boat last year over 45 days in the season and there are natural differences in their calmness, but surely this bill does not guarantee 12 days all these months. I think we need to be careful not to present this as such. When this climax is reached, a minister has the power to stop fishing. We can't ever, and we don't have any data or anything like that to figure out what the weather will be like, I think it's a lot more in there, and that's much more than a minister. So we have to watch out for that a little bit, we can't guarantee it. We can't talk about it like that. Of course, there must always be some end of this hunt. It is not possible to allow it entirely. This change is worth the experiment. If we get together in the fall of both numbers and how this has worked out, we'll be able to put your finger on whether this has guaranteed security, regardless of how it will be done, I'm not going to give any professional tips on how to do it, but I'm thinking that the Landland Guard could totally get to them. But as it looks now, it's said that there's a great chance that the experiment will succeed, and the amount is sufficient, and I think it's extremely relevant to safety. We've seen little boats go out in any weather, they often go up by shore or near shores, and they're coming up with a poor catch inland, instead of allowing them to get out in these days and spread them a little bit better over the month, and then they can ensure a good catch. I don't think there's any debate over the fact that the remainder of the coastal seas is very particular and desirable. I don't think we're arguing about it. I think that's where I was thinking. But so complete, I think it's worth the experiment. A minister has the authority to stop the fishing when the limit is reached. The question is, Should we consider this suggestion from the source? paritaprevir A Smári Mccartney - no, now I said that again, he forgives me, I guess I did this sometime the other day. It is also positive that the cast is removed and it is important to the D-site. Then we're preventing evasion and increasing this potential, I think some experts have said that it's about 300 tons that really matter, and it's mostly in D-space, I understand. There's nothing else I think I want to name, but I repeat that I think this experiment is worth it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u57	Madam President. Two o'clock. is now a bill to correct the changing of fish rule laws, No. 116/2006. This has been a valuable and upbuilding discussion today. This section of the law is often called the beach fishing bill or the beach fishing. It's my opinion that a pleasant step we're reaching, although it's a different opinion. That is most likely true of those who are in charge of fish fishing in Iceland, the powerful forces that are primarily used by the nation's resources for perfunctory purposes, in case of a fee. These people keep silent when they are well. When they are well, they rejoice. They howl, and howl, and weep at the shoulder of every one that heareth, and many more; when he gives up the boat in the economy. Reasonableness and justice are far away from us, or the thought that we all have a fair way of dealing with this community's affairs with a natural share and with the income of this common resource to our land and sea. There is no doubt that the Conspiracy has spoken for much more radical and more reasonable changes in the legal environment that attracts the control of fishing, so we will continue. They are justice, and they are moral issues, as well as social economic issues. We suggest good ways to break out of the present system. I'll let me remind you of your bill. paritaprevir A daughter of Oddný Harðardóttir, who has been given an invitation to the Synod of the Council for the last year of fishing and has been brought to portents on silver pans, as in the first day, with no reward. For the rest of the town, let's stop talking about the change in hope, the deportation of the nation, the collapse of the nation, the fixture of a car, urban demolition to become a reality of mishauling, and the end of Iceland, instability, and chaos. The spinsters cry out in the public squares: Is this what the people want? No, it's not an offer, and it's not a decent enlightened person. Coastal fishing has been an important factor in meeting the views of those who feel the need for changes in the fishing system in order to ensure a rich share in the fishing work. Coastal fishing has allowed life in sealands all around the country. That is a special reason for rejoicing. But this alone is not enough, but it is a small, good stage. All the measures larger and small, which depend on releasing the grave that the nation enjoys on the use of the resource are of the good. This system, despite its constant effort for informed discussion and change, has been affected by social failures. But the change will come, slowly coming. It would be a good thing for the most powerful forces to take the lead in this, taking the initiative. Until later, we will have a new constitution, the nation will call for it, and it will take away all doubt. The powerful forces do not yield, and this is not to be expected, the interests are great, the material interests are great. One of the main objectives of the already existing bill is to increase the security of coastal fishermen and to see that this aim is maintained. Whether a state of justice between hunting sites and coastal fishing periods is considered and whether this could have negative consequences for individual areas. These factors have been watched, and there is reason to deny that this is an experiment that will be reviewed immediately in the fall. Indeed, the dominant elements of the system see ahead of the very few tons that are set aside for coastal fishing. They're sorry. They fear that this new bill will lead to an increase in these fishing events. It's just as likely, but it's not gonna ride fish plants on Iceland's shores. Madam President. I'm celebrating this bill. I strongly support it, and wish it to the beach fishermen and the inhabitants of the sea for a joyous summer and a fine catch.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u58	V.E.G. President. We're here to discuss the management of fishing, a so-called beach fishing bill. Hv. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Jr., recommended a panel of committees from a professional health committee on which he is currently on. As I said in the other room earlier, in a perfect world, I would not have liked this. I would've liked to win the bill better, and take a bait off. But the time between the time that these things happened to the committee and until now, and the beginning of the beach fishing next week, is a novice. This is made up of a preliminary summer, a review in the fall that led me to participate in this and to the case. That is also what much has been said about, i.e. This safety factor and the ability to produce each boat has 12 days per month for four months. It enables humans to control their calms so that they are not suffering bad weather. Similarly, the remainder will be further distributed over the month, with a greater likelihood of improvement in markets. The supply spreads more over the month. They have one six days to say, "What a man to say, an entropy within a month." It is twelve days to catch, it is twelve days on a weekend off, and then there are six or seven days left of the month, depending on the 30 days or 31 days of the month, to warn this - excuse me not to speak Icelandic - to run, thank you. Senator, go to these rowers. [[Top of the line: Get up to run.]] The main concern is that for four months all of those 12 days remain secure. Today's speeches, as well as the work of the Committee, have shown that much more is likely to be effective because what is available is more than ever to be done in the coastal fishing system. As indicated in the opinion of the committee, the minister has a crucial objective in the matter of intervention. As a result, the flexibility is greater than if a fishroom had that issue. I'm not going to go in a lot of stitches on this. This has been done pretty well, and we're going to take it back to the Committee and discuss it a little bit better. That's the kind of thing I'm in the middle of. Also, it is taken out of parentheses. He's in his country, and he's not inside this pot, and the money for him is divided in half to create and to the government. Then the question arose, and I made it known that it was not so much as to be taken from the caste, who paid them the price of hunting. I know it's being processed, the head of the Committee is having it worked on. Hopefully, the answer, preferably tomorrow, is about who carries the weight of paying the hunting fees that are then of this cast. This is important because there is a very low price on the Úsa. That's maybe 50 to 170 kr. for now and there's some 30 bucks. to make and remember every dollar if it is taken away by the fishing fee. It may also play in with this change that it is equal to the object between slow, smaller boats, and those on the larger gorillas, who say the speedboats. As presented in the talks earlier, the small boats have often been under attack at the parish. Then they should have equal things. It's now, I've said it in previous speeches, that I didn't really like this beach fishing system at the time. I just thought there should be one system, and I've spoken to it myself. I think the saying system is the best, and I've been working on it for years. If they received the positive talk they needed to have a good life, I wouldn't worry about it. But in society it is only that it is not at peace. The talk that was before me was very direct about the fact that it was not at all acceptable to that system. But the beach fishing system is now entering the tenth summer. It's proved true. It's been shown that it's a good system. It's a system to help young men get started, and it's for those who want to have something to do, pay expenses, and earn it, it's a good system. It is also a good system for those who are quitting to sea, yet they want something to do. So this works for a lot of people, and it's also a system that works well for the scattered settlements. It has gone very well, the first few years have been violated, but it has improved much and is actually the best, and may certainly improve even more, as monitoring might be better. I've often talked about how fish markets might be prized, even in contrast with their raw materials, how well the fish are cooled, how they've been put into the toads, and so on. The substance is extremely important, and it is now a requirement for those who buy fish, that the raw materials are good. Most of the fishermen with their own fish farms are already carrying large and good equipment on their boats, which, in turn, supply better raw materials and complain a little bit about the fact that the markets are not fierce enough to follow them in their places. I encourage a market to make things right, it's worth working on. I have a bill in progress that I don't know if it's going to be scheduled for this spring council. It's also about beach fishing, and I would've liked to see it on this bill, it would have fit right there. It's about that in the present system it is that when a boat is registered on a beach fishing boat, it cannot go to another fishing business that way. He's only registered on beach fishing for the summer and the dot and the bottom. In the bill I put out, a boat can register from the beach fishing system and go into other special fishing activities, such as a gray patch and/or a mackerel or some special fishing. Similarly, at the end of August, fishing could be done immediately. On the inside of The British, a gray-free hunt doesn't begin until after May 20th. They have often talked about being on beach fishing until then and then going on a gray patch, but it's not possible because it's not in the law, it needs to be adjusted. As those who have completed the beach fishing or have not finished, might want to go to the mackerel in July and August, they have not been able to do so because the law does not offer it. I hope this bill gets on the schedule and gets a warm welcome. As I came in earlier, the beach hunters have proved themselves. They are very commercial in many parts of the country. Because the term "corruption " has helped in a number of communities that have been hit. I'd like to mention that more deforestation is under attack. I've been in touch with people in the fishing industry. In many places, making fish is very difficult for small and mediumsized types of fish and for those with that size. It is produced naturally by high fishing costs during the current fishing year, resulting from high pay costs and pay - related expenses. It is also because of low price prices, the cost of export is strong and the cost of export is less. Many developers on Snæfellsnes, on the West, and on the beach - these are the places I've been dealing with - and on Southnes and Smokeynesi are quite heavy on the edge of how little understanding seems to be here at the General Assembly over the serious situation of the country that is wide and wide around the country. Then I'm talking about these structures, which are classified as small and medium-sized. I consider, along with other members of the council, working to get parties at meetings, preferably with councilmen, to handle these matters well. And this discussion here at the council could be much more than that. There is too much talk that fishing costs are too low and such, and the fishing work is spoken down. At most of the places I know about, in all the places I know about, there are men in this more and less to sustain employment and also natural to survive, and often it has worked well. But it has been very difficult now, and young people in families that are in the process often do not want to take over because they see the need for help and just want to start doing something else. Young people do not want to accept what their parents have built up, and it may be normal for younger ones to accept. This is a fact and is a very serious matter. I think we here at the High Council need to take this matter very seriously. There's something else I'd like to come on because I'm starting to talk about deforestation in general and on solidity, that's something that's sometimes worn on the roof but that's not too much to talk about, i.e. country partner's prenuptial rights on labour warrants. Today, this prenup does exist, but it's in a rudimentary shape. It's only on a boat. It's not on premeditated. It is also so that if the law was changed to the fact that this was put on reimbursement, rural society would have been able to afford this prerogative rights. In 2016, then. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. A fishing minister, Gunnar Sveinsson Sjönnson, was started working in a graffiti on this matter, that a construction agency could work with banks or credit institutions and credit companies in order to make use of this premium so that it would be less sold from the local community. This is in my mind a very urgent matter to be - all too often done - that home law does not suffer much damage because the sale has been sold away. People have lost their jobs and had to go somewhere else, financial prices have collapsed, and jobs have become disloyal. This has also led to even greater criticism. It is now that most of the resources available here in Iceland are in few hands and the latest news is that they are still decreasing. That's not good news. But I'm not going to go into those hymns here. We'll talk about a beach fishing bill, and I agree with this change. This is a step toward establishing this system, although not all is predictable. But it will be revised in the fall, if this should make it through the council. Finally, I just want to say, the beach fishing system needs to remain in existence. We need to be careful that all too often happened here a few years ago, that these systems, these days, do not end up in the quota. We need to make sure that the coastal fishing system is given its place, is in parentheses, and is both land and nation for the benefit and respect of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u59	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a bill to legalize the changes in fish control laws. There has been a discussion on the trade board since before Easter. I agree with what we've learned here that there might have been more time to go through the matter, and it might be said, in fact, that this is the second time in two years that this case has almost collapsed in time than a year ago we tried, me and the other. The head of a professional network committee, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, made such a change in the coastal fishing system, which was aimed at improving the safety of marines who are fishing. The main point of the work we started was to improve the safety of sailors. I hope we can do it. Of course, we're criticized for a number of things on this bill, but I think, in general, we're taking steps in the right direction. The committee has agreed on this, and it says in a report or commission from the Committee that, as early as the fall, a report on how we have been successful, what we can improve, and we will be working on it with men and their organizations. We try to reach as far as we can, in time, to improve the safety of sailors and to improve the treatment of the catch as well as the objective of all of us who allow sea fishing to be concerned and feel that coastal fishing is important to the settlements, to the fish markets, and to the fish industry in the country. This is what I have been guided by this work. We received numerous reviews, of course, very much in one way, as we have seen here. This bill is being started on this summer, in coastal fishing that is now starting May 1 or 2, adding about 25% more cod access to the system by taking the utilator out of the codfish that each boat can bring to land every day, while the ufs were about 5% of the revenue last year and last year. Then the salad goes from 9,200 tons to 10,200, and then it is added to 1,000 tons from line harmony that would otherwise have fallen. So we're showing that the system is flexible with resources within these 5.3%, sometimes called the social systems of small boats, but, of course, it's just the real system of professionals on the sea, and that the system can meet the changes that had already been reduced to cross-checking because fewer the sharps and the boats dropped, I don't have those numbers completely recorded by myself. I think it's important that within the year, the system can be flexible, it can be alive, and we can move or from a catch that would have fallen dead within the fishing year, and there's no benefit. We've seen it in recent years that the spell has not been reached, and I know that a lot of seamen are very unhappy about it, but by this change, we only came to meet them. For this change, it works, 80% of the utilities were taken at the so-called VS. This change will be made by these laws that this will be 80/20 or 80% for fishing, where auctions and other costs are withdrawn and divided. Although many would have wanted this 100%, this is at least a good step, and to increase the quality of our knowledge of the sea resources. I think it's very important that we keep that in mind too. And we also know that sailors have at times gone to sea and put on a lot of evasion, and then perhaps on the land route, there's been a lot of cod, and then there's a problem with the owl. That's what we want to stop, and I think with this bill we're meeting it. There are positive steps here, and all good things have their time. It makes clear that the bill's primary objective is to increase the safety of small boats by ensuring a number of days for fishing each month, of course, that is also controversial. In the work we've been doing at the Committee and in the data we've acquired in the past two years, it's quite clear that the guys we've been working for the ministry, the national service of the small boat owners and the Ministry we've been working very closely on in this case, that it's quite conclusive and that it's happened all the time, at all our jobs, that there's almost a chance that 11,200 tons of cod for about 1700 pounds of cod. 600 small boats - that is, on average, the number of fish in the last few years, according to the table I have here, they are, of course, up to 700, but last year they were 604 - to do, to become fished by the natural process, to each of them from home, and to the territory staying as comfortable as usual in Iceland over this time. We have been highly critical that 48 days or 12 days per month will not be effective in many areas. In some cases this may happen. According to the information we have received from the Land Association of Small boats, and on their website, 23 of these 604 boats were at sea for more than 48 days, in 2017, in Iceland, 23 of the 604 boats were on the sea for more than 48 days, 23. It also shows in this exchange that it is quite clear that there is no boat in the area of A that will ever exceed 12 days. It is in accordance with the opinion of the little boat sailors I have contacted or have already contacted in pleasant and good relations, that in that area a considerable catch has been missing. They have even had ideas that all the others would just go there and, as one said, leave us alone. There is quite a general agreement that there is a need to expand the region of A. I also have information about the fact that in individual settlements it has been used very little by a host of fishermen. It is good for you to keep to the point that somewhere you may not be able to work so hard on things, although, of course, in between weeders have little boats to do these fishing with great power and energy for the whole season and to use every single single shot you can catch. According to the information I have here, there were 12 boats on a beach fishing last year, last summer, in 2017. They went to sea for a total of 310 days. It is usually 25.8 days a boat. Here we are talking about 48 days of human selection. There's a lot more for the whole fleet. In fact, there were two boats that went to sea 45 and 46 days last year, some went 20 days, others went less, and that's what I think was quite widespread. We've decided that the system is for everyone. Hence, it may now be that the days vary in different ways, but it certainly is by powerful and powerful sailors that all these, of course, will never be sufficient to catch any gentle weather - based fish when scourging on all commands and lava. That is the nature of the fisherman. Of course, we need to deal with the challenge here as well as to calm it down a little. I also feel that when we are discussing this matter, it is important that we now have an opportunity to choose the 12 best days each month of the 16 maybe available, i.e. Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, the other three days are not allowed to hunt. Of course, there have been repeated requests from sailors that it will be opened before those days. We discussed this at the Committee, and we received information on this, including the matter. From the fish market, the whole system is actually closed over the summertime, the whole transportation system, the auction system, the countries. That's a huge chain that starts all week, the whole winter, every day. There are many aspects of what we need to consider if we are to work with sailors on this in the fall. What I think is of utmost importance to the work ahead of me is that these 48 days will be enough for the Navy to increase 25%. I think it's very important that we take care of it. We have information that tells us that this will work out completely. I hope it will. Of course, we need to work together in order to do so. That's how it is with all systems. They don't just have one-way valves, where everybody goes to one area and finish this whole thing all by themselves, two and bingo. That's not how it works. It wouldn't be good if that were to happen. We need to stick together to keep taking the right steps in this matter, and the interests of the seaman will in the end always be exposed to the settlements and the seaman. I think there is also something else that we need to consider in this relationship and, of course, relate to this. It's the timing of the hunting in the fields. The ring around Iceland is fish-borne. It will start in different directions and in these four areas may not be suitable for all of May 1st to catch or May 2nd. It is quite known that in the region of D, the fishing would be much better started on April 1, that area would be more likely to obtain the resources it has had for coastal fishing in recent years. From 2009 up to this day on, only two areas have taken hold of fishing and across all the available resources. We need to meet these viewpoints. The shark comes after the fur, and we have to give sailors in the D area the opportunity to catch it at the time it takes. The exact same thing has to happen in section C and in part in section B. It's a little late and it's probably better to start hunting on June 1 and be out September. I think this is one of the things we need to look at when we're making this up in the summer, some of which I hope will be of the benefit of the sailors, and it turns out that we're taking the right step into the future for the sailors. This saying has been designed to strengthen the infrastructure in the scattered areas, to strengthen the fish market, and I think it is very important for small boats to survive the fish market. The amount has been reduced which has entered the fish market, and it is very important that the available catcher be in such a country, that the formation of the prices will be correct and the management of the fish market, and weighing in accordance with the rules. After all, I think we're taking steps to improve this system. I'm sure it's not enough. Many will criticize it, but let us give ourselves the opportunity to use these four months to learn well from it. Then, in the fall, let's cut back on the baits and continue the important work of improving the coastal system, improving the coastal culture, and the respect for the resource.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u60	A respectable president. It is a big, big deal, like always in the control of fishing. Fishing management has been one of the great interests of this nation, and it is important to have certain things clearly established about how this has been achieved. I'd like to review some views on these matters without carefully considering the bill that is being discussed here. Of course, you can live up to this bill's objective, to increase the safety of sailors. I think we all agree that it's very important to do the best. There are, however, other factors that are involved in reaching this grand goal. The marine fishing system was put on to try to improve the agreement on the control of the fish industry and the usefulness of the resource. I think it's important to get it too. The question, then, is how we do it in the best way we do it. There's something else in this, too. There must also be thought of how this will best benefit the settlements that are at the root of all of this, one of them; it should be to settle that and also to try to restore the sea settlements and reject the land alive again. How can we get the best out of it? I think it's shown that the present fishing system is one of the best ways we can get. That's where we're looking out for the real deal, where we get the most practical. But there may have been one thing that hasn't done there, i.e. to maintain a country's medium-sized and medium-sized structure. Then we must not forget the discussion about part of the explanation - perhaps not the only reason - that it did not work. Why have the small and mediumsized productions dropped so dramatically around the country, with fewer activities being involved? I think there's two of them; one of the spells we're going to set out for the fishing fees. After they arrived, the compression has increased. However, when this 5.3% pot was created as a coastal fishing system, and we discuss it, it only took advantage of many of these projects. As a result, they did not succeed, and then this compression started to penetrate that economy. What was needed for management because the fishing documents were drawn together, and extra spells were in the form of fishing fees. That's why I feel so important, and I love the discussion that today that we're always talking about this increase and the amount of space we have to fix and improve our coastal fishing system within these 5.3%. I can feel it from today's discussion, and I think it is very important that we do not use any further cuttings, including the smaller and mediums, that remain in the country. I think it's very important that we're clear and we're their patrons. The bill is going on with an attempt to see how its goals are going. Then we're looking at the security issues and, of course, co-ordinated, how the business is going with those involved. 5.3% of the hot tub has been in this very thing, trying to balance areas and to be this based support, this security valve that the state has to try to meet the tragedy that many of the world's TVs have been experiencing around the country. That's why I think we're going to be re-evaluated right now in the fall, like the winter. The head of the trade committee, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, comes in, is behind the whole system, not just the beach fishing but the settlement and the special settlements of the home base as well. It's all underneath. How do we make the best use of these 5.3% of our country's settlements? Is it by expanding the coastal fishing system even more? Or by altering some of the settlements? It is also important to consider what this has done. Have any of these systems produced a whole year's work, a future job, in the settlements? Has this given us some sort of professional stability in our settlements? Then we also have the courage to discuss honestly that it might help to return some of the 5.3% to the small and mediumsized productions still in the settlements to achieve their practicality and to reduce the likelihood that all of these initiatives will go into the large structure. We need to have the courage to ask these questions too, how we have been affected, how we have succeeded. We also need to realize one thing about this discussion: This collective resource of the nation, how do we want to use it, and how do we feel it will be most useful? Do we want to use it as a settlement so that we can secure jobs in every corner of the country? Or do we want to use this resource so that we get as much money as possible directly from the box? Or do we want them through the secondary activities around the country to keep the country inhabited? Or do we want the resource to be returned as much as possible to the state fund in terms of dollars? I don't think we can do both. I don't think an Icelandic fishing route can return a large sum of money directly to a government fund without staging a lot of things that call for a great compression; which I don't think most people will call for. Yet, I'm going to say that there is not necessarily a mark of great design and efficiency in a fishing road. Small and medium-sized enterprises can be very economical if they have the right budget for size. That's what I came in here. I think that the practicality has gone a lot when the impairment came up to make 5.3% or part of it. I think we have to be open to all these speculations and facts on this matter to ensure what we want, which is that the structure will continue to exist in the settlements of the country. Whether this increase will go well: all calculations show it today. However, we must not ignore that if we are moving closer and closer to the current fishing system, we're talking about more than ever before, and we're going to get more ahead in some areas, if you get more days. This may encourage others to enter the system. It's something that is hard to predict, whether your system will grow a lot, and in which areas. It also has to be checked very carefully whether any boats will be registered in other areas now than last year. Will anything happen to make the best use of this system we're doing an experiment with here? Will boats increase abnormally in one area or decrease? It needs to be carefully monitored. Then I'll say again, if anything like this happens, if there's going to be a significant increase in the system, which I'm not saying is going to happen but can happen, there'll be more registration in that area that is most likely to be able to use twelve days for most of the months to get as much money as possible, then it's important that we don't go up to 5.3% to make sure that all areas have opened 48 days. It's always a lot of discussion, how we secure the settlements. We need to ensure safety in the coastal seas, but we must not take them so far as to become part of the big fishing system. But we know that if we were to secure the security and the best for the settlements, we would do it that way. But we have to accept that we'll never get to take the beach fishing there if we're going to have this system that likes to let as many people go in so that as most people can use the resource in a direct way; not getting the indirect benefit from it, but directly by going fishing. It's not a simple thing. There are things that need to be settled, and others need to have the courage to discuss and consider, which I hope will be done immediately in the autumn. I hope so deeply, if it becomes Generals' conclusion to make this experiment, that it will work best to ensure the safety of sailors, and that the whole area will come on an equal basis out of this change.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u61	A respectable president. It is close to the beginning of a coastal fishing season in Iceland, and those they are now planning to do are in a position of uncertainty about how the system will operate, depending on the rules to go to this time. The Government Treaty states that the provision of the sources of resources over which the State has custody, including coastal fishing, must be weighed, with the aim of ensuring structure and innovation. This is something I think we can all agree on. This 5.3% system is composed of several factors and has been made honest attempts to change it over the past few years, but with little success. As a result, this is a very sensitive matter. Shrimp and Scaring are for example, whether or not they are still right or for the time they were meant to be. There is no question about it, but it has not been able to change it. It's been added to the system since then. We had a so - called settlement, which is exactly what is meant for the same purpose. It was then added to the so - called urban graffiti that is primarily thought of as provisional tools and tools for a living agency in order to respond to the so - called fractured settlements. It has certainly been successful. This social aspect of the system as considered is in my opinion the step to try to reconcile the point of view because of the impact of marine eco-efficiency and is about 5.3% of the total resources we have for each fishing year. One variable affects everything else. If there is an increase in one place, it must be taken away from another place. If you think back in time a report was made, I don't remember whether it was two or three years ago, of the University of Akureyri, of the employees there, who evaluated the central effects of these tools in the toolbox. This report was thus not a complete assessment of the system, but it was relatively brief since the so - called urban eugenicoti had been started and there was not enough experience to assess the effect of this. However, based effects measured by other aspects of the system were most in line integration. They didn't score very high in the beach weather. This is the theoretical approach that we should naturally look to in connection with the objectives we set with this social feature of the system. This is in this respect, not in accordance with the Constitution, and not in the appropriate methodology, but when we have the text to work on what we have, the rules, to have these patches repaired, to move on one part of this system without looking to the overall picture. It has certainly followed the present system of defects. I'm not going to debate the effects of it for a number of people and individuals and families. I don't think anyone's talking about shutting down this system. The galls may have appeared primarily to the so - called western region, the region here for the West and the West. There's been good work there. As a result, more boats have practiced this, and this has resulted in a very limited number of days of rest. This needs to be in my opinion that, quite clearly, they must balance their status with the status of those who calm down in other parts of the country and thus try to prevent the discrimination that has been compared to how these have been implemented in recent years. It is relatively simple to respond to this now when significant improvements are being made in the quantity that can be made in the coastal fishing system. The evidence for these changes is considered in the job trade committee's article. What I think is unfortunate in that approach of the case here and now, it's that there's been expectations that can't be followed at all. For half of them why. How much it is said that the figures are expected, that they are expected, even so deeply addressed here at the beginning of the year! The head of the committee earlier felt that there was nothing to worry about that the amount would run out, nothing to worry about. Of course, that requires an explanation. To approach the criticism I have of this matter, I would like to quote the committee's opinion, by permission of a president, which says,Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: ▪ In the opinion of the Commission, the likelihood that fishing needs to be stopped has been substantially reduced by increasing total fishing clearances. In the opinion of the Committee, any additional documents are likely to ensure that in all areas fishing is possible for 12 days every month. Who's going to sign this? That's what the committee does. However, it depends on the opinion of the Committee that this has greatly reduced its likelihood and that there is all potential for it, etc. Second, here's what it says: ▪ The Committee also suggests that a minister, not a Fishing Room, can stop fishing when the total number of ships exceed the amount set for coastal fishing. If a minister has to stop fishing, it is important that a careful analysis of the impact of the changes presented here suggest for the hunt and for the development of fish over the year, especially the potential for coastal fishing by individual areas. I don't get a whole line in this line, a respectable president. I may be limited in the sense of this, yet it is said quite clearly that there is a minister who can stop the fish. In other words, it is assumed that they will be stopped, likely at the point once the total quantity of fish has been fished. Third, it says: It is therefore stated that in the Regulation followed by this law, a minister is not only authorized to stop fishing but also authorized for Ministers to increase the total catch in accordance with 5 mg. Section 8. in May, June, July, and August. What does this tell us? This tells me that it is being given to those who do this fishing, build their goods on these things, or even in part, with high expectations that I do not know unless there is any basis for it, if and perhaps not. That doesn't seem right to me. I just don't think it works. Fourth, it says here: With these changes, the committee believes that it meets many of the views presented in reviews such as concerns about stopping in August. All of this is if and maybe. A respectable president. There's nothing upset with our beach fishing system. It's been going quite well, though, there's certainly been some routines on the system. The system was disputed in its time, and it has been criticized, especially the status of the western region in recent years. I think the amount started at the time was about 3 you. a ton. They were corrected by someone who could better remember. Today, it's 11,200 tons. That's 2 up. a ton of planning since last year. In addition, it has a value of 500 tons by altering the absence of ufs in the quathans. So they're adding, a respectable president, 2,500 tons, or more than 25% of these resources in this system, which is not in any confusion at all, and they've been calling it back and forth. Then I ask, " What is it that motivates us to act in such fundamentals with great shame in advance of these factors? ' Instead, we do well to look for ways around this rift and generous addition of 2,500 tons to allow patches into the system as it is to meet obvious flaws, to help them balance these details just between areas, and to allow a larger proportion of those resources to flow to them in the western region. If changing the coastal fishing system in a day - to - day system is the idea of transporters, you need to speak clearly. I sometimes feel like there's an underlying tone in this discussion, but I go around it like a cat around a hot grin. Of course, such a fundamental change would be that at that time a much deeper discussion would be needed. It is not possible to do so, and it is by no means normal to do so within a few days at the time that this fishing is beginning in a language presented two weeks ago, or less than 20 days ago. Hv. A senator and a friend of mine, Ásmundur Friðriksson, earlier said: "I hope it'll do you good. We must stick together to be effective. Yes, how would we senators agree that this is sufficient? I can't figure it out. That's what I have to say. I can't figure it out, either. The head of the Commission, Lilja Magnúsdóttir Magnneydottttir, says that it is being guaranteed for all 12 days anywhere in the country by this route and that the subsequent changes in the system will become goods and charms. It's one of those things that people are making expectations and saying, "We're not gonna stop you. Then some must ask: Where, then, will the dark picture go, especially those living in the northeastern and Southeast lands, from where? They live under the circumstances that fishing has begun late in the season, fishing more later than in the previous season, built up with a lot of confidence, based on the fact that the fishing has been called preconceived, such as the Breindalsvík, Hafjörður, and others can do so. What will be the point of saying to those who have practiced this fishing? That's a possibility. This is shown in the data provided by the bill that the possibility exists. It's being floundered, hoping that all of this will work, and it's going to have to make sure all the days, etc. We senators are often criticized for making empty promises. I think it might be good for us to think about it in this relationship. A respectable president. Again. I don't see any reason and no grammatical arguments, they haven't been found in the discussion, for making this big change in this system now, do some experiment now that's not planned. Many visitors to the committee received very misleading messages when they expressed their concern that the volume would not work, thus describing opposition to the matter. But when they were prepared to make sure that they could catch for 12 days in all the fields throughout the months, they were satisfied, natural, with an open check on it. What does that mean? I've talked to a lot of little boat sailors in the last few days and more. I agree that if there were, there would be a lot of people going into the second fishing system, especially in the difficult conditions of many small and medium-sized structures at this time, where debt is very serious. It was pathetic to listen to a description of what happened. A member of the United States who spoke earlier today on this matter and, quite frankly, did not recognize the problem facing us and face it. Many will be tempted to rent even some of the salutations they have left in order to reduce the financial situation and enter this system where you can accept permission without paying for it. That's just understandable. Let us not give some expectations that are not fundamental to those who should be least expected. Let's look at the whole thing. Let's celebrate as it should be, this is a 25% increase in the amount of at least, more than that, between the years and sharing out that we meet the most critical views of this system, critical of this system, of specific discrimination between areas. It is simple to do so. This can be used as a special pot that would be especially removed. Then we finish this summer and we review this social aspect of our fishing system in the fall and get a greater deal of satisfaction with how we are going to change it, just in order to fulfill what is in the Treaty's Treaty, to ensure stability and innovation in the marine waters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u62	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son before his speech. I respect his opinion on this matter, and I can totally agree with some of it. The senator, however, entered 5.3% in connection with shrimp and shell, line-making, muppets, where it is taken out. I felt like the senator was talking about the time to take out the shrimp and Scaring benefits. Then I'd like to point out that despite once again being seen in the Froveralfjord, this is just a fraction of what was already known, which was about 9,000 tons at the best, but is now some 7,975,1000 tons, and is still in the testing range. There are fishing projects in Stykkisolmi, who rely on the fact that this is not going to be taken over and who depend heavily on the fact that this is not going to change. I was trying to google out who the pot was 2009, but I'm not quite sure. I got an 8.600 tons here. Now, I think it's a lot, but I think it's more than 6,000, but it's not more than 4,000, as shown in the senator's talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u63	A respectable president. Yes, those words were said here without responsibility. I can't exactly remember what started out in itself is not the main issue today but the one that has been added to the situation has been said a little over and over. Only with regard to that 5.3% pot. What I quoted earlier is a review carried out at the prosecuting committee at the request of a minister; I hold for two or three years each year, in which we were trying to get close to putting our arms around these 5.3% and how we should divide them between individual categories. What I was saying is that, among other things, the time had come to take away shrimp and Scaring. I did not put it to the committee at that time, and that did not have to be our conclusion. They tried to make it right. It's controversial. It's got two sides, they've got improvements. So they did not take that step. But it may show how sensitive this system is in general. When these ideas first came to the fore, especially on the shrimp, rather than on the technical scrawl, which was then extremely difficult, it meant a great storm. That's exactly what this is about. If you move one variable or change one point, all the others will be affected. There are interests everywhere, and in all categories there are very rich interests for those under it. Hence, the need to approach very carefully, with objective discussion and approach and scholarly assessment, how to develop this transition within this system.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u64	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for this. I was here at the council as a deputy when this was a conversation with the shrimp and Scaring. This was at the same time the discussion of helping with the fracture - related areas. They had to get some reservations in order to get the resources to do so. Then these matters began to be discussed, and they ran a great deal in my own country, and they went out to explain it. It is this way today that you have to pick this up every year to make this happen; it's very insecure, it's always from year to year, and it's a big concern. I can totally agree with the senator that all of these variables influence and down the street. I respect the senator's opinion and thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u65	Madam President. First, I want to thank those who participated in this discussion for a good and perfunctory discussion. Many views have come to the fore. I think it's a very good thing for men to respond to this discussion with a positive attitude toward coastal fishing over their heads, that they were foreordained, and strengthened the settlements from the time they were put on. That, of course, matters for the future of coastal fishing. It has been said that little movement can be done so that it can't control anything else, and surely this object is within the big crop system, 5.3%, not big. There are things that are sensitive to many settlements such as broiling and chiding, and, as mentioned above, shell and shrimping improvements. And then there's the beach fishing. The fishery in Iceland is a gift and, fortunately, it has been growing throughout the years. There was one 255 yous. a ton for the last fishing year and was added to ten o'clock. Tons that were moved between fishing years, which were not used before. Of course, this system is enjoying 5.3% of its benefits as the total energy in Iceland is increased. Today's system is far from imprudent, and of course itches me in my hands to hold here a proper speech about the problems of the greeting system. But I'm going to keep back because we're dealing with certain issues, coastal fishing, and I've been able to work very hard together, the group on a professional committee, to the matter, and to feel the approval of the council, although there's certainly concern that the amount of money that will be important to the whole season is not enough. I, as I mentioned earlier, don't worry about them. We have to run that much, based on the calculations that have been submitted for support. I agree with the words that, fortunately, professional conditions are very good in society today. There may not be much incentive for investing in a boat with all the means of fishing, and unfortunately, coastal fishing boats have been decreasing. That hasn't been good enough. In many ways, the group that makes the sea fishing work differs from one another. I like it when eatable boats have a chance to have a whole life of beach fishing during the summer. I like it very much. Hv. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason mentioned the challenges of many small and medium - sized factories, and I can take my heart off those concerns. The target system has to be expected for multiplicity, and resources do not accumulate on a few hands of large productions in the country. Foreign markets call for the raw materials of dandelion boats, good raw materials, on lines and hooks, and for others the fishing process of these small and medium - sized fishing projects. All of this needs to be mixed in order to have this diversity. I'm more concerned about these young men - because they are now mainly young men who go to sea and pursue rowing - a small person who is interested in having a head to go into development and try to get into that sector. Perhaps we are faced with doing what the dance council did, and all there agreed to do everything possible to promote fishing on the coasts of Denmark. This was because it was eating away from the coastal areas in a few hands. When Danish members of the council saw that this article was disappearing from their landscapes, their professional life, and their culture, they agreed to make a statement at the council that promoted the movement of men to pursue quieter seas in Denmark, where the tradition had existed over the years. I also consider coastal fishing to be part of our sea - related culture, not some bouncy, but a serious branch that supports other working life in the country; an article that should have respect and place in the discussion, i.e. to support coastal fishing and to strengthen other mediumsized projects in the land that have certainly improved national interests and are entitled to do so. But everybody's got to live, it's just that way in the factory, like in the line of work. We want to do this experiment in the summer, and I think it's been very well over why it is, to improve security, flexibility and possibility of recruitment. The country is different, and I think it's important that by the fall, we consider the possibility of beginning earlier in the early spring fishing areas and having that flexibility in the system. But if this experiment is not done then we still have to say it's a good idea, to put up with more authority, and to get an answer to all of this. I haven't quite seen 2500 tons of it being added, like a whale. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson mentioned earlier, but it's good if it is. But at least it's safe to get those 11,200 tons, and they become more valuable, since it's not in there, and then it becomes clear what it looks like when the summer passes out, about ruined sources that would burn inside. If needed, action can be taken to meet it. Thank you for your great discussion. We'll take it into account between 2 and 3. Environment, due to a few factors that have been mentioned here today, and I expect a meeting to be held on the job board before noon, between 11 and 12, tomorrow. We'll go over it so we can finish this second thing tomorrow at a vote. It is urgent to move forward so that people can be called for a beach fishing permit, and they can get on a beach fishing immediately after May 1.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u66	A respectable president. I took to heart the story of the committee's article on the topic of No. 115, a bill to correct the conversion of electricity laws and laws on the establishment of Landsnet Corp. This bill has been well discussed by a professional health committee, as well as by many sources. Visitors were invited to a meeting from the Landsnet, energy production companies, rural communities, rural organizations, and other organizations. The bill suggests some changes in electricity laws and laws for the establishment of Landsnet. In 1st. is proposed to change the electricity law of consenting to so-called Internet products, i.e. Landnet protocols for system management, moving from secretary to Power Institute. There is also a clear set of rules to cover the general conditions required for the management and control of the transport system. Two, four, four, four, four, four, five, five, five, five, five, five, nine, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, par. it is suggested that the government's policy on the building of electricity transport systems should be referred to, in addition to the existing indicators and since 2015, i.e. Government policy on fixing electrical lines. That's 5th. oblige that, instead of being referred to a Council of competition in Article 27. The law says no to the Contestant. Six. It is suggested that the energy manager submits a report to the Minister on the implementation of power monitoring in addition to a report with existing power control information as per local legislation. This change is suggested following indications from the EFTA monitoring facility. The change in the law regarding the establishment of the Landsnet prescribed in the bill includes Article 3. Their law will be removed, but it requires that the Minister take the terms of the state's property in the Landsnet and ship a government of three men without a form. If the bill is legalized, the law on the partlines will apply to the order of the Landsnet administration and will be intended to change the approval of the company so that the authorities will be five. Thus, when discussing the matter of the committee, it was able to review more aspects of the electricity market legislation, including the limits of the income of the transport company, the holding of the Landsnet, competition, and the origin of responsibility. Although this was not taken directly, members of the Committee agree that this review needs to be made up of discussions about Landsnet's ownership. In the transport system of electricity, clients generally have the obligation to pay for the structure and operation of the transport system on the basis of the provision of the transport company. The first question, 10 mg. Section 12. a Electrical layer is required for a so-called positive system support, i.e. that if the link between the new inducers or major users to transport systems results in increased costs for other users, payment should be required. The aim is to protect customers from rising ups due to linking inaccessible new organisations so that the person contributing to the high cost will have to carry it. The second issue of the same series of articles defines a so-called negative system structure that should be taken into account if the connection to the transport system leads to more efficient development or innovation. According to this, it may be necessary to pay for those involved in the transport system at a suitable location. The Commission believes that the target of efficiency in the transport system will be met by means of a positive system implementation and suggest that the latter being 10 mg. Section 12. a Electrical layer is removed, in other words, to take out a negative system structure. Many comments received by the Committee have established the possession of Landsnet, as above, in over 60% of which many consider inappropriate. The reviews and reports on the above are available, including the 2015 State Review Report on the Landsnet Corporation, role, possession and plans. A final follow-up report was submitted in February. as it was stated that in the Department of Employment and Development, it was underlined to ensure the independence of the Landsnet to citizens of the electronic energy market and that the Ministry had the opinion that the company would be directly owned by the State and/or rural but not by local energy companies. For a long time, it has been discussed making changes in the possession of the Landsnet, which requires some action and preparation and has the right to attack the work as soon as possible. This is in few words about this bill and the change that may not be important, but, of course, there are some things that are worth looking at. The committee proposes that the bill be approved. All members of the committee sign the committee's opinion, plus me as it stands, it's Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Sæland Góndand, Elíasdóttir Friðbjörg Frildur, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, Sigurður, Páll Jónsson and Álfheiður Eymarsdóttir. I won't have any more words about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u67	A respectable president. I didn't mean to have many words on this matter, but since I see that I have 20 minutes, and I don't have to spend it on a lunch break, I might use them just to discuss this case just here. It doesn't have to be surprising that I support this opinion of the committee. Signý Signiy Kristjánsdóttir came in. I'd like to come up here, I don't really talk about having such princes come into the hall that's actually going to be seen, just to tie it down like a dog. A speaker entered his fine talk, entitled to the possession of Landsnet. It is marked with many of the comments we hear in the night. As a result, many of the visitors we visited called for some sort of reexamination of property. As indicated in the opinion of the Committee, a review of the Landsnet in 2015 was made specifically by the State's Reconnaissance in 2015, including the Management Board. was introduced into the unfortunate structure of property. In February it. was then submitted a follow-up report. Like what? An authority in progress does not feel that a State Accounting investigation is a reason to reiterate his observations where it was found that at the Department of Employment and Development, it would have been under way that national and local authorities would have to be protected from the independence of national energy markets and that the Ministry had to believe that the company would be directly owned by the state and/or rural but not by energy companies owned by them. I'm gonna take a quick, short time to come into this situation a little bit better. I have often talked to this place about the need for a larger vision when it comes to the energy of Icelanders. I'm just gonna let me be optimistic, as I'm instinctive, and say that we're on a certain threshold in this regard. V.E.G. The government has already provided, and it has either been published or listed, a considerable of the projects being done to draw up this larger picture. It's a real pleasure. The government covenant speaks of a land - activation policy. We're fucked. Work committee with a policy on the construction of electrical transport systems. In these days, transverse political committees are being set up on long - term energy policies. We took care of last year, if I remember correctly, a concierge on transport energy change. It can be counted that long. We are at the point where we are about to view the nation's energy supply as a larger unit rather than that we think about its individual sectors and how we can make the most of it. True, it must be done too, but first we need to look to the whole body and how we put this energy in its best interests. This bill of changing electricity laws and laws on the establishment of Landsnet Corp. It's not the largest piece of paper on its own, but it's a thin one. I'm glad to see it because I think it's ambitious how it's the highest. The government is going to hold on to all the concerns of the energy industry. I'm glad it's in the highest. The Ministry has received the answer that this work would be started when it came to the tenet policy for the Landsnet. I'm sure we all have an opinion of how this will work out for the best. This is where the Ministry is considering that the company would be live owned by state and/or rural society, which I think is a good way to look at. I look forward to observing the work the Ministry has been preaching.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u68	Madam President. Maybe I'm on the same line as a why. A senator standing before me. In the changing of the electronic law we're discussing here, the holding of the Landsnet is a very important factor, a big, big, and big future project that will likely take place in the future. I just wanted to come here right away, and I just wanted to remind you how important it is. Some countries, such as Sweden, view energy transport as an important factor. It has been noted in the Committee that the Ministry of Defense in Sweden, the key energy transport system is the Ministry of Defense. This shows how serious a person sees the matter. We're going to do this as soon as possible, and it's nice to see that we're about to be working long-term energy policy, considering the policy of land activation, a subject that's expected to enter in in the next few months, and then it's an enormously large and large problem that is building on the main energy transport system, which is a fundamental element of national energy efficiency and the future development of commercial life in Iceland. I'm not going to give a long talk about this, but I just wanted to come here and celebrate the fact that this is going to be happening here and then the discussion about these things that we're going to deal with over the next semester.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u69	Madam President. Here's a recommendation for the employment board's committee's committee's committee on bill for a change in salmon and trout law, No. 61/2006, with subsequent changes. This bill is about the control of appeals. A principle that applies to salmon and trout fishing is that ice fishing is authorized throughout the year. The bill suggests that the legislation on salmon and trout fish will be added to laws that give the Minister permission to set rules that prohibit or limit fishing on aluminium throughout the country or in designated areas if this is thought to be necessary, in the opinion of the Marine Research Agency. The bill is based on large reductions in the size of the aluminium population and has been seen in the list of species of animals and plant species at risk of extinction since 2009. Commenting on the matter, for example, the ban on hunting is on nearly every corner of the world, and so on. The International Oceanographic Research Council for Fishing on Aluminium during the time of the strain. It was discussed in the Committee that there is already a legal authority to limit fishing, but the committee agrees with what it says in comments to the bill, that the ban or limitation of river fishing must be based on clear legal authority covering this kind. Also, the judicial committee points out in comments to the bill that the ban or limitation of fishing must be based on scientific foundations and well supported. The committee feels that it is normal for the strain to be further investigated and that monitoring is possible to support the quality of available knowledge at a time. The committee proposes that the bill be accepted as unchanged. Under the heading, all the professionals are written by Director Magnúsdóttir Rafney Magnústir, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, Sæland Göndand, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Elíasdóttir Fjordurfjörður Elisdótir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Kolbeinn Otmarsson Proppé, Sigurður, Páll Jónsson and Eymarsdóttir Eymar.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u70	Madam President. I recommend a board of committees with a bill-to-be modification proposal to legalize the patent law. The case comes from a professional committee. The committee has discussed the matter and has received a meeting with Brynhildur Jónsson from the Department of Professional Road and Developments, Margrét Hjálmarsdóttir from the Private Secret Office and Þorlákur of the Private Secret Experts. The committee received a review from a private secret expert. The bill suggests that changes to current patent laws include the following: on the one hand it is proposed to implement the European Commission Regulation on additional protection for medicinal products as well as to implement the EU Regulation on the rights of the private Marketing Authorisation Holder to apply for the extension of additional PSURs for medicinal products for the paediatric population. The reason for increased protection with drugs is the extensive research and development needed to result in the real duration of the patent will be shorter than for other inventions. Specific testing must also be performed in the paediatric population. However, it is suggested that the legislation be coordinated and adapted to the Norwegian and European initiatives, such as case handling, recording of the services due to the treatment of judicial action against patents and notifications to the rights to pay annual fees. The committee suggests several adjustments to the bill in order to explain more fully individual regulations. A clearer word is used to refer to Article 1. to better characterise the data of a subsequent application and to update wording in 3mgs. 1st par. An adjustment of the wording of 2 Ki. about the language of an application. Communicate with the publication of the private authorisation should be provided in English by the national competent authority of the Member State. This change is also proposed at Article 5. to shoot in the word '-' or to rejuvenate. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: 1st We're on 1st. a. Instead of the word ◆ the·deiʹdei·a in the 2nd stanza, 1 mg. come: basic data. b. Instead of the word'supplys,'3rd - mg. come: content of an application. 2. Volumes 3 and 4. Put it this way: The applicant may request that the text of the patent be provided in English. If patented in English text, the requirements for patenting should be met in Icelandic translation. 3. Instead of the words, and the drawings, to the a-team 5. Come on, come on. And/or drawings. Hv. paritaprevir Eymarsdóttir Eymarsdóttir writes this in advance. Sæland Goland was away from the hearing. The Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir sat with the committee as an officer of the hearing and is acceptable to this opinion. For this, the one that stands here, the chairman and authority, and the w. Jón Gunnarsson Proppé Kristjánsdóttir, Óttarsson Friðbjörg Furfjörður Elíasdóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Kolbeinn Ostinsson, Jónsson, Sigurður Eymarsdóttir. The wish has come to me to consider specific details of this and to receive better explanations. So I'll ask that the case be accepted into the job committee between the 2nd and 3rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u71	Madam President. I hereby recommend a committee party with a bill-change proposal to correct a change in insurance law, No. 100/2016. The bill is aimed at implementing the 2014/51/ESB directives that changed, including Directive 2009/138/EC, which has not already been legalized in this country. The changes are now aiming to update environmental insurance laws on the authority of the European Life insurance and Penitentiary Funds that were adopted by the European Commission legislation on the financial market, No. 24/2017. The review of the FEC, involved in the bill, points out that it was likely misinformed by 6 mg. Thirty-nine. Directive 2009/138/EC for official reports on the implementation of the insurance stock when the health insurance risk is located here on the country. Sets the Agency to add this and an appropriate paragraph to Article 34. The law. In consultation with the Ministry, the Committee suggests a change in the bill. Follows the change with this committee body. It may be noted that the sources of financial companies made a comment to an inconsistencies between wording 9.g. the bill and the comments given in a report, where the wording of the article is more extensive than the wording of comments. The indication is valid in the opinion of the Committee, but it has been shown that the decision was not to require the terms of the pre-communicative terms of the Commission to be limited to the reduction of the stocks, but should reach all decisions leading to a reduction in the perpetuation of a health insurance union. Other than that, I refer to the committee. Under the heading, all the members of the Economic and Business Committee are writing why. paritaprevir Óli Björn, the son of Kárason, the son of Þorsteinn, Briveth the Víglundsson of Níelsson, the Bryndís of Bordi, the son of Haraldsdóttir, the Helgi Hrafn of Gunnarsson, the daughter of Harðardóttir, the G. of Oddar, Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, Sigmundur Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson, and Silja the Dögg of Döggggi, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir. Ólafur Ísleifsson, an officer of the Committee, supports this opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u72	A respectable president. I recommend to the members of the Committee on the Council's Conspiracy Directive that guarantee the benefits, benefits, and effectiveness of public investments. By permission of the highest power. I'd like to read the short suggestion, but it says: ▪ The General concluded to hide financial and economic secretarys to implement policy development with the aim of ensuring the quality, efficiency and effectiveness of public investments from the stage of development and the planned life span. The secretary of a five - man team to establish formal government cooperation, employment, and educational community on the development of frame plans for three years in order to build up knowledge and skills and to improve research on the quality, efficiency, and effectiveness of public investments. In the Parliamentary decree, a minister is appointed to present his proposals no later than March 1, 2018. We're gonna do what we're gonna do. A financial and business committee has reviewed the matter and has attended our meeting with Jón Ólafsson from MPA University in Reykjavík, Þórður Víkingur Friðgeirsson from the National Research Centre CORDA at the University of Reykjavík and Ingþór Karl Eiríksson, of the State. The committee received reviews from the MPM Society, the research site CORDA, Iceland's Project Management Association, Iceland's Accuracy Association, and Iceland's Business Management Board. All guests and reviewers encourage the council's resolution proposal to be accepted. Although much has been done in recent years to improve the development of public funds and projects, it can be concluded that they can be improved further. The committee considers it wise to consult the educational community and to use the knowledge of those who have studied these matters in particular. The committee considers it important to develop a clear policy on the issues proposed and take public investments from the beginning, the stage of ideas, and to the end, i.e. published the life span of each investment. It's normal to go to the highest. Economic and economic secretarys have taken the lead in such policies and changes in the laws and regulations relevant to these issues, such as the laws on public projects, No. 84/2001. The Commission feels that it would be appropriate to refer specifically to the aspect of the resolution that deals with formal government, professional, and educational community on the development of frame plans for three years in order to develop knowledge and skills and to improve research. In order for real reforms to take root in the long run, careful preparation, data collection, and research is needed. Many years begin to change attitudes and culture and to introduce new processes of thought. The committee also wants to point out that improved work practices and the provision of public funds are designed to produce social benefits and results in this field can spread. In view of the above, the Commission suggests that the proposal will be accepted, although with the following adjustment suggestions: Instead of the date 6:1. March 3, 2018, 3 mgr. The suggestion is: November 1, 2018. Under the committee of this magazine, Óli Björn Kárason, president of the Economic and Business Committee, The Helgi Slurfn Gunnarsson, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, Silja Þorsteinn Víglundsson, and Ólafur Ísleifsson Iususunsson of the Committee is in agreement with this view.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u73	A respectable president. The important thing for me was to come up here and celebrate this proposal and the singleness that is behind the opinion of the committees and to use this opportunity to mention one thing and to consider the opinion of the committee. There's a pilot on it. This refers to ways to ensure the practicality of public investments, and the amount of money that is properly donated to public investment projects each year. The same can be said of the amount of money coming into public management. If we take, for example. For example, the health - care system where private business is involved is behind the service contracts of a requirements for making use of the budget. Substitution of public business, i.e. However, hospitals, clinics, and other clinics for health care have not been able to cope despite the fact that much has passed since the first discussion. I wondered if there's any way. An authority who has been considering this matter from public investments to use the ideologies behind this section to further ensure the practicality of public affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u74	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. To answer, of course, here we are dealing with a political arrangement, not public business, but public investments. A senator came in. That's right, and I'm also glad that there's a lot of monopoly on the Committee to accept this council-sense proposal and a broad political agreement about it, as we come to this proposal from many categories. There is also reason to mention that we discussed it on the committee when we received our fine guests and wondered if public investments are more important than investments in the private sector. One reason may be that budgets for private investments are not available. As with the public sector, we may not fully realize whether such investments are going ahead of plans. But I agree that there's good reason to look at this further. Many members of the educational community have taken a look at this and set standards abroad. I think we can probably learn something from it. On the other hand, when it comes to the business, it is my opinion that in any case, we should always ensure practicality in public business. As a matter of fact, I think we've made quite a success of it. I think public finance law will help us do that. I think it adds to the council surveillance, to make up for the financial projects listed in the budget, the measures set up. Now I'm not saying that that song is totally perfect, but I think it's that way. [[The president calls.]] Maybe I'll get a second answer instead.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u75	Thank you. A senator is very opposed. It was interesting to hear one particular thing, i.e. What she said in investments was that it was private investments that men did not have an accurate perspective on whether there were plans rather than government. You can see, therefore, the opposite is the case when public funds are spoken of in the public business of a verse of public money that goes to private service agreements. It is closely followed. Granted, people may at times drive ahead of time. But what I'm talking about, and I don't really think the government financial law will help us there, is not necessarily money that runs to the business of the individual health institutions, but rather to the projects involved. I think it's especially important that we have real surveillance on it. If at any rate - it is the policy of the government to bring, on a greater scale, a private task carried out by the independent active organisations to these public bodies - it is very important that monitoring is at least as rigid as it is in the personal development system. It'll be interesting to see how we use it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u76	A respectable president. I thank you again. A senator resists. I think I will and will. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson argues that private business may be successful in many areas. But I fully agree with her on the fact that caring for assignments is no magic word. This needs special attention. It needs to be very clear the standards in this regard and clearly monitored just as it is in the case of government officials. I think it's just the ideologies behind it: when we have public money, we always have to look at it carefully. In my mind, if I have correctly understood the question, it is just as important to have a clear guide to the public institutions as well as to the projects they are doing, whether they will provide what is expected for their financial resources, as in the case of private property agencies, or any other member of the public ministry. If I've understood why. A senator was right in order to catch up on my position that we would follow the same way in ensuring the quality, efficiency, and efficiency of public business and business ventures involved by other people. I agree with that, it's something we're always supposed to be headed for.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u77	Mr. President. There is always a joy when a wide cross - political reconciliation is followed by a case held here at the General Assembly. Such peace has been gained in this important matter. First thing I want to do is thank you. Haraldsdóttir Her history with the Committee of the Committee, as well as with the whole committee for bringing the case here to a later discussion with a mutual positive committee. There's my partners, but we're nine members of the council who make this proposal. This situation is vital. It is important for the progress of the case here at the council, as well as for the advancement of the proposal, when it is due to be carried out under the Supreme Director. The minister of finance and his Ministry, that the council stands, hopefully it will be revealed to the vote, one behind this council decree. As the conclusion shows, the task will be undertaken in two ways. On the one hand, legislation and order reviews in this field. This is needed to restore and correct the setting that takes directly and indirectly to public investments of various kinds. There must be a way to make sure that the rules are modern, and in line with what has best been done in the countries we usually compare with and have achieved the best and most effective results in this area. However, it is the part of the proposal to develop knowledge and skills as well as to further research. This aspect of the matter is just as important to achieve significant results. As mentioned in the opinion of the committee, this is a long - distance race. It takes time to change our attitude and culture. Mr. President. The right thing to do is to achieve the social success that is being planned. So I want to impress on us senators, the highest. A financial minister and a financial committee to provide the financial foundation necessary. One reference work points to the success that the Norwegian have achieved in their long years of methodology. For example, it has ensured that the parallels between research and knowledge building have money to do their work under the protection of the Norwegian Ministry. Three - year contracts are made with a defined task to be carried out. That's what I think it's supposed to do here too. The message contained in this synopsis proposal is clear. We want to do more in order to ensure the quality, practicality, and effectiveness of public investments. In the coming years and decades, significant investments have to be made in many areas, and it is important that we succeed, if not hundreds, dozens of billions. At stake, there is great social benefits if we are successful in our work and take hold of the subject. I think it's our will here at the council that it will be done. I trust that this council proposal will be fulfilled and that once it has been approved it will be followed firmly by the Supreme Court. Secretary of the budget and the council all of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u78	Mr. President. Here's a proposal for a resolution adopted by the National Institute of the Westnoric Council by permission of the President: ▪ The General concluded that it would challenge the government to have an assessment of how it can be reasonably possible to establish a Western postschool in Greenland, the Faeroe Islands, and Iceland. I recommend the members of the Committee of Foreign Affairs, which has crossed this Parliament's resolution and has been contacted by the Guðjón of the Brjánsson, chairman of the Iceland Department of the Western Council, Sigurður Ólafsson, Director of the Bylgja Institute of Education and Culture, Byju the Year's Árnadóttir, secretary of the Iceland of the Western Council, and Ólafur Grétar Kristjánsson of Education and Culture. The proposal encourages the government of Iceland to make an assessment in cooperation with the Faeroe Islands and Greenland administrations in a practical way to establish a Western postschool in Greenland, the Faeroe Islands, and Iceland. The proposal is presented on the basis of the conclusions made by the Western Council No. 2/2016 approved at the annual meeting of the Council of August 22, 2016, in Qaqortoq, Greenland. An essay with the proposal includes a series of articles. To the Western Council, it is important to establish schools that help young people grow up with awareness of Western countries and the peoples as well as that Western Americans learn and learn about the culture and language of neighboring countries. The Danish postschool (e.g. efterskoler) is a role model, known in Greenland and the Faeroe Islands. Students in two postschools in Greenland are between the ages of fourteen and seventeen. They experience new things, prepare for high school, or other studies, and learn to be away from home and to learn how to help themselves. The same is true of the Faeroe Islands, but it is not uncommon for youths to go to postschool in Denmark at the end of elementary school or to spend the last few years there. At a meeting of the Committee, the Ministry of Education and Culture expressed the view that in Iceland there was no afterschool tradition and that the government's policy on the development of the education system was more likely to simplify the school system than to add a new school. Thus, governments have also communicated with the Westernological Council, so it is not the time to evaluate them as candidates. However, the Commission would like to encourage the government to look into the matter with an open mind or to examine other ways in which youths in Western countries might be able to learn and learn about the culture and language of neighboring countries. So the committee suggests that the proposal will be agreed with the following adjustment: ▪ The suggestions are as follows: The General concluded to challenge the government's evaluation of the possibility of starting a Western postschool or in other ways promoting the potential for young people in Western America to learn and learn about the culture and language of neighboring countries. Under this opinion, the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee writes, why? paritaprevir Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigurbjörn, daughter of Arni Sigurbjörn, daughter of Brítís, Haraldsdóttir of Trausti Trali Guðmundsson, Eymarsdóttir Eymar, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Logi Einarsson, Resak Brynjólfsdóttir Bryjornótttir, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gónsdotir, and Gótir K. Gunnarsdóttir's Bryndís. Sæland haland, an audience officer for the entire group. A foreign press committee, described itself as having accepted this view. As we have seen, this proposal is based on its origin in the Western Council at its annual meeting. It is customary for each country to offer one suggestion at the summit and in the vast majority if not all cases have been agreed with such suggestions. I must admit that when I first heard of this proposal for postschool, I did not have much understanding of what was involved. It will be explained because we have no tradition for such institutions. But after studying the matter a little bit and talking to my colleagues, both from the Faeroe Islands and Greenland, I realize that the postschool members count a very important part of their learning system, and especially an opportunity for young people to leave home and enjoy new things. I find the best comparison between these postschools and the People's Schools, but this is for children after they graduate from high school. After considering this case, I don't think it was quite as absurd as it was at first. However, I restate on it, and we discussed it quite significantly on the committee, that this is not a recommendation to the Icelandic government to build up or cost such schools. As we put it in this committee opinion and the adjustment made, we feel at ease. A foreign - language committee has good reason to consider this matter rather and with an open mind. Such institutions could promote even more communication between Western countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u79	A respectable president. Thank you. A member of the Parliament and an executive for this opinion of the State Department on the proposal of the Western Council on the evaluation of a Western postschool institution. This term is not for us here on the tongue, as one of our prominent men did. And it's not familiar in our school and educational environment, as the committee discussed. But this is known in many parts of the North. However, the results and adjustments adopted by a foreign - language committee are positive and upbuilding. The point of the proposal is that there is an open mind to consider the potential for young people in Western countries who have so much in common to get to know and learn about culture, employment, and language of neighboring countries. In this regard, it is almost readily available to look to the modern - day ideologies of a university that the Icelanders know well only. Specific lives have been blown into their activities in Iceland last year, e.g. On the east side, and the square example is the establishment of the University of People at Flats, which is about to begin her activities, in the bosom of the mountains of blues, where there is opportunity for education in established and Hispanic and cultural regions. So it will be exciting to see if the ideas that the Western Council had in mind are not possible to develop and continue to communicate effectively with our neighbors and friends.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u80	Madam President. We're here to discuss another Parliamentary decree from the Westnoric Council of Iceland, which reads with the permission of a president: The General concluded to challenge the government to explore the possibility of cooperation between Iceland, the Faeroe Islands, and Greenland on the education of fishing. Hv. The Management Board of Foreign Affairs has discussed the proposal and has been contacted by the Guðjón of the Directorship of the S.. Brjánsson, president of Iceland's Western Council, Sigurður Ólafsson, Director of the Western Council, Bylgja of the Árnadóttir, secretary of Iceland's Western Council, and Ólafur Grétar Kristjánsson from the Ministry of Education and Culture. The proposed government of Iceland is encouraged to investigate the possibility of cooperation between Iceland, the Faeroe Islands and Greenland on education in the fishing industry. The proposal is presented on the basis of the conclusions made by the Western Council No. 2/2017 approved at the annual meeting of the Governing Body on September 1, 2017, here in this hall. An article will include the following: ... tothe WesternNorthern countries already have good cooperation in the marine waters and that with increased cooperation in the fields of the marine industry, countries could share experience and knowledge of fish farming. Education in fish technology, which helps improve the use of marine products and encourages innovation in the industry, for example. To serve at the University of Fish Technology in Iceland, Grindavík, U.S.A., Narsaq, Greenland, and High School in the Faeroe Islands. As a result of land exchange, a wide range of basic education could be provided in fishing, fishing technology, and quality control, focusing on training. Extensive education in the fishing road is, for example, an education in the fishing field. to serve as a bachelor in fishing education at the University of Akureyri, a diplomat in fish technology at the ARTEK ▪ Fishing Center in Sisimiut, and the United Nations Marine School for Disease Control, Iceland. The Commission states that cooperation in the education of fishing can benefit all three countries in which they have expertise in different seaside regions of matter. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted unchanged. Under the committee, the president's publications were written. Foreign Director Arlag Þorgerður Sigurbjörnsdóttir, Þórtr Katrín Gunnarsdóttir Guðmundsson, Trausti Tragri Guðmundsson, Álfheiður Eymarsdóttir, Logi Einar Einarsson, Brynjólfsdóttir Björfjörnóttir, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gjörnsdonsdótir, Gónu Bragi Sveinsson and who stands here, Bryndi Haraldsdóttir. Besides, Inga Sæland, an audience officer has said that he approves of this. I would also like to mention in my speech that this is a proposal made by the Western Council at the annual meeting. In the fall, and then it was the first time in our councilroom. We in the Iceland Department stressed this matter, and it was approved at this main meeting. I think we've all agreed that if we could work together somewhere well, it would definitely be in the realm of sea espionage and education.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u81	A respectable president. I'll agree with this fine concierge that came along, like what happened. A senator mentioned, from the Western Council Department of Iceland less than a year ago, at the annual meeting held by the Western Council in the International House and was memorable and enjoyable. I find this suggestion very well-inhabited. If cooperation is not possible in this area, there may be little discussion of cooperation. These three countries of friends have often been discussed with us on which to cooperate, and I think that these are one of the issues that are completely out of place, that we can impart knowledge and instruction between these three marine populations in the north of the Atlantic to productive fishing grounds. It is important to increase the value of fishing roads in these three countries to learn from one another. We have powerful schools of education here in Iceland, but in Greenland and the Faeroe Islands, there are also educational institutions that offer mines that turn toward fishing, so I find this very exciting. It'll be fun watching how we do it. In the Western Council's Iceland Department, there will probably be a continuation of a discussion on how it is done, we will keep a close eye on it. I wish this will work out as best we can so that we can use our good college schools and high school in this field as regards exchange students and that knowledge and education in the seas flow between these three peoples.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u82	A respectable president. I'm here to celebrate this fine and important convolutation proposal and to thank the Western Council's Iceland Department for putting this case first. I believe there's something very important going on here. Though it is not a lengthy connotation proposal, it is much larger than it looks. I'd also like to mention that it may be amazing how brief we are on these matters here on the land according to the knowledge and experience we have, and considering how large the fishing road has been and how important to us here. If you're right about this Parliamentary arrangement, I think this cooperation will develop, grow, and grow. These schools talk a lot today. If it's put on a little formal government title I think it'll raise the case to the next level and increase the road of all these schools in three friends' countries. I have had the privilege of coming to the affairs and sharing in building up the Fish Testimony School in Grindavik. There's been an enormous number of pioneering to get them to school. It has to be said, as it is, that it has been an incredibly difficult journey to accept that this is a special fishing school, Iceland's Fish Technology School, which operates cross-blownly with all high schools that want to live in Iceland and support it. The way this school has been built up is exemplary so that it does not have to cost a very expensive local academic position but has been a good cooperation with the article. The article is worthy of great commendation for participating in this building, how to conduct this important training in this country in a very practical and efficient way, and considering this, this has been an amazing challenge. If such suggestions come true, I think she will raise the study so that it will be easier to build up. Based on the great experience and knowledge that these countries have in using the sea resources, we will be able to study well and thrive on this experience and knowledge for a great deal of progress, innovation, and value. In the fishing industry, we have already found that we are making great use of this knowledge in the technology industry that grows here. I think Iceland's newest thing is in the fishing road. I don't think a lot of jobs have as much innovation as they do on the fishing grounds. That certainly adds up. It is vital that we unite in making use of the knowledge, experience, and energy that these nations have together. I'm thinking about even taking the cooperation further into the Arctic Council. These countries of the north have much to do in other countries, beyond the Arctic, with a lot of knowledge and experience that we can move out and also teach other countries how to use their resources more fully. Therefore, I welcome the proposal and my vow fully supported the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u83	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The beginning of Bryndís's daughter's Haraldsdóttir over the talk and the opinion of the State Department on the Western Council's proposal to cooperate in Western education. Enriching knowledge and skill in this vast industry of all Western nations is a worthy challenge. To increase respect for the wealth in the sea, to increase the value and development of construction, to meet demands and habits, and to enjoy food from different markets is a challenge. Our mission is to create and industrialize the fishing industry linked to a worthwhile place. Putting the article on a ledge with an important food product and creating a positive and exciting work environment for well - educated people is an exciting subject waiting ahead of the corner. What grand assignments and deserving ones these are, indeed, with realistic goals! There is already considerable cooperation, as we have seen. The soil, so to speak, is fertile. There's a lot of interest in this area among the people of our neighbors and friends. In this country, we have cooks who have very serious thoughts about this situation. Then we're supposed to activate, increase the value and stability in this important industry, and so the Western Council wants to contribute.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u84	Madam President. I wanted to come up here to celebrate this committee party as well as the Synod of the Westnoric Council. This is a big opportunity to share in the experiences of Iceland when it comes to fishing, whether it is the process of producing or fishing itself, or how we direct our system, which is less exemplary in many ways. The proposal lists a number of schools that can truly be considered. It speaks of advanced education in the fishing field, e.g. has been offered a BS study in fishing education at the University of Akureyri, a dieme study in fish technology at the ARTEK ▪ Fishing Center in Cimiut, and the United Nations Marine School for Disease Control, Iceland. I would like to take advantage of this opportunity to call attention to the fancy college program available at the University of West School at Isfjordor in cooperation with the University of Akureyri. It is, in fact, there. this is a master's course at sea and coastal zones, an international multi-disciplinary resource - management master degree. On the University Hall website it says, with permission of presidents: After study, students know the many valuable resources of sea and coast, understand their nature, and have developed methods and abilities to control the sustainable use of resources. Also, it begins in the fall, if I recall correctly, global, cross-cutting studies in marine societal studies, which I think will be an exciting study in which sea areas will be placed just in the Arctic and Arctic waters, although the science may have a wide range of appeals. This study will mainly be based on the content and methods of sociology, economics, human rights and planning, and after study, students should have come to understand the potential and limitations of development based on the North Atlantic and have developed methods of providing and controlling their development. I think it's also an enormous opportunity for Western cooperation in marine education, to look to what's being done in the West, and to cooperate with the University of Akureyri, as I said. I hope that there will be a review of that, too, because, in particular, the marine and coastal management mines have yielded tremendous success and have led students all over the world to learn from the experience of Icelanders in marine and coastal systems and to share this experience across the world that I think is unique on national level.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u85	A respectable president. I want to thank them. Parliamentaries who have participated in the discussion of this synopsis proposal. It's nice to hear so much support and interest from her. Councilmen. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Flandrafjörður Elisabeth's Elíasdóttir for her inputs, and of course the study offered on the West will also be considered. I also want to know that today there are elections in Greenland. One of the big cases in the campaign is education. As we know, Greenlanders live under very special circumstances. It's a big country. It's a tough passage. When we here complain that good service and good study are difficult in many parts of the country, we can imagine what this is like in Greenland. They have struggled with difficulties in this regard. Therefore, I believe this council resolution proposal and increased cooperation in this field is an opportunity for all nations. Of course, we have every reason to be very proud of our fishing activities and the knowledge that exists in our lands, especially in educational institutions that have been specialized in this area. I have no doubt that we have much to offer. I also think we can learn from the nations. For example, I would like to mention that the Faeroe Islands are very early in fish farming. Last year, we from Iceland's Western Institute to the Faeroe Islands were visited by a novel factory, a very large, large factory in the field of fish farming. It was also interesting to see how many devices there were from Icelandic manufacturing agencies. Like what? paritaprevir Will Árnason entered as a new creation in the fishing grounds is expected to be our largest stage. One of the country's basic workplaces is marine soil, where we have a very large number of fancy companies in many parts of the country that have taken on innovation in this field. I have no doubt that we have much to offer in that regard. I had the opportunity to go to Cisimiut in my time and visit the state of ARTEK, which we call here, which is there some kind of university bridge. It has a fish - technology center and, for example, has one. Communicate with Danish college. There you see clear opportunities to make up the University of Akureyri, who has been developing excellent studies and also working with them at West Fjords, we have to expand it even more. It should be possible to develop cooperation in this field. Also, it is a pleasure to hear a representative of the Northern Council express interest in taking this idea into consideration. It is reason to also mention that the Western Council recently received an audience at the Arctic Council. The Western Council should, just as we Icelanders in our international community, look primarily to the factor where we have something to offer. I think these nations clearly have considerable contribution when it comes to fishing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u86	A respectable president. We'll discuss a council proposal from the Westnoric Department of Iceland. It reads, with President's permission: The Council of the United States concluded to challenge the government to hold a conference on the state of Western England (Island, the Faeroe Islands, and Greenland) in the new reality of international politics. I would like to commend the members of the State Department, but the Committee has discussed this synopsis and has been appointed by Guðjón Directorate of the Bylgja Árnadóttir, Ólafsson, the secretary of the Iceland Department of the S. National Council, and Jörundur Valtýsson and the State Department's Auðunn Atlason. With the proposal, the government of Iceland is encouraged to use itself, along with the National Governments of the Faeroe Islands and Greenland, to hold a joint conference on Iceland, the Faeroe Islands, and Greenland's new international government. The proposal is presented on the basis of the unanimous resolution of the Western Council No. 3/2016 approved at the annual meeting of the Council of August 22, 2016, in Qaqortoq, Greenland. An article will include the following: Until the end of the Cold War, the three Western countries became increasingly peripheral in international politics. Russia's controversy with NATO and China's interest in Western countries have redirected people to Western North countries of international politics. The Committee has a positive view that there will be a conference for the state of Iceland, the Faeroe Islands, and Greenland in the new international reality. Such a conference can be organized in various ways, e.g. in collaboration with the university community and institutions within the world that focus their attention on international, national, and northern sectors. The committee does not believe that such conferences have better place in the hands of the Western government than they do their councils or their educational community or in the cooperation of these parties. Such conferences could even be held in the name of the Western Council with the powerful support of the Council. So the committee suggests that the proposal will be accepted with the following adjustment, and the proposal, by permission of the president: ▪ The General concluded to investigate the possibility of hosting a conference on Iceland, the Faeroe Islands, and Greenland in the new reality of international politics in cooperation with the Faeroe Council and the Greenland National Parliament and the National Institutes of Education in the Western countries. Under this opinion, everyone writes a column. Councilmen seated on the State Department: Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gunarsson, Trausti Traggi Guðmundsson, Álfheiður Eymarsdóttir, Bræri Haraldsdóttir, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Einarsson, Resak Brynjólfsdóttir Brynjolfótir, and Þorgerður Katrín Gunnarsdóttir. At the same time, we accept this by the audience of the Gangs, Inga Sæland. Like what? This conclusion, as some of the conclusions discussed here tonight, is likely to have been noted by members of the council, only in their age, i.e. It was approved at the annual meeting of the Governing Body in August 2016, but it could not be submitted or the other conclusions made until the last assembly. I think that this very matter has even more to do now, but it may have been, but obviously, members of the Western Council have been concerned about this. The Foreign Committee suggests that this is not directly addressed to the governments as established by the proposals provided by the Western Council, which is actually written into the Western Council's found releases that the conclusions adopted at its annual meetings are placed before the Council and usually with the premise that national governments are commissioned to follow them. Each annual meeting receives each national rap group from its government about how it has been achieved with the agreed resolutions. In this case we suggest that this will be more on the hands of the Western Council itself or its Iceland and with assistance from the local council. I hope that the Parliament's resolution proposal will be adopted, and then I think both the Western Council and the Council Presidency Committee will have to consider some way to implement it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u87	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the Commission's opinion of the Western Council's proposal to establish a conference on the status of the Western Nations in the new reality of international politics. True, the proposal was adopted at the main meeting of the Governing Body, not here in Reykjavík, but at the president's headquarters in 2016. It's a pleasure that the committee generally supports the idea. While a federal committee may be warning that the United Nations Parliament is directly involved, it emphasizes that in this area theological institutions of the Western countries are linked with the project, and this is only to support the setting. As a result of this transition by the State Department and a change in proposal, the resolution is expected to be quickly accepted by the Allied Council and, therefore, slowly on the scene of the Western Council to continue winning the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u88	Madam President. Plastic rises in the discussion of these days. It is appropriate that the Western Council arrange for the General Assembly to prepare a judicial hearing to treat the council. It is the traditional process of a form of approval from the Western Council to the three Parliaments. It's about plastic in the ocean and different from what has been seen, i.e. In the city, pick up plastics and blue army cleaning beaches are plastic in the ocean, especially microplastics, difficult targets. Thus, the challenge of the Western Council is a warrant for interpretation of microplastic studies in marine organisms in the North Atlantic. It is a study of this dangerous plastic and other plastic spills. Now I'm going to explain the highest opinion. Foreign Affairs. The Commission has discussed the matter and has been contacted by the Directors of the S. Brjánsson, president of Iceland's Western Council, Sigurður Ólafsson, CEO of the Western Council, Bylgja of the Árnadóttir's Eve, secretary of the Western National Council, and Hugi Ólafsson from the Environment and Resource Ministry. With the proposal, the Iceland government is encouraged to collaborate with the Faeroe and Greenland administration of microplastic studies in marine organisms and the spread of plastic pollution in the North Atlantic. The proposal is presented on the basis of the conclusions made by the Western Council No. 3/2017 approved at the annual meeting of the Governing Body, September 1, 2017, in Reykjavík. This report includes: Emphasize the position of a fishing plant as basic work in the Western Pacific and the importance of protecting marine resources. Plastic pollution at sea has threatened marine ecosystems and can have long - term effects on marine life and thus on land supply. The need for increased testing of the presence and location of microplastics in the marine food chain and the consequences. Governments also need to take measures to reduce contamination caused by a variety of plastics on a scale larger than microplastics and its impact on the environment. The Commission agrees with the Western Council's challenge to the government to prepare and start cooperation with the National Governments of the Faeroe Islands and Greenland, in accordance with the content of the Parliamentary arrangement. At the same time, the Commission wants to justify the view that cooperation is most effective for a period of time by focusing most of its work on microplastic research in organisms in the ocean along the three countries. At the same time, it must be investigated and determined in what ways to counteract such contamination. For studies on the spread of plastic pollution in the North Atlantic, as requested, the Committee considers and states that the three nations must seek wide cooperation with these seas and make good use of information about plastic pollution in the seas. Plastic pollution studies in the North Atlantic are a time and money - consuming project, and three smallest nations have been identified in this part of the world, but extremely urgent, as any measures against plastic pollution have now become. The committee is united and therefore suggests that the proposal be accepted. Finally, however, various international institutions and organizations may work or plan to work on the same goal. This is also one of the objectives of a cooperation agreement with the current government here in Iceland. All of this is done in order to overcome this immediate disaster. Under the heading, all publications are the highest. Foreign Committee: Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Eymarsdóttir Eymarsdóttir, Bríti Haraldsdóttir, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Logi Einarsson, Resak Brynjólfsdóttir Brynjolfótir, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gótnsótir, and Þorgerður K. Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. Inga Sæland, an officer of the Gangs, expresses his consent to this. Madam President. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u89	A respectable president. I'm here to celebrate the council resolution and to support its approval at the General Assembly. In many respects, plastic is a typical, perhaps symbolic product of the 20th century, just as old, initially appears at the beginning of the 20th century. Wonders, amazingly wealthy and comfortable, gradually cleared out other materials for all occupations and designs and production. Since then, our 21st - century work is to determine how this material really works on our environment, what the consequences are, and how we deal with them. To refer to the well - known song of the good Gyrðir Elíasson's son, by permission of the president, we have lived in the golden age of the plastic bag to be seen. It's over now. However, there is a long distance from the removal of the plastic. It is more about the entire earth. It flows through the oceans, with remarkable light and so strong that it will not be destroyed. There is no respect for land, no matter where it goes into the sea, there is a wide spread, like the song of Jóhann the Sigurjónsson of Sigurde. It has been reported that up to the risk of developing more plastics in the ocean than fish in the year 2050. There is reason for the Icelanders to pay particular attention to this, since the land of the surrounded sea and the nation lives on the sea's gifts. The clearance of pollution and waste from human activities should be a priority for the nation, and long ago it is generally spoken of as taking in clear water management policies and resources and the dangers of these resources both in transport, by oil processing and waste. The nations of the world are waking up. Many countries have become aware of this and other areas of the environment. It is no longer a matter of any human's saying that for a long time, the water takes over for us that the sea is not the self - destruction of nature. Life on earth itself depends on the health of the seas, and health of the seas includes. Depends on how we humans associate with it. We do not see this awakening particularly among the public here in Iceland. A week goes by before we notice some kind of effort to clean up the environment. There are groups of volunteers around the shores and other fields and pick up some plastic scraps that will be their way. This is great. These efforts and strong awareness of our environmental impact and responsibility will not be properly praised. But the best thing would be that this plastic wasn't even there. It would be preferable if we were to reduce the amount of plastic garbage falling, both at sea and also in land functions, e.g. Building and fishing and agriculture, to be listed as job projects, could greatly reduce the use of plastics and inadequacy of this material once it has served its alleged purpose. To not forget that the choice would be, of course, if the General Assembly would agree to a political arrangement that I have proposed to ban the use of plastic bags in store use and manufacturers and importers made it necessary to mark the products in which plastic particles are found. Plastic pollution is currently one of the growing threats to the health of the sea. In January 2016, a plastic policy was adopted in the European Union, which particularly targets the pollution of the oceans by plastics and plastics. In fact, not everyone has gone to the grave with the influence of plastic particles on the environment and animals, nor has the effect of increased plastic content in the food chain on humans. However, studies indicate that there is good reason for concern. It can take plastic up to 400 years to disappear and dissolve, but it does not say that it will be eliminated from plastic particles, microplastic particles, plastic particles that can penetrate the ecosystems everywhere, with unsurpassed consequences for the vital health and for sea creatures and for humans. Already, research has shown that plastic particles are in drinking water, on average, one piece of plastic per ten litres of water. It was recently reported that about 80% of the garbage collected at the Mediterranean Sea was plastic particles, a large proportion of which come from a badly purified waste water. We are in danger, Mr. Honorable President, the planet will become plastic nets. Clearly, the time has come for such activities to take action. We need to reduce the use of plastics wherever possible. At the same time, there is a need to investigate the impact of plastics on the environment around us and to look for ways to reduce them where possible. This proposal for the government to start cooperation with national administrations in the Faeroe Islands and Greenland for the study of microplastics in marine organisms and the spread of plastic pollution in the North Atlantic is a step forward. I'm very supportive.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u90	Madam President. Thank you. An authority to present to us the Commission's opinion of the State Department as well as its coverage of the Western Council's proposal to investigate microplastic studies in marine organisms approved in the North Atlantic at the annual meeting of the Council last September. The need for research on this fundamental issue is highlighted in public fields, in the media, and in the local community at this time. The opinions presented in the National Committee's Committee of State Affairs and the scope of the studies at the outset seem realistic and supports the person being approached by that kind of approach. Therefore, it should be welcomed that the Foreign Affairs Committee responds positively to the Western Council's proposal and suggests that it will be accepted as unchanged. Madam President. The proposal is expected to succeed here at the Council. Then it is the site of the Western Council to carry the matter forward and to look for the conclusions that are appropriate.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-24-54.u91	A respectable president. I wanted to get involved in this conversation. It is a pleasure to hear what all of us here agree on this important matter regarding the health of our major resources, the ocean. This may not be the least of the reasons why I believe it is important for the Westnoric nations to merge on this. I agree, Guðmundsson, that there are many organizations and many countries working on these issues. Perhaps these are the kingdoms that are not the most proud and most capable of being studied, but I especially consider them to be advocates of the health of the ocean. I think it's important that our ocean research agencies investigate the matter, as it were, that they keep their minds on the research done in this field, study them and speak to us about the sea, as it were, on a global level. I have found myself in my work for the Western Council, but also in other international activities, that what we say is very important. I have the capacity to refer to the European Union Protocol, which is a natural large and broad plan for research and innovation and other things, and Icelanders have full access to it. When Malta was sitting there, they put much emphasis on what is called the English form of economy and the blue economy, and it came into the frame of the program. It is only natural that the emphasis on the Kingdom will change. It may be that when it is not a nation that has the same amount of emphasis on water, the emphasis may not be so high on that aspect. I think so, for example. that our voices in Iceland are important when discussing the importance of our intensive research fund and work on the health of the ocean. I welcome this synopsis and just how positive it is for members of the council, but I also agree with the viewpoints that it is, of course, a huge case, and we need to discuss it more often and in other contexts in this regard.
