ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u1	A respectable president. I want to thank the Secretary of Foreign Affairs on behalf of the highest. President and w. For members of the Parliament, an understanding of the fact that the extent of the report requested is far more than generally used for reporting requests on the basis of Article 54. Parliamentary law. The decision was to take on more detailed employment than was expected and settled within the rules, so the foreign minister appointed a task force on August 30. to win the report. The group was already employed, and he appointed the minister of foreign affairs to three well - educated individuals who have much knowledge of these matters, i.e. Bjarnason, former minister, chairman of the group, Kristrún Heimisdóttir and Bergþóra Halldórsdóttir. The service group will receive 12 months to report and will have started with great force. He has held five meetings in one month and has handled ten experts already. It is appropriate to make a thorough and careful assessment of Iceland's membership into the contract after 25 years of its implementation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u2	Mr. President. I thank the Minister for the information he's offering on the matter. I would like to use this opportunity to make a reimburse this proposal, with the goal of keeping the case, as it is called, in the proper application procedure. The matter is totally unchanged, but it adds a little bit of text where the point is tore up that I am now explaining.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u3	Mr. President. I allow me to express my deep satisfaction in the way of work. Secretary of state has been in charge of this. It's important that we do well. If that means we have to take longer to review the benefits and defects of the EEA, then we will. The main issue is the project, the report, the study, in the very good hands of people who know these matters through and through. I believe it is important for the council to show that they trust in the process that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has set up and the people who have been called to work; they need room and support on the part of the council for work. I have no doubt that we will receive our report for a detailed discussion. I could use some. At the same time, I'd like to say that I was surprised to see some members of the Independence Party on this report request. I ask: Don't the Independence Party members trust the committee that is now working on the assessment, which is extremely important, on the EEA community? I think it's important that we give that committee space, opportunity, and peace to receive the report. We will then take it here for a material and detailed discussion in due time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u4	Mr. President. It's all a big deal. The same sort of request was adopted during the last assembly. The discussion was very clear, including on the part of what is spoken here, that it would be absolutely impregnable to receive a report request of the magnitude then submitted at that time. A very strong warning against such an attack was given. However, a foreign minister took the matter seriously and in his own hands and has arranged it in an excellent way. I honestly don't understand what's going on. A senator and members of Parliament who are now involved. Are they asking for two reports now? I can't figure it out. This is not to increase the respect of the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u5	Mr. President. I make a sound mostly in an effort to figure out the Generals'work on such matters. On the request adopted during the last session, such as a second report request from what happened. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví the son of Gunnarsson, as it were, so that the ministers of the matter, I in the case of the worse. paritaprevir The son of Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, and the chief. Secretary of state in the case of what? paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Izz has sent letters to the assembly. We revealed that we feel that the project is so important that we need some time. We have described what work is being done and what process is involved. So I don't quite understand why the Council re-enacts, in the case of this request, a report request in the process. I don't understand the point of that, chief. Mr President, if I may be so bold as to ask myself, " Is this not discussed in the field of the presiding committee and what? ' Party of shapes. I don't think that makes sense, tops. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u6	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with it as the ultimate. The prime minister said just now. I also have a request that did not complete before the end of the last assembly. I was told, from the members of this council procedure here, that in order to finish it formally, I would have to submit it again. It is a formality that the request has to be submitted again and that the Council has to vote again on the same request as when approved. That's very strange. In this case, it just seems to be a formality and we need to tick in the box--which is very strange, I must say. Perhaps it would be advisable to change the order of Congress in a way that doesn't happen again.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u7	Mr. President. I believe that the representatives of the matter received the answer from the council's office that for technical reasons it would be right to do this, and without any reason, to create or make political differences. When I heard about it, I asked, and they answered that more faithful ones would be able to keep the request alive in this way, and I think it was as normal in such situations. Of course, I believe that in the case of the minister of that matter, whether it's the highest. Foreign Minister, as in this case or the highest. In another case, that a matter is being done and a good channel is involved, and further attendance of the council should be unnecessary to request the report. I think, however, that if a political thing or a political thing requires that we formally accept it, we don't have to be political about it or give some political meaning to men, some of whom I heard had. Senators do it earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u8	The president hopes that this will not be necessary for much further discussion, and we can proceed with a decision. It is relatively simple. What may seem unfathomable to the council is not at all. The main difference is that a request for a report is requested, of course, first of all that this report is being performed and that it should be made. The reimbursement of a new Senate hearing means that the report within that council will automatically become a Senate document, or the report will receive a verbal report. That's it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u9	A respectable president. First of all, I'd like to thank the General for the fine reaction to this quest, to obtain variations in the way it really is done, and I thank them for their solidarity in the payment achieved here. I recommend a bill to correct the changing of fish farms. They are No. 71/2008. The bill suggests that a marine eco-efficiency and agricultural administrator will be authorized to issue temporary licenses when there are compelling reasons for this. This will be done in a general way in an extended number of fish farming laws. The problem is that in accordance with local law, the only option of the Food Agency, in cases where a fish farm's operating permit is canceled, is to stop it immediately. Thus governments have no resources to prevent possible irreversible and unnecessary waste of value, nor do they take moderate care. With decision-making committees on Environment and Resources No. 3/2018 (Arctic Sea Farm) and No. 5/2018 (Farnalax) adopted on September 27, 2018, was shed light on the aforementioned issue of fish farming law. These decisions were canceled by the Food Organization's decision to provide the Arctic Sea Farm ehf. And far removed the shoulder of Corp. Work permit for 17,500 tons of salmon produced in seashells in Patrekfjörður and the Twelfth. The results of the Commission depend on the Commission's report on the environmental assessment of the Agency and on the opinion of the Agency on the report, cannot be a legitimate basis for the decision on the granting of the Agency. The Commission felt that this was not the case where chess had required more than one option in assessing environmental impact. It is necessary to have a comparison of environmental impacts of more costs than the legal requirement. The enterprise presented a request for a continuation of the legal effects of the Environment and Resource Commission, but the Committee did not consider themselves authorized to do so and was therefore rejected by the company's request. The proper effect of the above decisions is the fact that the Food Organization, as laid down in Article 21. c in the fish farm law, to stop the activity based on licenses to which the rulings were concerned. In view of its wording, the purpose of this policy of fish farming seems to be primarily to ensure an effective management tool if a fish farm was set up without allowing for its activities. The unreachable rule of the 21st 33th. c However, if a license fails, it is not appropriate, for one reason or another, because of the problems that have occurred to the administration of the permit. In such cases, however, there is strong evidence to do so, in the light of average - scale views and the avoidance of irreversible and possibly unnecessary waste, that governments have legally given room to place interests in the balances and to evaluate the best resources to reach the correct conclusion of the law. The image that arises in the case of the above decision-making committees of environmental and resource resources is clear that there is no scope for this assessment. The lack of such space is a problem in the present environment, and especially in the nature of the business. The purpose of this law bill is to correct this violation of the law. According to the above, there is a need to respond in the bill with the collection of permission for the Minister to version temporary access. It has a general authority to deal with such situations. Thus, the legislation does not directly define the cases currently in the decision-making committees of environmental and resource matters but is aimed at correcting the defects in the future fish farming laws. The purpose of the temporary authorisation may vary depending on the individual circumstances, including to allow an enterprise to reduce existing activities when a work permit fails, with the objective that the management will be fully off-limited. It may also be the purpose of such a permit to allow an enterprise to improve the limit of the license before re-employment or to have a run - down permit in the courts. V.E.G. President. The bill assumes that the Minister can, in the case of loss of a work permit and for rich reasons recommend, issue a license for temporary use up to ten months. Substitution application must be made by the labour holder within three weeks of the death of a ruling. The secretary should then issue a temporary application as soon as possible and no later than four weeks after the application is applied. It is conditional that a secretary's version of a business permit is temporary to be agreed on by the Food Agency. In such a review, there can be a difference. Information on the available data is provided in the preparation of the suspended permit. In this case, a food management agency can provide guidance on the possible additional conditions, if this is thought to be necessary. It is also necessary for the publication of the Commission for temporary implementation that rich reasons recommend a version of such a license. For the evaluation of the minister of this condition, it is necessary to include to consider the interests involved at each time, both financially and socially as well. Then the objective of preventing irreversible waste can also be meaningful in this context. Furthermore, it must be kept in mind that the interests of the individual may be opposites and that they must be accurately weighed in this regard. In the bill it is stated that the terms of temporary recruitment should be within the range of the unrecognised protocol. This means that the size of the license cannot be more than the suspended license. A minister is permitted to have a more materialistic license, and he must be allowed to provide additional conditions if he feels necessary. Thus, a minister may set needed requirements so that the purpose of a temporary access, such as the reduction of existing activities, can be met at temporary intervals due to improvement or the handling of a court case. It will be important for a minister to have this authority, but it depends on each incident in the way it is applied. The terms of the decision on temporary leave can be based on data obtained in the preparation of the suspended permit. Thus, a minister, when deciding to publish a temporary distribution scheme, can, including, Based on data specified in Article 8. adapts to fish farms. You can even see here. There is also information on meeting the strictest standards for fish farmers in the sea and a copy of the Agency's decision not to be evaluated or to have the Agency's opinion on the assessment of the environmental impact of the Agency, under the legislation on environmental impact assessment, No. 106/2000. Finally, it should be noted that in each case, a minister should evaluate these data in view of potential problems on the license to be canceled at the discretion of his decision for temporary implementation. It is authorised to be allowed up to 10 months, but such permission can be released to a shorter period of time. It is proper to define the duration of allowing as these maximum times. The exception is from a standard practice. It must be estimated that within ten months the MAH should be able to achieve the purpose and aim of the interim access within each case, whether to correct the limitations on the license or for any other reason. A minister is permitted to give that permission once, so that permission can be maximally valid for 20 months. Finally, it should be noted that the temporary version of a minister's license is not legalized by other governments. However, such a decision can, of course, be made under law. V.E.G. President. Finally, I would like to have this bill adjusted in a general way by means of the fish farming law for the future. The problem is, according to local law, the only option for the management of fish farms is to stop the operation. Thus governments have no resources to prevent possible irreversible and unnecessary waste of value, nor do they have moderate control. So I suggest that the bill will be following this discussion. Work committee and 2nd over.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u10	Mr. President. V.E.G. A minister said that this bill should be taken out of account on fish farms. I think it'll take a lot longer. We'll discuss the fish fire in the big context. However, I understand why the matter has been presented, and I realize that there is something that I need to do about it. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister whether it would have been possible to postpone the impact of the Commission in another way. Looks like 5th. the legislation on the decision-making committee of environmental and resource matters is referred to as having the authority to postpone the impact of the decision board. This too is mentioned in a report. I'd like to hear a little bit about it from a minister. Also, in the last sentence of the decision, by permission of the President, the decision to halt the operation of the operator is made by the Food Organization. c Song No. 71/2008 if this administrative decision is legalized to minister at 2 mg. Section 4. The law that, after the incident, can postpone the legal action of that decision. Is this not a minister's warrant, taking into account that this is the case, in order to do this only without us accepting this bill here?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u11	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. First, I agree. A senator says there's more than just the only ones in fish farms. It's obvious to me that there's going to have to be some serious penalties. The bill on this subject comes from my Ministry of this council. It is true that this is true, and it has come to the view that the committee has the right to postpone the legal action, but there are conflicting views. In this case the commission chooses to interpret its sources in a way that is not authorized. We can agree or disagree, but that is the conclusion of the committee and it is final. It's just her decision and her conclusion. There are other ways. This bill was signed by a number of lawyers as to what could be done. This led to the conclusion. It is true that the decision - making board points out that this can be done in a way that the Food Agency reports withdrawals and that it is indictable to a minister, then we have doubts and we reviewed them with lawyers. Whether such a government decision is charged with a minister is considered a matter of opinion. Among lawyers, there is a difference of opinion about this. Also, I would like to mention that it is unclear what basis a minister should postpone a court order when it is clear in law that no other option is available, clear that the purpose of decommissioning should be shut down. This led to our discussions at the Ministry with lawyers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u12	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the answer. Still, it seems to me that there were other ways of being good, and I don't feel comfortable putting ourselves in this position in the presence of resources. V.E.G. According to a minister, somehow the decision - making board was made to determine for itself whether or not she really has the legal right. I find it odd if I have a clear legal opinion that people, whether governments or institutions, can decide to say, "No, I don't think I can do this. I think we should work on this a little bit more. I'm sure most of the people in this room agree that we need to respond in some way and not cause irreversible damage, but I think we should think only about our course based on the minister's answers. Now that I'm up here, I'd like to ask, "What's the situation if it falls in nine months and confirms the decision of the Committee? "
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u13	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator again and again approach the situation. The decision-or-treating board is a completely independent administration committee. Her decisions remain, and they will not be appealed. If there is a disagreement about the interpretation and results of the Committee, then the case is simply before the court, and the Ministry has neither the will nor the authority to intervene. She has her own rights, and this is how she puts it down. I don't know what the situation will be if the conclusion is made that the decision to the courts will be passed. If the issues of the administrative aspects of the permit application have not been corrected, I expect a court of law to come to a similar conclusion. However, this raises a question that is also vital to ask, what if a court of law came to a different conclusion, i.e. would not agree with the decision - making board. So, what status are they in, closing the shop, as they say? At that time, the State will be stuck with the damaging responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u14	Chief President. Without meaning, I can completely extend the response time to the highest level. Minister as long as we get answers. But it has to be said, as it is, that the minister's answers are not clear, whether or not, after our meeting with a professional committee this morning, whether there is a direct need to go that way. I'm afraid we don't have enough clear authority to do this. I think that most people would agree to try to be moderate, try to eliminate the rights, whether in the public areas of the West or in those who have been charged with the case. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, because I understand that the pressure was on us to finish the case today, whether he agrees to drive the case through the council today. I'm very thoughtful, especially after the best answers. Minister of the environment before. The answer was very clear. Environment Minister to Senator from the west in the greater part of the government, huh? 7. Witchest. "Fall, Halla Signý's Kristjánsdóttir, that he intends to take up to three weeks in case of complaint. Are we solving the problem? Is the subject really being resolved? You need to get very clearly out of the top. High priest, therefore, is out of control. One environmental minister indicated that he was going to take three weeks to think about it. What conflicting message is this on the part of the government? Is that not enough of sending off a misleading message? That is why the question times or answers are very important. First, I would like to ask, but at the same time, it is a responsibility to have the council come into. The immediate intervention of solutions is not helpful for any business items - fish, fishing, fishing, or anything else - to build a long - term responsible image. That is why we must be careful. [[The president calls.]] We at the council must learn from experience. We must take the time to do things right. [[The president calls.]] We too may be at ease, not in the case, but we will be careful. This is a huge deal. [[The president calls.]] We want to build up fish farming in a responsible way for the future, so we want to set standards, the highest. President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u15	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. It was an informative speech. There is no conflicting message from the government on this matter, a long distance from it. I mentioned it in my history, according to Article 21. c In fish breeding law, the Food Institute has to stop the operation. How long should we wait for the Agency to act on the laws established by the council? That's what I'm talking about. A senator with any ideas for that? How long should it be given? On the one hand, the distinction between personnel authorized by Environment Ministers - it is built into the law, a respectable senator, sharp. Senator, please notice. It is built into the work permit that the Environment Minister has the authority here to request. As a result, he can already do so today, if not already under way, prepare clearly in what he will do with the work that he is going to do in view of the loss of his license. A marine minister has no such authority, they are not under law.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u16	Mr. President. I understand the highest. A minister is angry at the answers as high as possible. Environment Minister granted earlier. [[Up front.]] V.E.G. A sea chief is trying to straighten out the situation, and I now expect him to be trying to do so, even though he is not destroying one or any rights. There's a bad message in society. I think, however, of the fact that the Environment Minister, he has the warrant, certainly, he can postpone, has not yet told the Congress, has not been made clear. Will he apply the warrant or not? That is why it matters to us, whether we should just take the day into it and drive the case through or take a little more time to be careful here within the council. Is that too much to ask? Is it? I want to know what the Environment Minister is going to do. If he's going to take three weeks, I expect the council to take a little bit of pressure so that we can be careful and bring responsible laws out of the area where it is long-term and built up by sector, wherever it may be.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u17	A respectable president. Here we have a position that, in all likelihood, has taken some action on the part of the government. They're in the form of a bill. Certainly, but there is a general warrant for the minister of the local lawsuit party to respond to the situation as of this. I get it. So a senator is expected to wait until an environmental minister tells us how he will handle the situation on his side? As minister and responsible secretary of this seminary, I am asking for the council that the minister of the jury be granted permission to begin with the task waiting for the council anyway.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u18	What will the Environment Minister do?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u19	I'm not answering for environmental ministers, okay? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u20	Is he stopping the case?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u21	I can't answer for him.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u22	Mr. President. Although I am well aware of the importance of this, I feel as confused as the members of the Assembly Hall. Admittedly, I find that nowhere in the language is the highest. The environmental factors on this matter are discussed by marine dignitaries and agricultural ministers. He certainly speaks of the need to speed up all treatments. That's a lot of interests. Since we need to look for harmful effects, we need to act. But there has been no discussion of environmental protection or the environmental element, which, of course, is a huge part of the matter. That's exactly why you're only a little thinking now about why you have to drive the case through the council at a flash speed, in a 24 hour, and far from being careful, I don't know why. A professional health committee has, e.g. has been contacted by environmental experts. It is hardly to be remembered that it was taken by an observer who was to monitor fish farming in this area for two weeks to arrive at the site of an accident. V.E.G. Also, a minister did not talk about the Rapporteur or who should be involved. I want to think about it. I want to pray to the highest level. A minister might ask himself, " Do I have no thought of any information about environmental matters when it comes to fishing? '
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u23	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. Of course, I've been thinking about it a lot, and at the Ministry we're working on projects that are involved in trusting the basis for monitoring a fish - fire Food Agency. There is no need for that. Monitoring is not good enough, and this should be absolutely frank. But there is another project. It's a very limited bill available. If we look at the environmental event only, I have so far put much emphasis on the opinions and work carried out by the EEA. It has published its opinion of the decision made by the Committee and is basically of the opinion that it does not agree with the decision of the Commission that the opinion of the Agency on environmental impact has not been a legitimate basis for decision on granting a decision. Similarly, in the EEA's opinion, it specialises and considers it very important to appear, that this is not a matter of pollution prevention as such. It's not about the carrier tolerance of the Marine Research Institute. It's not about risks because of the genetic mixture. Everything's fine. What is it about? It is a matter of judgment by the Commission on formal environmental assessment options. From that administrative defect my bill is trying to improve. How unacceptable it is that governments do not have legitimate means to be on such a position and to take a moderate measure in handling such cases!
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u24	Mr. President. I would like to thank the Minister very much for this answer. It is now that my administrative heart is deeply bleeding in this case and I agree with the Supreme Court. Minister, this is a big problem. For example, there is a delay in the right action that is a big hobby of mine, because it is not correct that was observed at the highest level. The minister who refused simply dismissed that request, stating: "A minister must handle it. In saying that if the Food Institute stopped the operation, this procedure and minister should be delayed, the court action of the procedure should be delayed. Therefore, I must already ask for a general procedure, such as a legal procedure, which is so extensive, that is to be run through the council without a calmness of mind, without the proper attention of the members of Congress, without our being introduced or called to experts: Why not just go into this? [[The president calls.]] A minister earlier said that the food clinic is about to stop the operation. Why, then, is it not simply a matter of delaying the right effect of these actions so that we do not need to undergo a general legal procedure that is irreversible? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u25	A respectable president. Songs like this are not irreversible. It just needs to be changed by law if there is not enough experience of it. But concerning the proposal or idea made by the Commission, to the Minister every time the right effect, I spoke up against him. Einarsson In view of the lawyers we consulted, it is the case with a number of maligned people who may not be guilty of wrongdoing. First, they have failed to agree on whether a administrative decision was a judicial decision that would be charged with a minister, i.e. The decision of the decision by the Committee. Second, it is clear that that that way would not resolve the events that have come up and will arise. On the contrary, the only possibility of stopping activity would be the Food Agency. Third, they count it very uncertain what the Minister should be able to delay the legal influence of the unchanged law-enforcement decision, which is clearly defined by the current law of shutting down function. These are the arguments my lawyers and my jurists have brought, and I agree with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u26	Mr. President. I wish for the highest. The secretary of the environment will be present for this discussion and will come here and answer any questions regarding the environment. Clearly, the matter we are considering is about two different agencies. I'm asking to the highest. the secretary of the environment will be present for this discussion. As we heard in the past, it's a matter of opinion. We need the highest power. Minister of the environment for this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u27	V.E.G. President. I'd really like to agree with this tip and wish why. paritaprevir It's a Oddný new Harddoer's Harðardóttir about having the highest. Environment Minister here in the hall; if we are to resolve the matter so that a clear message is received into society, we must get an answer, and that clear answer, from the Environment Minister. It is true to assume that if a professional committee meets here later today, I have also requested that the Environment Minister meet with the Committee. Of course, I'll revise it if he's made a clear answer in the previous hall. It also needs answers from the highest point of view. Secretary of the seas and, in fact, the President of the Parliament, whether to run this case today. If so, it is clear that the program needs to be reviewed. It is not acceptable that we who are on a job committee and have prepared talks about transport, that huge interest issues, are working on fish farms at the same time. It's naturally completely excluded.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u28	No such thing exists. The message will be sent to the highest. Environment and resource secretary that his presence is requested during the discussion. In this way the president hopes that she will be able to continue.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u29	Mr. President. I'm very sorry to discuss this huge matter without even the highest degree. The minister of the environment is in the hall. Although this isolated intervention is at the highest level. In his view, a marine dignitary and agricultural minister does not consider anything to be environmentally relevant, as do so many others involved in this major matter not all agree. It is a huge environmental, social, and commercial environment. It is also health issues, so perhaps the whole government should sit here and discuss it. It is true that fishing is being discussed in the government covenant, which says, by permission of a president: "Figset is a growing industry that has opportunities for work development but has to be developed with extreme caution in line with scientific advice so that biodiversity will not be threatened. At the same time as the growth of this article, the necessary laboratory and normal monitoring of environmental impacts must be ensured. As fish fuel grows in the spine, a future payment plan for the permit is needed. Mr. President. This matter is simply not simple, and it may have been revealed to us primarily in the speech of the Supreme Court. Seafood and agricultural ministers, as well as his answers. It's all so confusing, there are so many if in this case and in this bill that the person here really doesn't realize how we should be able to handle it. How will we in the future justify having completed this complex matter in this way? What example are we setting for the future, Mr. President? In this unique case, there is certainly no discussion of the subject of the case in the decision-making committee of environmental and resource matters. There's nothing wrong with the subject, it's all legal. Do we have any assurance that this will always be so? Do we have any safety or any guarantee that we will not be facing some serious damage where a minister's cell phone will be called and asked to secure temporary permits while the boys and I later handled the case in the next case where something else happens? How can we be sure of this? In this matter, as mentioned earlier, there is no great loss. Regarding the legal procedures here, we are being asked to drive through the council at this rate, once more often, Mr. President, this is not the case, but these are the laws that are to be taken by general, not by specific, but by general. This should apply for the rest of your life. I am very worried that there is no specific procedure in this particular case, as shown earlier in my counter-reguage. Privacy is a single procedure that is directed on a particular matter. In effect, we can tell ourselves that this is not a natural problem as we know it. Of course, we don't know that perfectly, but at least On the basis of our decisions, they are not based on some spectacular damage done or, for example, some. Neglect. This is not why the work permit is being canceled. These are legal aspects of the failure of the operators to meet any criteria for answering certain questions when applying for the permit. Then maybe we'll come back to the administration, Mr. President. Of course, the management board has a high level of direction and a high level of research. As a result, it seems that there has been a miscommunication in the matter of instruction. As you read through all this decision, it's at least that. it was not spoken of, nor was it mentioned that the concerned operators had nothing to do with this information. They were to know this for themselves or to feel that this was the condition of the permits. It is most unfortunate that governments and governments should encourage people in this way, if it is right, to start a operation, provide specific information, say that such information is satisfactory, encourage people to work, and then turn away when the months pass. It's completely unacceptable, but it doesn't change because this is the situation in this unique case, that this is not being put out, so I repeat myself over and over again, the way the concerned operator operates, it's something legal. Rather, I find it hard to put general laws into the future, since we are actually so badly protected from any kind of extramortem. I don't think it's a good message to the operator in this sector or other sectors that the operators can really trust that they will be given a release, not just for ten months, but 20 months, to correct something they might have done before. I don't think it's a very promising message for the future. I think, although this case should go to the employment committee, it is necessary that the employment committee, whose head was put in front of it, the request of the Environment and Transport Committee for this matter so that an environmental and transport committee can be called to him, for his committee, some of the bodies that are experts in fish farms and environmental factors. I'm asking for the head of the pro board, anyway. paritaprevir This is taken into account by Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, who stands in the side room. That's all there was to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u30	A respectable president. I'm just going to say the opposite to a speech. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir. It says that we are not dealing with natural hazards. Rather, we are dealing with legal issues that need to be handled. Hv. A senator himself said that there is nothing on the business. That is why I say, " Why do we have to think about this for so long if we just have to adjust that our work can continue? ' It's actually a Food Institute that should have gone today and stopped this production. This is the groundwork we need to respond to. We can do so in this simple way - in order to enable a moderate measure of control, which is pretty active in all respects, but in this respect it has completely been forgotten - and allowed the companies to continue their work. Today they have illegal activity. And there's fish out there. What are we going to do besides this? I think it's an attempt to fix the previous failure of the counsellor.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u31	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. Yeah, it's a legal thing. All this decision-making committee of environmental and resource resources is legal. He is not involved in the matter. I didn't say that there was no environmental problem with fish farming or that I didn't make any comments about fish farming here. I said, however, that the decision to make a decision was not to cancel a business permit on that basis. It's not the same as the one here thinks it's all right. What I have been suggesting, however, is that there is a postponing of the legal effect that is also legal, so that the function can continue instead of going to such general legalization. It's as good as what. paritaprevir The bell of Halla's Kristjánsdóttir is fond of country's settlements, and I think she likes the nature of the country that she doesn't care about how she's going about it. Hence, it is important that we deal with matters in a way that does not directly mean giving out rules, that there is not a direct recipe for how to handle matters when things are done. I feel that there's a tiny symptom of the bill that's being discussed here. I'm worried about that, as I told you earlier, that this would give a very wrong message for the future, i.e. instead of postponeing the right effects in individual cases where it is safe to give a discount, you will meet certain criteria when you are allowed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u32	A respectable president. I think we're just talking about the exact same thing. It is not that we are giving a discount of rules or environmental effects, not at all, but that we give the time needed to correct what the Commission decided to do, and that was that they did not reveal other options. They're ready to do it, and that's all it takes. I don't care about nature. Senator. We're having fish farms this night, and I think there's another discussion. We need to step into the earth, since we need to provide this sector with a clear environment in order to work as long as anyone can accept it. I understand there was no better way to do this. It has been done in the plots to resolve this problem. V.E.G. A ocean - out minister contributes this way. I don't know why would it change if it works?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u33	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's heartfelt appreciation for the declaration that there is no need to change something that works. I couldn't agree. Senator. Here, perhaps, my administrative heart gets in my head because I believe that in this particular case, the right effects of justice will be much better, since it is a unique operation directed against those operators and against the work we are facing right now. Songing is more general. Legalization, as I have said several times today, is permanent, for everyone, and in my opinion doesn't give a good message to people who start a business and have to submit to the laws concerning environmental, planning and the like, that need to go through all these factors. That's what I'm worried about when it comes to legalization at this point. I've talked to too many lawyers in the past 24 hours who, of course, say things, but I agree that since it has come to this point, the Environmental and Resource Commission has taken the Polish into the hill to deny that a request for an extension of proper effects - which I believe was not correct, I believe it is wrong legal to believe that the committee dismissed that request. If I read the law, I've closed the law and the law with the law, then it's my opinion that the decision-to-do should be discussed and to postpone the legal influence of this decision. I don't think it's in any doubt. [[The president calls.]] But it's like this. It's done. Eat what is eaten. It has to be. I'm saying that such a general law in this specific case can be harmful to us. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u34	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Vala gave Helgadóttir the talk, but I didn't quite figure out where she was going. Still, I concluded that she was concerned that this was an example. I'm not a lawyer, so I can't express myself directly about it, but the case is very serious. As mentioned earlier, the license in salmon fire has been canceled. We had a meeting at the pro board this morning. There were guests from Food Institute, Organization and Environment. The fact that the Organization has even existed was made clear. in order to inform them of how to handle these matters, so that they are correct in all matters. When it comes to salmon fires, and the advantage is that of sealed heifers, salalax, or land supply, they look west, on the West, there is no such thing. There's no underland. Closed heifers can tolerate only one and a half feet [1 m] at sea level and salalax have not reached the point where they can be used for future breeding. As I understand the bill, it is merely a failure and a link that can be continued temporarily until further notice. It contains some 2,300 jobs and an enormous amount of value. So I don't quite understand the senator's approach, but I'll find it better the second time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u35	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his word. This may not be an exampler, as the senator spoke of, since there is a legal right to request an appointment here, i.e. Law, law. Of course, the reference to such a law can be based on the requirement for a minister - and the precedent possible - allowing such temporary permission. I couldn't agree more. Senator on the seriousness of the situation. I wholeheartedly agree that at this point it should not be to step forward and to stop the business that is here now because we are faced with the possibility that if the business is stopped today and if the court has ended, the Icelandic state will be subject to tens of billions of dollars, apart from social damage and damage to all the people, individuals, and families that have moved there. For me, it is beyond doubt that we must find out, that it cannot be done unless we allow the operation to be submitted. That's where I agree completely. What's wrong is that it's administrative, that it's not a continuation of the legal effect, which is a administrative decision, but that's a law, which is a general decision, which is not a provisional principle. Then you can ask yourself: " Why is it not a matter of temporary regulations rather than a law bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u36	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. We agree on the seriousness of the situation and that this must not be stopped in the position it is now. I don't trust myself to get involved in legal matters. I trust others to do so. But there was no way to rule it, because it couldn't be backtrace, that's what I heard. I believe and trust that this is what is needed to solve the issue today. When the Commission of Environment makes this very peculiar decision, I allow myself to say, to disagree with the Organization, Food Institute and the Environment Agency on that matter, with possible agriculture, closed heifers and sallax, I don't quite know what the purpose of that town is. I have to say right now. I'm upset that this has to come up like this and maybe tell us more about all that's around such activity, what it can do to put the law on us. I think it's a serious matter. I really have no other question to the senator. Thank you, and I'm glad to hear that we agree on the seriousness of the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u37	Mr. President. We'll discuss a bill to legalize granting the highest power. Marine and agricultural ministers are authorized to issue a temporary management permit. The matter is of utmost importance that they receive a very rapid and efficient payment at the council. Much depends on the decision-making of the Environment and Resource Commission that the work permit, the operating permit, is canceled, and the license is canceled as well. Such an outcome and a decision cannot be taken if ministers who handle those lawsuits do not have the same authority. The Minister of Environment is authorized to postpone the righting of the rights if he is given the most reasoned application from sources that have had the permission, but the minister of the marine export and agriculture is not able to do so. I believe that, of course, it should have been seen in some process that the minister needed such a warrant. How good it would have been if political philosophers had pointed to it and anticipated it before the matter was brought into chaos! That would have been very good. We have a number of jurists within the council and in the administrations, but unfortunately it was never discovered before. Sports often involve learning. That's what we do now. The thing is thus growing, so that we can do nothing more than go fast and safely to it with the tools and tools we have at the General Assembly. We are absolutely protected by all administrative laws and lawyers as to what is best done in the situation. I think the whole world agrees that we don't want to see what is under the economy, both to the value of the marine environment and to the raw materials under it, or to work or to the community, go to waste. There is a danger. As we have seen during the discussion, when a decision is made to stop the business, the Food Organization is made to follow. It is unacceptable that the head of the seminary, the highest. Minister, have no tools in his armory so as to take a moderate measure of this material. No one can benefit if there is great value in courts and irreparable damage. It has been mentioned here, and you are certainly concerned that if nothing is done, the State is subject to harm. It also matters that things are being done quickly and safely and that they take action that the State can take to limit and reduce what is happening about the government's damage rates because they have not received the right treatment. The Food Organization, Organization, and the EEA all agree that they have worked according to the law and are against the decision-making committees. First and foremost, it is identified as a formality, certainly a controversial, for it has been shown in the opinion of parties such as the Organization that unrealistic options should not be pointed out and that the companies have their original assessments, assessments, logical reasons why they have not pointed to other options than they applied for, marine farms. But nothing has been done with it, and the Commission of Environment and Resources has not been consulted in their work to the Agency that has an assessment of environmental impact to do with the Commission's wish for a management permit. The case now goes to a professional committee, where I'm in the lead, and I hope the Council is working fast and surely on the case so that a minister doesn't have the authority he needs. He's the best man in the seminary. A minister is democratically elected and is subject to the legal group. Of course, the decision - making committee operates on that law, but it is not a democratic of the public and therefore is not responsible as such for the consequences of the decision on people, businesses, and settlements. That's why the head of the case will be, the highest. Minister, to obtain a warrant he is doing by suing this bill, to react to the disaster I believe there is a journey. It was noted earlier that there was a problem with the general law. On the contrary, I think it's good that this is a general law. It would be rather unnatural if we were to establish laws that were based solely on individual companies. The Lawgiver is to be based on a general law that covers everyone and is something that will be built on the general basis of long term, not just jump to and change the law for a particular company. I don't think it's a role model. We're going to have administrative experts and lawyers for the committee to review the case, but I don't think it can wait, and we're gonna have to take care of it fast and fast. I trust that the U.S. Senate has an understanding that this is the main source of authority for Ministers to postpone a legal action that should have been established long ago in law. This needs to be done so that rapid intervention can be made in a career that can cause harm not only to the communities and businesses but also to the State if damages are required on the part of the people involved. Based on the information presented, and this morning's conference of employment, when we sought information from the Food Institute, the Organization and the EEA, it appears that this is a major problem and defect in the whole administrative system that needs to be corrected. But the damage is done. I believe that such a warrant is important to a minister in order to use it in such a situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u38	Mr. President. Thank you. A candidate for the talk and has a few questions. I cut it at the end of the day. A senator spoke of a minister as being democratic but not of the decision firm. The meaning of these words is clear. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir questioned the Commission's authority on environmental and resource matters for action? Is there any doubts about the commission and what it belongs to? Then I'd like to ask what too. A senator who is also the head of the employment board whether to grant a request to call upon the environmental and transport authorities for this matter, as well as to discuss a large and important environment. It is true that legislation should be universal. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir said. Therefore, legislation should not be dealt with when testing individuals or companies. That's what I'm talking about and I've been talking about all day. Law code should be general. But what conditions are the Minister planning, e.g. to set? There are certain conditions mentioned in paragraph 1. The bill. We should not forget that this is the case when members of the Commission, the decision - making committees, until the local government, cancel their license because something has happened, something is wrong. Then you wonder if it's all right if this warrant is always there to overlook the need to cancel employment and management licenses. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u39	Mr. President. First of all, whether or not I believe the Environmental and Resource Commission has not been authorized. There is no doubt in my mind that she has the authority to discuss and decide matters related to her. But what I was stressing was that after the findings of the committee, the committee as such had no responsibility for what could follow as we are looking at here today. Businesses can face irreparable damage, settlements, and people. Then comes the democratic vote minister, the senator, to meet it. Today, he has no tools to postpone a court order so he can try to correct the rule of the administration. Regarding the request to get an Environmental and Transport Committee to discuss this matter, I would just evaluate it and request clear evidence to support that this committee should discuss this issue that is not subject to it. This issue is not about the environment but about shape defects in the process. The government is responsible for this inexplicability in the permissible procedure based on the decision board. Hence, it is the responsibility of the government to meet these problems. This is to be done by allowing a minister to have a permit, a warrant to temporarily delay the rightness while an enterprise is allowed to improve what is thought to need to be done. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u40	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. What is the responsibility if nature is irreverently damaged? Here's what we've got. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, senator of the left movement, and director of the Allied Work Board, spoke a lot about the financial loss. V.E.G. So did a minister. But neither of them does mention a word about nature. Who is responsible if nature is irreverently damaged? There was a request for support to why the environmental and transport authorities should be consulted because this issue was unacceptable to the environment and transport committee. I call on the position of the other members of the left movement in this case, which, although two are sitting in the side room, are totally absent in this discussion. It seems that they have a heartless disregard for this important matter. Interestingly, members of the left movement, which so far have wanted to feel that they are the best environmental people, are not concerned. I'd like to ask the members of a house and possibly listen to this discussion: Do they agree that this matter of fish farming is totally irrelevant to the environmental and transport committee? Finally, first the highest. The Environment Minister is in the building, and it was called after him earlier, and I would also like to hear his position on this matter, in order that it is a non-important environmental and transport committee, and hear his position as to whether this whole case is a potential violation of international agreements committed by Iceland, such as It's a fruit deal. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u41	Mr. President. It is a question of whether this issue needs to be presented even better to members of the Parliament if they are considering the environmental issue to be involved. This is not a matter of the environment. It's very simple. It is about their morphological defects in the application and permit procedure that no other alternative options for the marine environment were identified. It has been reported that when the company went through food, an early food process that they had to provide for a Organization, they were told that they were rationally reasoning why they did not point out alternative options. They would be unrealistic and not effective in this situation today, but perhaps in the near future. We've got institutions, such as the Organization, to keep up with environmental impact assessments. We trust these institutions, don't we? I trust the Organization to do so. She went through all this process with the company and reviewed their environmental assessment and gave permission to management. I trust the Organization, the Environment Agency, Food Agency, all these institutions, to be careful not to give a discount on any of the environmental aspects of the marine farms on which the licenses were based. And were let down by the lack of formalities that were not in the judgment of the Commission pointed out other options that are actually unrealistic. [[The president calls.]] We're supposed to be moderate even in the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u42	Mr. President. That's exactly what I did. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir had mentioned, to the what. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir mentioned that judicial committees were not democratically elected. Then I wondered where certain lines are drawn. You see, courts are also not democratically elected. I don't know. I think it's a specific expression. A senator is meant to undermine the right of democracy, which is not democratically elected but, however, an important part of a democratic community. Encouraging the rightfulness of such institutions, whether speaking of judicial or judicial committees, may be used to justify any intervention in any case. I'd like to ask you what. Senator: Is it correct to understand that in every case a democratic individual will have the right to represent those who are not democratically elected? If so, why the decision - making committees?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u43	Mr. President. All of us in this council hall agree that it is necessary to have judicial committees that can be referred to and weighed. What I was pointing out earlier was that the decision - making committees such as these do not need to follow along or be responsible for their conclusions. There, democratic representatives must be responsible if they feel that the case could be seriously damaged by the State itself, by their communities, by the company, by the business, and by the people. In this case, the highest. Ministers do not have a chance of meeting the decision-making committee's results with a moderate measure and allowing the company to put in a new application in which it is already missing. It must be the purpose of the management board to allow companies to have the opportunity to make their applications as best they can, but they also need to be as clear as possible when they are making such an extensive assessment of environmental impact in the primary assessment report. The explanation seems to have not been enough. Therefore, our joint assignment must be to require that these matters be handled well, the executives give the opportunity to do this in a way acceptable according to the demands and results of a decision - making committee. There's no way to do this, because a food agency has to shut down, except a minister, but he doesn't have the authority.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u44	Mr. President. Hv. The senator did not answer my question. paritaprevir Vala Helgadóttir, just before, asked a completely different question. What I asked was: Is it true that democratic elected individuals always have the authority to interrupt those appointed? There are good reasons why I ask them. One is simply to the highest. For the minister of the environment is not chosen democraticly, but is appointed. With President's permission, I'll witness to the highest. Minister, he said that the government is forbidden to influence the decision of the Environment and Resource Committee. This would be a violation of international agreements. True, that was true of the Environment Minister when he was in another role in 2016. Nevertheless, this is an important point from an important minister in the current government that must be considered in this trial. If that's true. A senator is saying, therefore, that those who are not democratically elected do not have the authority over the democratic elected ones, the question may be, Do we have the highest authority? In this context, a minister of the environment was of some importance. I think we have to get a very clear answer to that question because it's a key question. It is true that decision - making committees are extremely important for the way things are done in this community. It is not acceptable to be undermined by their activities or courts or ministers appointed but not elected by the council because their authority needs to be questioned.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u45	Mr. President. We get to see the Committee after administrative experts to discuss such matters as why. There's a senator coming in. I could refer to the U.S. Marshal Aldus's statement regarding the decision - making committees. This has been discussed in the management and monitoring committee. The committee has agreed with the U.S. commission, that there is no responsibility for the administration, and that the function of such a ruling committee is considered unsupervised. So the committee felt that there was a great need for a complete assessment of the government's domains in which it would be reasonable to have independent ruling committees, both by citizens' services, by economic efficiency and efficiency, and also by responsibility and monitoring. What I'm referring to is that ultimately the responsibility of the government is at one time or another. That's what we're talking about right now, that we think it's very perplexing and that we might be partial, that a minister has this general authority to postpone justice in the case of the nature, as I think this case is, that these are primarily morphological defects that cut down the license and license, and then a minister can grant room for privacy, provided for the economy. It is good for all to know that the value they possess does not go to the courtyards, and if we do not intervene, the State may become subject to damages to so much money. We are contacted by administrative experts to weigh the available bill, whether it is not for general legislation that reaches all but is not custom for individual companies. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u46	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to legalize the changing of fish farming laws, temporary operating permits, to the highest level. Seafood and agricultural ministers recommended earlier. He clearly understood what this is all about. He has made it very clear in his case that he is authorized to postpone the legal influence of the Environmental and Resource Commission. I'm gonna stick with it, and this community in the West. While we're in the shape of this building, the homes burn on the West. Business life is burning. The banks are shutting down the pros. The society's on fire. While everyone is waiting for us to finish this case, we are standing in the way of the fire department. We are delaying the possible prevention of the storms on which the Vests are burned. A professional health committee visited there the other day. What a wonderful visit that was for all of us! It was not only beneficial to see the fish fire and what is being done there but also to meet with the people in town and especially with the town government in the West, where we sat for a good time and discussed the matter. It showed that young people are moving back home because of the great hope they have for a new job on the West. Young people see hope in the West. It's home. But there's an SS unit, a group of South experts, who always prevents something from happening on the West. The South experts always prevent the industry and transport and the fortresses from rising on the West. I think we need to take the Westerners into our arms and help them through the turbulent waters they are in right now. That's our job. Let us discuss what we must do to help them. Let's give a minister permission to postpone this court order. Let's do it soon. Let's do that well, and then we'll probably have the opportunity to talk about fish farming in general. There is no comment here on the use of fish farms or the environment in this regard. The EEA or the Committee for Environment and Resources has made no comment on the environment, beyond that, but comments were made in an optional analysis of the environmental assessment. I hope we can agree that in this case, we have no discount to give, but in this case, we have to hurry up so we can quench the fires on the West.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u47	Mr. President. I'm mostly here to make a comment about that. A senator likens institutions important to the community, and he certainly has several headquarters in Reykjavík, to Nazi storm forces, who were involved in great murder and disaster during World War II. I don't like it because one is a lawless mob that killed people and the other are institutions that are important to the community and were established to enforce laws set up in this hall. I have every reason to pray. A member of the body of elders to take them back so that we can discuss the matter on a reasonable basis. It is important that we show particular respect even if we disagree with the results they find. It is certainly creating problems in the southern part of the West, which we visited with a professional committee recently, and of course it is important that we correct those problems, but it is not acceptable to do with the calls and names.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u48	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. Yeah. A senator said that it was totally unappreciative to mention this in this way. It wasn't meant that way either. I was talking about the experts from the South, and that's how I shorted it. I'd like to make it clear that I wasn't going to cut the same knee and I didn't expect that movie to be drawn up from my discussion, I'm not even going to name it because it's not my way. I think that even if I was thinking of some amenities right now--but I'm not, well, I'm not. Senator. I think we all agree that it's important that we talk about the problems there is and the problems we're going to solve here today. We need to hurry. The fire truck cannot be stopped when the fires are on fire.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u49	Mr. President. It's fine that only specialists were being referred to in the south, although the term SS is usually used in another sense. It is, in fact, the best thing to do is not to have the countryside, nor may the southern slaughtering community. However, I think it is especially important to use capitalism, which makes us very clear to the point that we handle them with caution and do not create needless intellectual ties. There's absolutely no need for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u50	I don't see any particular reason for doing this any more. I said everything I had to say before. I encourage us in the hall to keep up the business as soon as possible and to stand by the Westerners in solving the urgent issues that are there. We can then talk about salmon environment at any time, in many long meetings. Well, there's a difference of opinion. However, we make it a point to exercise caution in all matters involved. It's very important. Let's hang out with these people. Let's do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u51	A respectable president. In fact, I wanted to respond. A senator, who was in my office listening to the talks, did not arrive in time. I understood why. One member of the first part of his talk was that we were delaying a matter. I think there's a reason to come up and turn it down. It's totally natural and necessary to discuss a matter that goes beyond that. There's no delays. It is part of what we do here and do, part of doing things well, and living up to the responsibility we are to fulfill in this room in payment. There is a tendency to minimize the need to discuss material things when there is much need. Of course, much is involved, but it is important that the discussion be discussed. A meeting can be held until midnight today, like a what? I'm sure a senator knows. I think it's right to state, because it can't be expected that as soon as the U.S. anti-continents or members of the council discuss matters, it's a matter to be delayed. It is thinking that should not be the norm at the Assembly Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u52	Mr. President. We are facing a very serious situation today. There's a lot of emergency in the south of the West, and it's important that we resolve this problem in the best possible way. To briefly refer to it as a matter of time. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson said earlier, we need to discuss this matter very carefully. There is a tendency that C. Northcote Parkinson at his time discussed my issues as they are more important. We must not fall into that trap. The problem now is that certain laws were applied in a way that appears to be in a normal manner, but from this point on, there are two priorities. One is the best interests of the West and the other. Of course it's a nature protection issue. All issues, especially after a new IPPC report arrived yesterday, are today nature protection issues. Still, there is reason to put natural protection aside in this matter and to discuss it specifically at other times. Of course, there is always reason to discuss nature's protection, but we must tear these two apart. I'm gonna do it this way. The protection issue is about whether the fish - farming law is good enough. It's very simple, it's not. They are terribly bad, terribly bad, and not in accordance with the standards that have been developed, e.g. In Norway and elsewhere. It is vital that we face it and deal with it. We don't do that now this week, we don't have time for that. The reality is that we have to deal with the problem that has come up as fast as possible so that hundreds of people will not lose their jobs and whole settlements will fall off. It's perfectly possible if things go wrong. Then let us see why. Yes, there is a decision made by the Environmental and Resource Decision Committee that is based on the lack of certain possibilities. There have been a number of possibilities, perfectly correct, dismissed, that the demand for energy is too high for agriculture, that all of the power is needed, not to mention the necessary amount of water, and that genetic changes of the kind that make a goat fish possible are an unrealistic solution, in view of the fact that technology has not been used to an extreme degree. True, from a very good man I've been doing this now in Canada to a considerable greater extent than has been done, more than any salmon farm in Iceland, so maybe it's becoming a more realistic technology, but it doesn't change that it's not the solution we need to take a nap in this moment. The possibilities were explored, but they were not addressed in the application, and there is a formality as the EEA or possibly some other institution, without the accurate knowledge of who, of course, should have been pointed out because the government has instructions. I don't want these shape defects to happen. And I'm going to call it a mess because we have a government that doesn't carry out its instructions, and on the other hand, we have laws that seem to be defective. All of this is in harmony with the failure of the culture that we have allowed to live in politics for far too long. We need to stop this. We need to take more time to be careful, i.e. not a problem, making sure things are done well, and that these faults are coming into our face repeatedly, bumping up. I've been at the Council for two years now, and I don't know how many times we've been here, how many days have gone into it just to correct defective laws. We shouldn't have to spend so much time on this. We are to be able to do a little more careful, even if it takes a little more time, so this will not happen, and the whole settlements are not upset when that happens. We can take away nature protection a little, put it aside, but we need to talk about it, and I suggest that there's going to be a very tight grip on the environment in a bill I understand coming in November. If they're not being handled properly in the bill, I suggest they fix it. It is not acceptable that we are some sort of third-rate country, by submers of other countries, when it comes to environmental protection in our present position. The question is, What ways are there to fix the problem today? One suggestion is in the form of this bill, to provide a minister with a considerable wide range of authority to correct the situation, certainly to correct it well, perhaps to correct other problems along the way. In this context, you may ask, " Am I really connected with the highest level of relationships? ' A seafaring minister of these developed companies is a problem. Maybe this is something that needs to be discussed, but I think it's important that we consider it in this context. On the other hand, there may be another way. It has been discussed that according to the decision itself and according to the existing sources, if a Food Organization orders shutdown this operation, a minister has the authority to postpone a legal action until the case has been completed. If we're good, we don't need this bill, then that's just not necessary. Then we can just go home, or at least talk about a road program that may be much more interesting to some. We still need to solve this problem, and if I were to have complete confidence that the way in which the decision is not able, let's see if this motion itself is good enough. In it, I see a few things. One is that there is a 10-month provisional permit that can be extended once. This means that, under certain circumstances, it is possible for an enterprise that threatens even nature, in the opinion of the Environment and Resource Committee, to continue functioning for 20 months after the permit has been canceled. That sounds like a little bit of a bed to me. It would be reasonable to shorten him and remove the authority to extend, but there will be a specific problem that points out that judicial cases may take a long time. It may be that there will be an interval of 18 months in judicial matters. Then there will be some form of opportunity to be able to find different intervals. Perhaps, in place of this particular expression, which allows for ten months twice, simply to say that if a matter has been appealed or requested to be recorded after a specific procedure, the right effect will be postponed until the problem has been solved. Perhaps that is enough to eliminate this problem. That is one possibility we should consider very seriously. It may be possible to take a different course and to shorten the time but to offer some extension if matters are going on. We're going somewhere in between. Actually, this is not important, but we need to examine these possibilities and make sure that there is no authority that can be used wild and crazy. The point is, this is a suggestion to correct a particular problem. I assume that the Ministry had a very thorough examination of the possibilities. There may be political reasons why this route was chosen ahead of one another. There may also be technical reasons. We haven't had any publicity about it. Actually, I don't expect that to be discussed because of normalness. Ministers at times have differing views that are difficult to reason with a reference to technical techniques. All right. Everyone has their own politics, especially in this particular room. We need to analyze this matter. We must not get ahead of ourselves and agree with anything, just because we're in a hurry. Sure, we're in a hurry. There are very often in this room, and usually when you are about to make very poor decisions. If we are able to work very well together and look at this matter wisely and look at all the possibilities that exist, both today and today, according to some widely used source that could be dug up or by setting some very limited sources that will fix this problem for now, until these enormous and important environmental factors can be handled by general legislation, then we can prevent this catastrophe in the southern part of the West. Finally, there is reason to think only about how bad it is when whole communities can lie down just because one professional sector gets caught up. We're talking about two companies in the relatively small community and if anyone had deliberately designed this system, I would suggest that the person be fired. It is unwise to build a system that is so fragile. We'll be making decisions here in this room and at the highest. A government to create a way for small communities to be much more cut - off. Building a more varied field of employment, focusing on innovation, makes it more comfortable for individual companies to have a bad week. If we don't do so, there's a risk that the effect will not only come on south of the West this time but on the day of some spot on the East Fjords, or anywhere in the South or North, or anywhere. Even Iceland has everything to do with making every effort on three key roads, which are not absolutely certain that there will always be. Now only a few weeks ago, everyone was terrified that one airline could have a difficult week. We need to think about these things in a much larger context. We need to keep in mind the future, and we need to stop making instant solutions and always get involved in all matters. There must be a much better view of the future in this room.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u53	Madam President. I have come here with a fine written talk that I'm going to step out of the way and start with it later. I'm gonna grab it for a second. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy was talking about earlier because there he hit the nail on his head. This is what communities all over the country have been calling for. They do not require specific actions. They do not call for such things. They call for circumstances and infrastructures that enable them to develop a wide range of professional roads in order not to be repeatedly in the position that the developer decides to move out of the village, that the ruling committee under an entire industry means that the whole community is under control. All over the country, communities have called for us to be able to provide them with adequate infrastructure, adequate living conditions, and unfortunately, we have failed that test so far. We Talk About Changes in Fishing Laws, No. 71/2008, to cope with the complex situation of a decomposition, allow fish farms on the West. As we know most of the time, marine farming has been debated in Iceland and, of course, in many parts of the world because of environmental impacts that can be considerable if the cards are kept unconcerned. The responsibility of the Council, the Lawgiver, in this regard is great. It is the job of the Parliament to present with policies and legislation that set strict guidelines. In my opinion, it is important to set the requirements for environmental and pollution systems of this article, and the article itself has even called for it. It is also becoming a matter of taxation for the use of the nation's resources, not as normal as it is simply given. Unfortunately, we are not discussing it today. Rather, we are responding to what may have been a fault in earlier laws, i.e. The lack of access to marine eco-efficiency and agri-gri-gri-gri-efficiency to allow temporary implementation when there are compelling reasons for this. So we are not discussing today whether we are in or against fish farming as such or what laws and rules apply to it but whether we are ready to respond and correct in general ways that limit the laws about fish farming for the future. The bill's report says, with permission from the President: The problem is that according to local law, the only option in the case of operating a fish farm is to stop its operation. Thus, it is not safe to observe an average of one of the most important rules in Icelandic administration. V.E.G. Environment Minister already has comparable licenses in law No. 7/1998, on the method of loyalty and pollution, defined in Article 6. Il. section that a minister is allowed if there are compelling reasons to recommend this and that the Agency's sources and following events of health care committees are allowed to provide temporary permission of the license. The proposed changes indicate a comparable source for marine eco-efficiency and agriculture, which, under normal circumstances, should be in place and should be aware that there is a limit to the law. The fact is, though, that these are not entirely normal circumstances. With the loss of industry and employment of the fish industry, the communities in the West are faced with the reality that up to 300 people will lose their jobs, which is a natural charm for a small society like the West. It has been noted that this must be true, since unemployment is low in the West, but the fact is that unemployment in the West is so low because of the harsh fact that when people lose their jobs, they simply move away and look elsewhere for jobs. If everything goes wrong, I'm afraid of the worst for the future you'll live on the West, and if you don't have a lot more money than the fish farms. That is, I would like to encourage us to put forth earnest effort to get the discussion of the fishery out of the pits, and we do not always draw it out as a contrast. Life is not black/white in such a way that environmental plants are automatically against fish farms or those who want fish to be spontaneous environmentally inflamed. It's not that simple. Similarly, it is important that we not get caught in the debate that this is a capital against a national or national capital. It's not that simple. Madam President. It would be much more fun to be up here discussing the big thing that is the fishery and the industry, the fishery itself, because much has to be done and changed in the legislation to ensure the structure of safe fish farming in harmony with the environment. There we have many opportunities to learn from our neighbors, who have already found many things, to be photographed by the Norwegians and the Faeroes. Even if circumstances are not perfectly balanced, that does not change our ability to learn from them and to do so. We also need to be more supportive of the development, research, and innovation of fish farming methods so that European fish farming can grow and develop like other local sectors. However, we also have a heavy responsibility for Iceland's nature, so we are under obligation to reduce the environmental impact of salmon in any way we can. However, this is not a legal issue that has to do with the environmental analysis. The decision made by the Commission is not to determine whether fish farming is good or bad but, unfortunately, it appears, has become a defect in environmental assessment. The fault appears to be that the fish farms could not have been properly ripped into other options that could have been chosen. In their assessment report they actually mention that they do not consider other options practical and appear to be the Organization, the EEA and Food Organization have agreed with this opinion of the company; however, the decision-making committee does not seem to be well-denied, and the result of the invalidation of the employment and management permits which must be considered a fairly adverse outcome based on the procedure of similar issues, e.g. in action. In my opinion, then, it is the most wise thing to give the fish farmers the opportunity to fix what the decision - making committee points out. To accomplish this, this law seems necessary, so that the consequences of the decision are not too irreversible and too harsh, not only to the economy but also to the Westerners and thus to all the people of the land. A professional health committee will meet and discuss the case, and it will be treated in a judicial way. Likely, all aspects of it will be examined and the possibilities will be rolled up, as in other matters. At first glance, this seems to be the only way to solve the complex situation that has come up, for it is unacceptable that the livelihood of the whole country can be upset. Madam President. This involves real people's life and sustenance. We have to take it seriously.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u54	Madam President. The story is often helpful when we discuss matters that are at the top of each situation. When it comes to fish farming, it is good to bear in mind that the government made that decision at its time, in 2006, it reminds me that it was a ban on fish farms in Iceland, except in three places, at Westfjords, Eyjafjordur, and Eastland. That was a major decision on the part of the government. Since then, we know the story. Fish farms have gone under. But then, in recent years, we see that they have begun their application, especially in the West, on the South Coast, where weight tolerance is available, that warrant on risk assessment is clear, and that they have applied for permission on such grounds. Of course, this also has to do with the bigger case I'm excited to be on the part of a minister, a decision relating to what demands to be done, etc.; I'll get to it later. Of course, these companies have gone on in good faith with consciousness and the will of the government. Let us bear in mind that in the years since this policy decision, to ban fish farms with Icelanders except at these three locations, the government of all categories was taken here; everyone could have come to the case and had influenced the course of the century. The situation today shows that order needs to be reexamined. I'm the highest. A minister standing here in the doorway to present the big bill as soon as possible so that we can set line lines for the future, lay lines, discuss resource costs in fish farms as should be in all other sectors, etc. But when we look at this and see how this has affected the West, the job structure, society, human life, then, in my opinion, it's part of what we call public interest. As we consider this matter, special considerations are all around the table, e.g. Special interests of fish farming companies, and they can be severely criticized in this too; I come to that afterwards. You can also talk about the special interests of the cultivators; they are also there. What are the public interests in this matter? The global interest is society out west, not just its own, but the whole community, Iceland's community. I believe that in this room, all of us feel like we want to keep our country built. That's what we want to do. Then we should take it seriously when situations threaten the existence of families no matter where the country is. I agree with it. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Peace of Elíasdóttir's daughter said earlier: "I warn against putting this matter out in contrast with urban or national areas, naturalists, or professional biologists. I also found it difficult to hear one of the chairmans minimizing the value of the principle we have developed, whether it was called the Environment Agency, MAST, or the Organization. Then we have an environmental ruling committee that monitors these institutions. We got all these institutions that are disgruntled with the decision - making committees before us, but they're going to have to do what we've been doing. We have this expression, we have this check so that humans will be careful. We need to build a rule that looks forward to the future. But when circumstances arise that threaten human life, the structure that has taken place in the West, we politicians simply need to examine what can be done without always taking these specific measures. It must be declared at the present time, knowing the government - we know even. about the bill that's supposed to come about - that it's very easy to believe that it would be enough for a few people to call the government and say, "Can't you just fix this? I don't really want to take part in that sort of payment. On the other hand, I want to take part in handling this so that we can develop long - term jobs - fish, fishing, fishing, or other things. Who's the best fisher in Iceland? Let us remember that a report was made last year, and that led to a decision. I like to mark the stakeholders who were involved in the report; they are responsible; they combined for certain conclusions. Like fish farmers or the government, fishing courts cannot run from that report. The result? To live according to risk assessment, including Merrit, and have the ability to carry weight. The companies and their communities must then be able to assume that they will and will be able to work on it. It's hard to see -- we're on our way, and then things like this come up, and we're trying to develop a system that's holding on to the industry - that people start to tear down that rule, as I thought they were in case at once. A senator's left green, I thought he was downplaying the decision board. Where in Iceland can we continue to build our industry fish farms, 71 of you. a ton that Icelanders intend to produce? We have about 15 ys. ton now, the estimated 25s. a ton in 2020 if all conditions are properly meant, always bear in mind, and then keep this thing off the ground. Chile has about 400 you've got. a ton. They're going to go up to a hundred thousand and one hundred and one hundred. a ton. Norwegians have a million tons of fish to feed. They've set the target very high, they're going to go up to 5 billion. a ton of 2040 C.E. How can we as Icelanders compete in this market, and on what basis are we going to compete? Of course, we're going to compete - and I've heard the presidents of the article say this as well as others - on the basis of quality. What does quality involve? That is a clear requirement. Strains demands. We must be like the Faeroes, who have gone under the edge of several times but who had gone through completely last time and decided to set the strictest standards that could be found in fish farming. They're on a cruise. The export is higher in the fish farms in the Faeroe Islands today than in the usual seafood products. That's how we have Icelanders to win. So I must ask, and we must all wonder: If we are going to develop a responsible industry that can become one of the products of Icelandic society, how are we going to do that? It is not credible unless the evidence has been reasoned very well. And I still feel like it's missing at the highest level. A minister I know well, that rationalizing with the bill ensures that the conviction of the court will be removed; that this is done in a way not to take specific action. What hurts fish farming and prevents us from selling our products at higher prices? It's if the legislatures are always jumping in, taking action, bringing a piece of shit. It can't happen. I also warn that this is not about government or government opposition that we need to talk about it here. All of us are concerned that we are doing this well. Therefore, we must be able to do this well on the job committee, find answers to how we destroy administrative uncertainty in this matter. It was very clear, including. this morning's meeting with the EEA, which was not necessarily accompanied by the absence of these sources. It may well be that the law of today's home, that a minister can simply, in view of a moderate administrative law, lean on the knot and delay justice; if we take all the basic princely rules of the administration laws, the moderate order, and everything that matters to us in the administrations. That is why I ask: Was the matter simply so difficult within the government that it had to be brought into this council? I admit, you're going to react when you get a call from the highest level. Minister, to whom I find it just as good to hear. This has not been true in other matters, not other giants associated with hunting costs, marine resource expenditures. There's been no consultation. Why, then, are we talking about revealing things in this matter? But I appreciate it. But that is what I did, and I was happy to have a conversation, and it made me feel better to have been informed ahead of time about what was going on. I would like to encourage the Minister to do this more often. It is by no means certain that this route will strike on the knots needed to be cut. Would not a minister simply have been able to take it himself into his arms? Or the highest. Environment Minister? - and I want to thank him too for being here. We called at the highest. A minister earlier is not clear what will happen if we push this matter to well think about how the council is going and to finish it. V.E.G. Secretary of the sea is going to try to move on and settle and finish the case. But what will the Environment Minister do? The answer has not been answered. What if the Council does his homework, makes it clear in a decent way so that we destroy uncertainty - those who work in the article, those living in the western community, and those who have been involved in it in another way - and what then? What if uncertainty is not eliminated by the council completing the situation? What will the executional force do? I think all of this matters to the Ministers, both environmental and marine resources, what they're going to do when this is over, what's the time line. We need to know why we're going this mountain road. If anyone pleases, I want to learn from history and hard work. These are questions and speculations that I hope we agree on. I heard why. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy had the exact same thought as the approach. We simply want challenges. We understand the anguish that lies on the west side. But she's not just west of here, we want it to work out for her. But we also don't want to compromise the demand for the fish farms. It is quite clear, and this morning we attended meetings with MAST, the EEA and Organization, that even though the fish fire is on its way, we are still molding the system. Why didn't the fish farms go all the way and use these options? We know that a goatfish has not gone any further, but why had it not been covered? We know that we don't have much chance west, that's what most people know, but that's not good, when we're going to do some further action on fish farms and on certain parishes, that we've been ticking in the box, going over things, and doing it so that we have the answers on our hands, or that we can answer the question that extreme evolution is shut down in water? The situation is very different now than it was two years ago; it is simply a matter of reviewing it. Criticism means that the fish industry, they have to take it seriously, not just say they want it well. They must accept natural protection requirements, respect for life and environment, serious. This should be done even if there is a slightly longer way to do so. Only that point has led to our being in such a situation today. It's not the system's fault. It is not the bad officials or the people of the decision commission to teach or the people at the institutions. Not even the counsellors. A person must also examine himself in the fire of fish when it comes to this approach. I'd like to encourage them. I know that ambition is to continue, to make clear demands, to be seen in a report, in the conclusion of a committee, in the last year I was able to do so here. There was a clear wish to make scientific counselling, to make the most demands. We are to follow that course and try to keep it going. V.E.G. President. When we discuss the matter afterwards, we will naturally call for key administrative experts. I hope that the Allegler's agent will come to our meeting, for we have to make the way for the people of the West, the people of the industry, the environmentalists, the people of the community in general, to be sure that the rule that the General Assembly approves of today, and then when we cross the total law, it's a future matter, if there's something that's on hand, can be trusted for the article and for all who are involved. That's how we're going to win. We're gonna be careful. We are going to be guided by all these rich interests, social interests, our work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u55	Madam President. In a matter of what. A senator asks if there is any resources within the administration that will solve this without any legal intervention at the General Assembly. I want to respond and ask why. The senator's details. That's the way it went. Councilmen make it clear that if a food agency is going to stop, as it ought to be done under law, members who are in charge of that decision or are going to shoot a minister to him. This will only delay the decision of the Food Agency, but the proper effect of the decision, to form in the relevant case, to allow the loss of a license, remains for the population. So that case will not save the existing position and will continue to be free of the enterprises. Another thing I'd like to come into, which I heard from every talk. A senator is skeptical about the way the minister before the council. It's a very simple way. The consequences of the decision are ignored, as we note the failure of the permit according to that decision, or the judgment if so, if we are looking at it in general, that the Minister has the authority to issue a temporary release. It is a very simple law, and it handles the problem. The Minister of Environment has a comparable source. And what does a minister do? He'll probably, if the law is accepted here, which I sincerely hope, abide by that law, as it were the highest. Environment Minister. But I'd like to ask what. A member of Parliament: What message does he have to the Westerners, to others, about the ways she wants to see? What is the course? A senator offers to solve the situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u56	Mr. President. I want to thank you. That's exactly what a Westwestern senator can say for coming up here and asking. I think it's very important that we, as senators and members of politics, also those of us who have worked within the administrations, respect the principle of moderate honor. It is quite clear in my opinion that the lawyer, as well as the knowledge of fish farming matters, has not been advised in the case nor in the opinion that the decisions of the administration taken are not to be harmed and therefore not to be prevented. What, then, are some of the ways? That's what we're arguing about. We do not debate whether to engage in action and try to find out what ways to go. It is important to respond and speak clearly. What I'm afraid of, and then I have interests in mind. The article in mind is this way that is not clear. I don't feel like I've received clear answers from the highest level. Minister of the environment today. What will we do when we have settled the matter here? Suppose this is how the matter will be resolved, a minister of the sea is expected to settle the matter on its side, but what will the Environment Minister do? Do the Westerners need to keep on waiting, and do they really need to keep on doing so? I don't feel like I've got enough clear answers so I can tell you exactly how it's supposed to be on the side of the government. It's clear that we need to do a good job of reviewing this. We need to consider this with a moderate degree, general governance, in mind. Then we take the big thing about the fish fire, the resource costs, and so on, when we get the bigger bill. I think there's a lot of room for a concerned Minister's assessment on that basis. I don't think the objective evaluation is sufficient for the bill. There's something we'll go over later and look at. Therefore, I warn myself, " Would it not have been better to make a rather preliminary law regarding the prosecuting of justice, similar to that of the other laws of the Environment Minister, in this particular case, the minister of the marine emissary authority to respond and postpone the legal action? ' [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I point to what was presented at a meeting of the trade committee earlier today. [[The president calls.]] There was no way to agree that such a warrant would be necessary, a minister could handle it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u57	Madam President. It's very interesting to hear that. A senator seems to agree very strongly that it is possible to go as high as possible. Minister says so. I can't quite figure out what to say. A senator's explanation of what is blurred. It suggests that a minister has a warrant, temporary warrant for ten months, and it is specifically stated that the permit cannot be extended beyond what has been canceled. It is specifically stated that certain targets to be met, including A statement that needs to be made. It may require that we have time to reduce or correct the flaws needed. This I think, Madam President, is very clear. That's why I'm asking. Again, a senator: What exactly is that? A senator envisions that this bill can be done? What can be resolved? Why is the provisional principle better, where existing legislation is to form a source that has a environmental minister, i.e. General requirements to respond to their request? The same is true in the building law, the general building agent's regulations for responding, weighing the situation. What's different in this bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u58	Mr. President. What is different about this arrangement is that it is very clearly stated in the law on the decision-making committee of the environment and the rights of the Environment Minister. It was considered very carefully in a report that included the present bill, but I don't think it's done too well here. I hope so. A senator doesn't mean to tell me that I'm not supposed to be prosecuting. I have my doubts. I don't have any doubts about the need to solve this case, and I understand why. A senator would like to try to set it up and make the matter suspicious and speak for his group in the West. It's all very understandable. So it is for us senators who represent certain areas. That's how it works. But I'm asking that we be allowed to review legitimate comments that have been made, including this morning's meeting with the Committee as we speak. A senator did not sit, in view of their answers as high as possible. A seaman minister came with us today. I don't think they're clear enough. We'll go over it. In the end, you may find that this is the most reasonable solution. I just have my doubts, and it doesn't matter with the highest. Environment Minister. I wonder why. paritaprevir The Tox Björn Einarsson should not be deeply concerned that there is no clear answer from the left movement. You're going around like a cat around a hot grin. They all know that this case is difficult for them, except for one of the members of the left movement, ▪ green offers. I would be more concerned that the government sent out a misdirected message than that the council would like to be careful when it comes to changing and making a sudden intervention in a law code that matters to us for the future. It is the best article for us to be careful, and it is everyone's best interest in us.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u59	A respectable president. There's certainly reason to be careful, but I think this case is so growing that we shouldn't be so careful that all the settlements on the south side of the West are going side by side. That's what I have to say. I think there's a reason to discuss in this case that we're not talking about anything called an assessment of environmental impact. That's already been done. All clearances have been granted. It is the independent administrative institutions that side by side point and point one another in the treatment of the matter discussed. It is important that the licenses are invalid based on an assessment of the environment and not due to the failure of the occupational conditions for pollution prevention or otherwise not met in any way, however, one of the enterprises involved in MSC certification. I understand it's the only company in the world that's had that witness for three years in a row, and for everything, hygiene, non-polluted product, and modeling. I'm not here to protect salmon farms, that's for sure. I've come here to defend the preconceived offense which is followed by the great saltan in its time. We have fragile areas all around the country where the wounded have moved out of the area, where the people have fled from the area because there was nothing to do with it. If we are talking about south of the West and the 300 jobs involved, the question is, What would that be in the greater context in Reykjavík, in view of the number of people? Maybe 10 of you. ... aman. If 10 of you were involved, something would happen to us. Smoking would be out of work all of a sudden? The formalities we discuss or the so-called choice analysis that the decision-making committee on environmental and resource matters decides to decommission both the management and the work permit of these two fish farms, includes checking whether there was a greater possibility of having closed covens in the sea. But it did not work out because they are already being tolerated at an unprecedented altitude of about 1.5 to 1,80 feet [1.5,80 m]. Then you can go up to the country with this. Yes, it is possible if we may have three river - water - and - water and natural space that is not there. The station we are visiting on the most recent job board is 6 of you. a fresher foundation and it's just the little war fire, which is naturally impressive, I have to admit it, and made me look things all the other way. Getting in touch with the settlements, as we did on the employment board back then, and in the building, and in the hard work that took place, and the optimism that the production has brought upon us the frayed threat of the West's southern West, surely, led a person to face the facts in a completely different way. I don't understand why we're doing this. All we're talking about is being fair to people who didn't know any better and who had the good belief that they could keep investing and have done it for a minimum of 30 billion years, I'll take a salmon farm that hasn't lost its license, Eaglelax. But to think that it is because of a formality that never really came up with an organization that called on us this morning. The Organization has issued a declaration that it is highly recommended to postpone the legal outcome of the environmental and resource decision-making committee at least During the process of setting things straight. So I'll mention it when it comes to whether we trust our independent administrative institutions in order to do our job, we should be able to do it. But what is it when we clearly see that there are individuals, in this case, that the Environmental and Resource Commission, they do not measure up to any protocol or any other. The decision board asked for no reviews from the Organization, nothing. She made her decision completely without any contact with the Organization. In view of the tremendous, amazing, burdensome decision that she made, are they careful? I'm saying no, I don't think it's a good practice. A respectable president. I don't feel that we need to discuss further whether we're trying to do something that's not because we're going to deal with the real things that turn toward salmon, the real environmental problem, the real state of the environment, if that's what we're dealing with, the real situation. That's what we do here. We should at least first consider why we are elected to be a member of the council. We are first and last elected to take care of the people of the land, to protect the settlements of the country, to follow the lead with a good example, and first, and last of all to act with respect and caution. I ask: Why was it never said to the parties when they applied for business permits that they should also have a choice analysis, even if it wasn't in the cards? Yes, there was no reason. If I had, for example. To run a business, start a knitting shop, would be awfully stupid if someone said to me: "Hey, you have to choose if you want to go fishing or have a sewing room or something else. Allows to be applied only to sea farms and to be cultured in terrestrial heifers. So, what do you say we go to an option analysis and say, "No, we'll have the blessing of setting up a knitting room instead? It is equally unrealistic to say, since neither the sealed heifers nor any other mentioned items are considered, nor is it possible to carry them on land, nor is it possible when talking about the aesthetic fish. It is not an option to bring genetically modified food into MSC culture for all this time for pure product, except for the natural fact that the fish becomes highly defective and the method that is now used to castrate the fish. The fish will be blind and broken and there are other things. There are many flaws and traumas that can result from fish. But what we're talking about and we've spent the day on, nothing more important than that we're only, and the highest. High-price minister, and hopefully the highest. Environment Minister, also, request to postpone the court action, no more than delay of the trial. We do not need to have any environmental assessments here or to wonder whether we should have salmon farming or not. We're supposed to consider whether at some point we can come up with such a profession that we can offer small damages to the broken - down areas that we destroyed with the arbitan exodus at the time. A respectable president. It was invaluable to receive to us this morning the administrative institutions that have been involved, the Food Institute, the Environment Agency, the Organization. All of them have come to them, and released the permits, and felt nothing wrong with it, so the license is not going through in one night. It's a life of years. Of course, caregivers who have such a custom of doing things well will have to do things in their good faith. They must trust the permits they have already been granted. For fun, I'd like to mention the fact that we're dealing with a small salmon farm or a growing company in the East, and hopefully we'll be judged in it within a month. I don't know exactly which company we're talking about, but this is what we got to know this morning at a professional committee. My question was, "Is the same accuser as the case discussed? " The answer was not surprising: Yes, it is the same party. Although this small growing company has been granted permission in 2012 and has been going through this process for some year, for a period of six years, they realized that it was best to sue and try to get it out of their profession. Let's see how the courts respond to the charges, which, in my opinion, are marked by sheer emptiness, for you are not to realize that something is different from what you would like to have it, especially if you went to court decisions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u60	V.E.G. President. We will discuss a bill to legalize the changing of fish farming laws, No. 71/2008 (necessary permission). I'm not going to give a long talk, but I decided to come up here to straighten me out. As the situation is very serious, it has been observed. There's talk that clarity is not enough in the rulework, formality, and such things. I know they've been looking for every way in the past few days to deal with the situation. Now it's a bill from a marine dignitary and agricultural minister I'd like to make it possible for these fish farms in the West to continue their operation. Their work is actually illegal today - they have been taken away. This isolated issue is not about dating or against salmon farming, but we have discussed some of the things that people feel or do not feel. In fact, there is another discussion that we should discuss. I've been watching things for a few years through the political bitch and I've been going west pretty often. During the last five or six years, I have seen tremendous changes in employment conditions on the West. It has been said in the speeches here that the Westerners have lost a lot of goodbye, that they sold it away. That's right, and there's a discussion that I could take in another field too, that's a fact. The situation is that there is an answer to what happened then, the Westerners are building up their jobs in a way that is different from that of picking up fish in large waters. Valuables are huge, job structure is high, population growth is intense, and watching them is really fun. When I came west the other day, I made a little bit of work. Usually when you come west on the fjords and visit both companies and people see you more often than not angry Westerners, they're groups of very strong, hardworking people. If they need anything, they'll hit the table and say, "This way, no more." But now I saw that they said they were getting tired. People would be tired of what they had become. Since 2006, Westerners have been waiting for a new route through the Gufudal Squadron, which was then ready for construction. Nothing's happened. There have been murmuring in the system through all kinds of charges, a very sad story, somehow endless. Westerners have wanted to clean up on electronics. It has been achieved in preparation for activation of the Whale River, the Whale Inactivation procedure. There are currently groups of environmental and naturalists who see everything they can and talk about unregulated nature. Then it comes up now. I've talked about it many times, and specifically stressed it recently, that my courtesy is slightly closed with this discussion, when talking about environmental protection and protection. It is usually spoken of as a matter of isolated discussions. There's always talk that nature needs to enjoy the doubt, and I can agree with that, but it's forgotten to talk about the community. I think that when we talk about building settlements in the country, or how it is, we need to talk about these three things at once; environmental protection, and community protection and building. We humans are part of nature. I mentioned tired Westerners back there, and I certainly ask them to stay angry and beat on the table. That's how things get through all the time. The reason for this situation to be broken up is, in fact, amazing, that it could have happened, as the man said. But that's a fact, and here's the way I'll support you. I will not stand in the way of that. The time this is in effect, and until this expires, hopefully it will be used to set matters straight forever. That's very important. There has also been mention of a currency that has not been shaped, as in many ways should be done in connection with the fish fire. Then I'd like to mention that I've proposed a synopsis proposal, which, hopefully, will soon be on the agenda, on the analysis of resources and resource charge. We Icelanders are rich in resources, but the debate on resource resources and resource costs is usually isolated from the marine resource. The way the sea route has been spoken has often been a great deal down because of how that discussion has developed. Is it really bad? I'm not going to have any more words about this than the ones I hope will have a happy ending. It has to. It's all the way to the other side of the West. In this case, credit institutions have begun to hold on to this matter, with large amounts of money. This is not an environmental issue; this is a question of continuing the activity that has been established. I'm not gonna have any more of those words. I hope this case has a lot of success.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u61	Madam President. The discussion here provides reason to ask if fish farming is environmental. Of course, one might say: " What else? Or what? Of course, fish farming is not what it is. It's both administrative and legal. Hard critics find a fault in long ages of licenses and a welcome license team based on an approved assessment report. And what is this fault? Does it refer to any direct aspect of the environment involving fish farming in Western Europe or Eastern Europe? Does it refer to pollution data from fish farming, environmentally friendly equipment? Does it refer to the lack of genetic contamination from open sea farms? No, he's not about any of this. It is about the lack of specific factors usually contained in all environmental assessment reports. That's my experience. I have prepared some of these reports, and they have always included the choices, including those that would seem unrealistic. This report lacks consideration of other options, as well as the changing of a goat's farm, a closed heifer, or whatever, perhaps even about zero itself. The advantages there should have been considered unrealistic by the companies, who provided an assessment of environmental impact as well as a planning agency itself. This is what the bill is about. This is the occasion. The motive is a formalization that has created uncertainty and community danger from this controversial fish farm. It's not really about the environmental impact, it's about this formality. The bill opens the assessment of environmental impact to be adjusted or repeated, and these two or three or four non-visitive factors will be there. In other words, arguments are being opened for, or against, things and the main other advantages in fish farming. Further coverage of the precise environmental effects and the practicality of others are being opened up in fish farms regardless of the outcome. This, of course, is good for all. Environmental issues such as this, what I was listing here, the pollution, or the genetic threat or anything, are no less related to this particular bill than to be introduced in the word environmental impact, the assessment of environmental impact. It is not given to any environmental discount by allowing the release of the temporary authorisation to 10 months with a second 10 months as a precaution, but it is being addressed to the defect in a case that has led to a release for a course that has not been stopped for several years because of adverse environmental effects. Madam President. What environmental or environmental factors should a transport committee discuss related to this bill directly here and now, day or tomorrow? Would it determine what is missing in this bill, providing a minister with permission to maintain the permission of fish farms, a bill that does not deal with fish farming as such but is the administration and treatment of the evaluations involved? Convinced faults that no one can resist. The professional committee to discuss the bill is the professional committee. Of course, the Environment Committee will continue to learn what it says about fish farming, even calling for one of these, and learning about the laws, pros and cons. And it will deal with fish farming in a bill now in the pipes. As a left green senator, I am well aware of the importance and the environmental risk of moderate fish farming, and I realize the value of counterimportation, and I realize the need for developing toward environmental employment. I have a vision of the challenges of fish farming in Iceland, the renderings of stocks and food production, not just in Iceland, but in the whole world, even in the name of the environment. Fish farming developed at first and without sufficient fences and regulations and became the main sector for a whole part of the country and a strong way of living in another part of the country. That responsibility we must shoulder, and make sure that in all three parts of the term nature, society, and economy, self-sustained in all three parts, just as I mentioned earlier. No doubt it takes some number of years, but it does not happen by allowing defective works to control evolution. This bill is a tool to meet both the followers and the opponents of both the fish farms in open seas by opening up a review of the environmental impact assessments which, in the opinion of the Committee itself, are involved. It is our responsibility to see to it that we do not kill this debate by spreading it but that we take it into hand and, of course, discuss all key environmental issues when it comes to fish farming and this happens next round. - I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u62	V.E.G. President. I want to agree with what. A senator says he should not be given a discount on the environment. That's not what they're doing with this bill. I think we must agree that environmental requirements must be rich. Hv. A senator with great experience had these options, and this morning we also experienced it on the job committee that it emphasized that accepting the discussion of the aesthetic fish and closing the expansion and landfire would not have been part of the options, but part of what would have been a good thing to draw. These are the exact comments made by the decision - making committee and are likely to allow them to take the lead in reviewing it. It also tells me that there is a reason why the Council Environment Committee must consider these factors. I don't see any resistance, so I have to be told twice that members of the Left Green come up here one by one and say the matter is not to be visited by the Environment and Organizational Committee at the council. Of course, that's special. Nobody's supposed to be sensitive. It's no problem for the committees to meet together. Then I'd like to know which way. A senator is opposed to the fact that these two committees meet in order for the matter to be in my best opinion. I think it's very important that the headwork of the Senate become credible, reassuring, so that all of us have confidence in this payment, especially that it will increase credibility in all the legal works around the fish industry. That's my first question.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u63	Madam President. It is not true, if options are included in the assessment of environmental impacts, would they, in this case, turn to other routes of fish farming, and not what? Of course it is. If this report had been correct in my opinion, these options should have been there and, of course, would have been reversed, no matter how practical, other means of fish farming. Anyway. Of course, I'm not opposed to this invitation right now that we've found an environment and transport committee together, not at all. I'm always ready to discuss a bill that's for payment, but I'm sure we don't have some serious environmental discussions at this meeting. We try to take care of this bill because there are delays that we fear, for we know very well how the committees work. We need guests. We need to discuss this for a few days before we can bring some kind of opinion on this particular bill. We're not talking about environmental and fish farming. We're talking about a defect in the management of the management board and setting up a report on the environmental impact assessment. That's why I said that the only thing that matters in this and in itself is the only word, the environmental impact, the environmental impact. But otherwise it doesn't matter whether this is a goat fish or so much as a fish farm in the sea, it's just not what we're talking about or what we're doing. We're trying to make sure that this fault does not cause the fish fire itself, nor the whole community, nor the natural world, to harm by handing up this particular bill right here and now.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u64	Madam President. I agree with what. Senator. We need to provide a bill that contains exactly these factors, not those factors. A senator wrote about, i.e. that we will make sure that our payments are not reminded of the requirements for the assessment of environmental impact, etc. Form is important. It is a famous story in history that says: Form is important. Therefore, I would like to stress that it is not to be taken as a small talk or hint when we say that we are going to review the matter so that it will be the best we can do and that we will send a common understanding of our surroundings. I don't believe anything but what. A senator agrees with me in that we want to have a clear demand for fish farming in terms of biodiversity, environment and nature. All right. I want to ask you why. A senator and would like to know the answer: Know why. A senator how to beat him. The secretary of the environment is going to settle the matter on his own? If and when the case is resolved, it will be done to the minister of the sea, which he will take care of in his own way. Looks like he's gonna do it pretty fast. Prior to today, the secretary of the environment indicated that he is going to take advantage of the three weeks. It is important for the council to know, and the community what a government minister of the environment, led by the left movement, will do. I feel that we have the right to know the overall picture when we discuss this part too.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u65	Madam President. I'm just having a hard time answering that question. Of course I trust the highest. Environment Minister to do his work as administrative authority. I can keep an eye on him. I'll definitely hold his hand and make sure he works fast and well, but he's here in the audience, it's a lot smarter to ask him than I am. I haven't spoken to the Environment Minister right now, running in this room. But I can assure you that this kind of work, knowing what's at stake, will be won as fast as possible, I wish. But I don't have any further answers to this. In fact, I feel that this question, which is not very right when environmental minister himself is talking in the hall and the speed of speech that has been in those hours until the moment when I stand here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u66	A respectable president. When such a crisis occurs, people often tend to rush out of the window fundamentally. I have noticed over the years that we Icelanders often do not put much emphasis on affairs or formalities, and we tend to focus on a simple solution, such as giving a decision to a minister and increasing the authority of ministers. Iceland's management government often stands very weak. I'd like to, by permission of the President, to quote from today's National Protection Report: It is the decision and risk of an enterprise to start a business despite the obvious defects in the law of the land, as if the cost of analysis was not required. The right of environmental organizations to test the implementation and work permit for activities that have harmful consequences for the environment of independent persons is of little value when Ministers establish laws on the decisions of these independent parties. It's like a lot of language for the highest level. Environment Minister from the time he was director of the organization. I want to quote him, by permission of the President: ▪ The Executive Director of the United States says that the government is directly involved in the case while it is being discussed by an independent review committee. This is in violation of the Ásse Convention and other international contracts.• I don't take it as deep as the highest. In 2016, a minister of the Environment made a comment on Theist smoking and the Crimea, but there is a little bit of concern to me that there is a great tendency to hand over power to minister right away instead of taking a closer look at the code of law we have set. The situation that has developed during this council is caused by catharsis, just as the weather on the West is because the council has ignored it over the course of the past by underdeveloped legislation, such as the U.S.A. about the saying system that we remember many of us. When much is needed, the council can assemble and establish legislation to solve problems. I'm very happy that the council takes this seriously and meets quickly, but I feel that we can give ourselves a little time to be good at it and hear more suggestions. I don't think it's clear whether this is the only possible way to make it. I would like to hear more experts from the South with that issue. I don't think it's clear at all. I'd rather cut down the power of a minister rather than increase it because some are primarily guided by professional interests while others are concerned mainly about the nature protection issues. Such issues will not be resolved with one individual's well - thought - out decisions. That's why we have environmental assessment, Food and other agencies, otherwise we could just erase the entire Icelandic law code, the constitution on the way and leave it under the heading: The Secretary's Administration.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u67	A respectable president. I'm not going to keep my case far and agree with what has already been discussed. How important it is to address the uncertainty that exists! Because there are great interests at stake for the Western community, it is urgent that the Council work it fast and without delay. But I'm a little worried when the discussion turns to how fast or easy it is to win the case. The debate on the council appears to be that the matter ends tonight or night, so that urgent interests are at stake. At the same time, the discussion has been asked, and therefore in my opinion is not sufficiently answered, whether other options are already in place, whether there are other ways in the law. Second, why this period of time? Why can't the council take a day or two to do the situation successfully? I'll mention it in that context. I am impressed that the number of stakeholders in the community who may have an opinion on the matter is aware that the Council will even complete it tonight, that there will not be a normal time or a deadline to give reviews of the matter or to promote its views. I don't feel that this is an acceptable procedure for the council. We have countless mistakes that have been made in this hall in a flubber, in haste. I can't see anything, and I haven't heard yet - and I'm at the highest. A seafaring minister shakes his head and flies and flies.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u68	No, not at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u69	But what's that about, and the highest. So a minister may be able to teach me what calls for the completion of the program, and now rather than taking a day or two to work it reasonably hard to get it done? I have heard that even if that situation might arise, as it has been pointed out in the discussion, there is actually a obligation to shut down the operation, such a decision is most welcome. Minister with authority to postpone it. It has also been noted that the location of the other smell is unclear, i.e. with regard to environmental secretary's decisions on the same matter and how long it may take. I don't see the evidence for such a rush. The Congress should take a day or two to give stakeholders time to promote their opinions, making sure that this is a fine, careful way to solve the problem once and for all. I fear this rush when there is no clear and strong reason to speed up the situation. I say again and again, I'm on the side of the case. I haven't personally found a huge problem with it, that's not what I'm afraid of. I know, however, that there are many mistakes in the matter of review. That's what we have a very careful way of reporting. We want to allow stakeholders to share their views, and we are not to fear them. So there must be very good reasons why I haven't heard from the discussion today to work the matter so quickly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-14.u70	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying I'm sorry I haven't been here right now, but, of course, it was easy to respond to requests to come. All I want to do is respond to what has been directed here to my Ministry, which has to do with the approval of the personnel. I made it clear here under unsubstantiated inquiries today, asking Halla the Signý Kristjánsdóttir, that we have not yet received an application to us in the Ministry for a leave of leave of employment that is possible to apply. Of course, if such an application is received, the Ministry will review the matter and must give it the time needed. I would like to point out that in the bill of the ocean leader, there is a special time that this minister has to review a request or application for temporary permission. There is a set time limit. Then I'd like to respond to a quote earlier to what was called the Backing Lines, which was started with a legal procedure at the General Assembly. That case is different, simply because it was due to be canceled, which was already under way for the decision-making committee, and thus the decision - making committee would not have had the opportunity to discuss those who would likely have violated international agreements. However, that is not the case. The decision has fallen, and these matters are not to be avoided.
