ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u1	There have been four letters from the minister of foreign affairs asking for every request to give written answers to the inquiries on the deck. 384, for the ministers and for the driver, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, to the threshing floor. 731, on public work outside the capital area, from the Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, to the threshing floor. 498 of the travel costs and daily expenses of the minister and the Ministry, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, and of the threshing floor. 237, for import of raw and unbound foods from Bjarni Jónsson. There have been two letters from the Environment and Resource Minister where they want to ask you to give written answers to the questions on the deck. 747, on disposal of toxicities from Hellishe activation, from Ólafur Ísleifsson of Isensimo, and on the icicle. 746, on research and pollution prevention caused by heavy driving in the valley of Joseph, from Ólafur Ísleifsson. Finally, a letter from the financial and economic secretary has been received on request every request to provide a written answer for the application. 773, on the SEC surveillance of insured loans, from Ólafur Ísleifsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u2	A respectable president. They're waiting for the pension to be corrected. Elderly people are still waiting for their disability and maintenance of the contracture period to be corrected from 2009◯2013, let alone the improvement in their quality of the 2013-2018 men who will also be corrected as members of the General Assembly and others have been treated. There is also a waiting period for the retirement of the elderly's pension fund and the disability of the TR because of a long pension fund. The cuttings are the most cutting of low wages women. There's a waiting list for a place at Empress, the House Fund of the Quantum Community. There are now about 400 people on the waiting list, only 75% of the poor will be allowed to rent houses by the fund. Some 1,000 people are waiting for social facilities in Reykjavík, including some 250 children, including 400 children. 50% has been waiting for two years, but think, 20% has waited five or more. There's a waiting list for action at the Land Hospital, as I said yesterday. 709 are on the waiting list for knee prosthetics, 340 men, and 369 women. Of these 709, 465 have waited longer than three months, or 66%. In February 2018, there were 385 on the waiting list for hip prosthetics at the designated sites of action. In February 2018, there were 72 males and 29 women on the waiting list for a heart or coronary angiography. In 2017, 96 heart valves were performed. Now in February 38 were on the waiting list, 22 men, 16 women, and considerably higher than ever before. And now there's 1,085 on the waiting list for surgery on eye stones. In February, there were 17 women on a waiting list after breast-ectomy, 35% of whom had waited longer than three months. In February 2015, 49 women waited for a breast reduction at the Hospital or Hospital in Akureyri. Now we're waiting at 83. The waiting period for thoracic surgery is even greater. I'm asking, the highest. President: Where's the Good News, members of the government? [[The president calls.]] Where did it go? In what pocket?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u3	V.E.G. President. Yesterday, there was a short discussion of climate change, its impact on life and human life, and the problems to be faced with. Another major problem that confronts the world is the pollution of plastic that threatens life. There are many kinds of plastic sluts floating around the seas, causing great damage, rushing back and forth to shorelines, damaging and killing birds, fish, whales, and other sea creatures. Through a variety of sewage and drains, tiny plastic particles reach the sea, enter the biological chain, and then end up in the human stomach and cause health damage. Microplastics reach the sea each time our washing machines expel wash and sewage, for in the vast majority of our garments are found plastics, particles, and fibers that gradually dissolve and come out as previously said. The largest plastic pollution comes from car tires or about 60%, it also comes from paint, and microplastics are found in most cosmetics. Plastic is a pleasant material and is used widely. Among other things, we have overused plastic bags, which are now banned in some countries. Happily, the public and the government have become more aware that this is a problem that we need to deal with. I'd like to celebrate the resolution adopted here at the World Council of April 25 to investigate microplastics in marine organisms in cooperation with the Faeroe Islands and the Greenlands. I'd also like to state that the Environment Ministers of the North have agreed to an integrated system of ways to reduce the environmental impact of plastics.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u4	A respectable president. I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity today to encourage the United States of Congress to be seen on the march of Pita, who will be leaving Saturday afternoon, May 12th. The walk is a reminder of those who have taken their own life, called the correct name ◯Ur of darkness in the light to be seen at the end of the day. 4 a.m. in the morning light. Of course, there are too many people in our society who never see that light. We can support them, the relatives and also those who have seen the light and come into it with the help of a organization like Marty by walking in together into the light. We believe that with a wake - up and more discussion of mental illness and the risk of suicide, we can encourage others to seek help that would otherwise have not been done. It's a great organization that has resources for suicidal individuals. To this, it is so extremely natural to support the fact that if another disease or accident were to take away as many people as suicide would ever be, we would hardly talk about anything else. That's why I want to encourage you to participate. There were a lot of senators showing up last year, which was the first walk in this country. It is normal for us to walk with others into the light, for it is a privilege to see the light every day. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u5	Mr. President. We're gonna go for a second. Clearly, a senator is in the same area. During the days, the surgeon general's office agreed to conduct a health - care programme to reduce the number of suicides in Iceland. These include a six-arm action programme and involve both general public, such as promoting child training conditions, mental health at school, and alcohol and drug prevention, as well as specific measures aimed at special risk groups and the limitation of access to hazardous substances and circumstances. Emphasis harmonizes with the development of protective and risk factors for suicide over a long period of individual life and with the need for effective preventive measures to focus on both general and limited factors. It is of interest to note, then, that Pita, mentioned earlier, an organization that has dedicated itself to working against suicide and self - harm, offers free options for suicide victims, for those who have committed suicide, for those who have suffered from self - injury, as well as for those who have lost loved ones. It is estimated that some 5,000 people, 15 out of 1,000 Iceland, consider suicide each year. Their mottos are ▪ Say it out loud, which reminds us of the importance of speaking openly about things and using both friends and other backlands to do so. Help is there. Just next Saturday, we'll have the Pita organization in cooperation with Landsnet for the walk of the ◯Ur darkness at the light to come in the third time. The memory of those who have taken their own lives and to strengthen the hope of those who are pained by feelings of discomfort, suicidal thoughts, or thoughts of self - harm. It will be walked in three places this year, in Reykjavík, in Akureyri and Iceland. I encourage, like a what? A senator before me, those who have the opportunity to participate. You can find more information on both Pita's facebook and on their website. The black mark is # Say it up.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u6	Mr. President. European day is celebrated today throughout Europe to celebrate the peace and unity of the continent. In my opinion it is no coincidence that almost all countries of Europe are either members of the European Union or have applied for involvement. In short, it could be said that the main benefits of Iceland's membership are greater impact, lower food prices, increased stability, lower growth, higher foreign investments, less gang swings, lower business costs, and no price insurance. Each year, tens of millions of dollars each year would be worth the uptake of the euro on their own. If we had a European price on money and a Norwegian price on food, every Icelandic home would save $150,000. per month. I would also like to insist that the right to use the marine resource will not be converted into the EU, including By the rule of hunting experience. At the time, I received confirmation from one of the European Commission that Iceland is currently recording about 75% of EU core legislation. It's an amazing lack of knowledge from Iceland's foreign minister to talk about our recording of only 13% of EU legislation. Does the Minister think 87% of the EU is fishing and agriculture? It's the main areas outside the EEA. Does the Minister think that the principles of the four freedoms to free people, capital, product, and service are only 13% of the EU and the European community? Mr. President. The largest business in the country, including fishing companies, has long since left the crown and Icelandic interest. Meanwhile, Icelandic homes and normal companies are left with one of the most swinging currency in the world and the growth of steroids.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u7	A respectable president. Could it be that the group's fight against discrimination, injustice, poverty, and all too low workers'wages is the reason why they are excluded from the leaders held in the Old Lota this morning? The network of industry, tourism parties, industrial organizations, trade agreements, and services were held for the meeting of a living city and professional life. The people were the only group to represent the International Assembly of the Icelanders, who were not invited. It wasn't a mistake, it was asked if we'd forgotten. No, there wasn't room for you. There were too many people on the platform. One thing is certain, the majority of the people will never compromise their ideal to improve the interests of the upright. The people's party supports the upcoming challenge of workers with all their might. They are the ones with the lowest wages, the ones who always pay in ozone, bankruptcy, lard, and pork, and the few with virtually all the resources of the land. That this organization is ignoring us so completely tells us only one thing; they want to get rid of the people's Gang. We're doing the right thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u8	A respectable president. I just want to talk about health matters, ending one of the huge issues we deal with in our daily activities. In a meeting with a man. This morning's administration and surveillance committee... we discussed a discussion, including... Report Public Health Review in the capital area. There were some interesting things that might not surprise us. It stated that between 2007,2016, funding for the health of the capital area has increased by 3% while the population in the same area increased by 11%. The rate of specialist medical expenditure increased 57% at this time. This will help you to focus on the quality of your health that has only been discussed here, including In this chair yesterday. Opinions have shown support for the public health system, the part of the system. A few years ago, e.g. Over 80% of the government's handling of clinics. Therefore, it is particularly enjoyable to observe the work that has taken place in the Ministry of Health for the maintenance of health care as the first stop, the teamwork thoughts that are being followed, and the great structure that has already begun and will continue to be done. In fact, there are many good news coming from the Ministry of Health these days. I was happy, therefore, when negotiations met midwives in home service and excitedly waited for the same event to occur in general with midwives. I was happy, therefore, when there was an announcement of the development of even more nurses, that in the coming years, 10.5 billion are being built up. I also rejoiced that there was a funeral campaign and a cooperation program on construction because of the construction of a new land hospital. There are some good things to do, but we need to keep moving.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u9	A respectable president. I have often come to this public address to discuss traffic security, but now I plan to make an example. paritaprevir The Haraldur son of Benediktsson, talking about Internet security. He compares these two things together, the development of traffic security in this country over the years. How we felt at first, but we still had much to add. I think we're doing a little bit of Internet security there. We need to look at what we are doing in Internet security. I got it. I got it. Councilmen to review this article. A senator in the Morning newspaper yesterday, May 8, where he deals with these matters. We are very prominent, Icelanders, in Internet use like many other things we take over, and this has to do with all of us, our infrastructure. It's natural in our homes, it's in the companies, it's in the administrations, it's all the information about us there - and it's recently been observed failures when our rural communities started pumping information about us into the Internet, it's one of the manifestations. But it also enters the communication systems itself, all the service systems, such as the electrical energy system, and so forth, the transportation systems, the financial functions, the health functions, the administrations, and any of these names. I was allowed to participate in the report at Oxford University here a year ago, resulting in the results of about 120 improvements. There is something that we need to look at, to protect both personal information, this system, and how we are going to associate with this new technology. So we need to ask ourselves, " Where are our weaknesses, what instruction are we doing in order to keep these matters in order? ' It is not enough to be the best in technology and to make the most of it. We must be the best in safety too.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u10	A respectable president. I want to start by celebrating a speech or two. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur's Árnason of the Year, highlighting everything he said. In fact, my opinion is that Internet security is probably the aggressor of Western civilization. But on to the related material, a social protection law I've mentioned several times before. It is now found that the bill on new protection laws derived from EU regulations will not be submitted until we postpone meetings at the General and go to the county elections. Congress regroups after that, i.e. After Regulation takes effect in the European Union. This is worse than I ever hoped to hear. But I have to mention the reason why I mention it again, i.e. My hope that members of the community, partnerships, businesses, and individuals will realize that they will have the opportunity to look at such things as they will be submitted to the General Assembly at that time. This is done by entering the website saradhole. It has a search area, which typed ◯ Personal Protection. Then one result comes up, it is clicked, a bill for a new identity protection layer, and on the right side of the page the document can be downloaded. And since it can't get into the council right now, it means that the bill doesn't come up with a review that I find very serious. When we discuss this matter, we will do it in time, and we will not have reviews to guide us with the rest. There are already things in this bill that are worth discussing and pointing to. I'm hoping, however, that individuals in the community will benefit from the opportunity that is found on their consultations to examine the bill and be willing to post a review when the case finally arrives before the council. We have to do this well. We were going to be the best in personal protection, the best at freedom of information. As the situation is now, we're messing it up. It's very sad. We're supposed to turn back and back where we were, we're going to be the best at this, not after.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u11	V.E.G. President. I've used this team, the council's work, the leading to promote and discuss the work at every turn. Funds in connection with financial programmes, especially with other members of the Governing Body, the organization, and the work related to this discussion and coverage. I've been doing this since the first week, where we met together with other constant committees and had ministers and employees consulting for meetings and presentations in their territories. I've had an excellent reaction to that arrangement, i.e. The joint find, but at the same time, there are conflicting opinions on how this has been accomplished. It's clear that we have to revise that arrangement, and then I'm going to say, in the end, that it's necessary to go through the committees and decide for the next plan how it should be handled. Today, each committee is completing the guests'arrival for the case, and it is not surprising to prepare, and some are covering the case with the financial committee. I've been asked by the chairman of the committee when they need to be returned. I've answered that sooner, the better. To put a point on it, I've talked about May 21, and I'm going to follow it through mail to the committees so that we can start thinking about it. I do so in mind that the budget board is going to have a meeting on May 16 and complete the guests' arrival and try to work on being ready for a committee party when we return here after the county election. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u12	Mr. President. I come up here to discuss the unclean children of Eva, who are pioneers, health professionals who have played a vital role in our health system and who would like to continue to do so without necessarily becoming public employees. It is quite sad to observe government methods and their conduct. It is not fulfilling the promise of a health - care campaign by moving the funding from these long - term professional workers to a state hospital or other such institutions. Nor is it a matter of strengthening the Land Hospital by moving there aimlessly without even overlooking the use of existing funds. They also need to remember that behind the budget, there are people who have been served and who need to continue this service, at least In the form she has been. Third, there are tools to discuss whether or not it is proper to speak here about a private operation. It is quite normal if, as it turns out, we have access to our health - care system. If that is the case, if this journey continues, it is responsible for the ruling parties and it is responsible for all three of the administrations.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u13	President. Today's Web site shows that the police in the capital area assess Anna Katrín Snorradóttir's story, of Róbert Downeyr's offenses against her, credible but has dropped the case because of the alleged offense. Anna Katrín accused Róbert Downeyr of sexual misconduct last summer when it was found that he had been betrayed by a sexual offense that he committed against five girls. We now know that Anna Katrín's phone number was in Róbert's notebook, which contained 335 women's names, many marked numbers that most likely represent the age of girls. Anna gives evidence of the police's failure to investigate the five cases back then, but the court says Anna Katrín is in a conversation with the U.S.R.V., with permission of a president: It would have been so easy for the police to find the 2005 notebook to call me... to offer me help and give me a chance to sue... That would have been a year after he broke me in 2004. One phone call. The police who refused to call the 335 names/numbers contained in the book have not acknowledged a mistake. The man who broke up with Anna Katrín, when she was a child, can still go to court for granted. Because of the high order, a member of the Sanhedrin can become a legal lawyer again. The ministers who concealed Anna Katrín and other violations of Róbert's information on the sequence of events that led to the failure of the man and possibly 329 other girls can assume that their legal rights have not apologized to them. In fact, the enough ministers spent a large amount of government funds to slander them and their international struggles. Despite promises there, the laws that are about to grow old have not yet been changed. The minister who is responsible for this position remains under cover of 33 o'clock. Senators who have full confidence in her. [[The president calls.]] Your responsibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u14	Mr. President. Now everyone knows how important it is to stop the production and distribution of nuclear weapons. A nuclear arms race is an international problem that has been tried to stop nuclear bombs from being invented and with limited results. It is also known the importance of ensuring that specifically Iran did not become nuclear. It is also very important that we begin to invite the Irish who have offered not to enter the cold to get them to do business with the outside world again and to be a nation among the nations. This is important because we know that liberality is the result of internationalization and international cooperation and liberality reduces wealth and promotes democracy, something we know that has often been needed in a town. Basically, Iran needs the world. Yesterday, President Donald Trump of the United States decided to end a deal with Iran for his own sake. What a huge mistake that will bring us great trouble! There's a lot to celebrate the European Union's reaction to this. Juncker, Tusk, and Mogherini all presented themselves with extraordinary intensity, saying very reasonable things about the need to keep the contract. There is an example that the European Union is acting strongly against such decisions in the United States, e.g. when the Helms-Burton Act was given at its time, Regulation 2271/1996 met the target. Basically, all countries of the world, including Europe or anyone else, must agree not to allow Donald Trump to ruin world peace, that must not happen. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u15	Mr. President. The Council's Web was at the end of February reporting on the financial benefits of a government fund because of the Arion Council of Banks. The report says that the benefits are over 150 billion. This is a feature called the assessment value of stability property. It shows an estimate of the value of the stock exchange agreement of Arion at 19.5 billion. There is also another feature that is called other assets and that reads up to 23.8 billion. That's a total of 43.3 billion. I have repeatedly tried to find out more about these two amounts, but in vain. It's been another month since I asked for this information. It's been way past every hour. Whether these amounts are practical, it is vital to know what is behind them. These are significant amounts of money, and it's not acceptable to be thrown forward without any explanation. Is it true that these amounts of money are not to be set aside as a government fund for the sale of Arion banks and the highest? Prime Minister - Is It So Happy? I've previously pointed out that the government is pampering the hedge fund at the Arazon bank like a naughty kid. The government sold the stock on price, dropped the bank tax on the billion hedge fund, and the last time it's due to fall from the prenup. I prophesied in my speech some time ago that the government would fall from the premium. For that, the highest would be silenced. Prime Minister, who was in a hot mood. One is coming to the next day, according to the latest news. The newspaper claims that the state is falling from premium. I asked about this on a financial and business committee and I didn't get any answers. This, too, could not be answered at a meeting of the legal committee this morning. Mr. President. This secretism of the government in the matter of Arion Bank is intolerable. This is public interests. It's cutting off the surveillance role of the Generals. Is there something in there that can't stand the daylight?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u16	Mr. President. At the beginning of February, I read the website of the Danish tax office on the disposal of Dana of Panama. It says that the purchase of documents has already made many payments for the Danish state, even though it is far from the end of the work. It would have been impossible to find out about tax fraud and to collect the tax unless you bought it from the documents. As a result, I requested written answers from the highest level. Financial and economic secretary on the status of the processing of documents here, on the level of government funds, whether enough funds and knowledge were available to work on the tax reforms, and to request a comparison with Denmark on this matter. It's been over ten weeks since the highest. The minister received the questions and no reluctance to respond. No country in the whole world had as many agents in the Panamas as does Iceland by the appeal number. But do we have a worldwide record to process the documents and collect the tax that was due to happen? We need to know. What will hold them back from responding? We also had a lot of northern parties. The data contained some 600 Icelanders but 500 Swedes, although 30 times as many live in Sweden as in Iceland. It was just one law firm. Many of the indirect effects of using taxes are difficult to assess for money. However, it is safe to say that their use contributes to a growing inequities and undermines the welfare community. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u17	President. I come up here because the democratic work of the II Parliamentis Regular Committees is in confusion in most parts of the world. I've been receiving reports from what happened again. My crew, as well as others. Councilmen from the memory of all members of Congress or as good as sitting on committees in the power of the claim that no cases should be resolved unless there is some sort of perfect Hallelujah union here at council. This is not the way we have chosen to resolve matters from committees. What would be the point of a minor opinion if they were not to resolve differences from committees? That's what I do for the highest. President that he would use members of the committee to respect democratic work and to allow matters to go through which they are ready. It's not okay. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u18	A respectable president. The spring's coming. When we walk to the east, we are well aware that spring is indeed coming. Earlier in the winter, the government discussed the need to promote the Council, that should promote the cooperation and cooperation of the Generals and the groups here. But now it's time for a little bit of digging under the surface to show that it's all pedestrian. Even valid matters that everyone agrees on are taken hostage in the government. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] All talk of cooperation and cooperation is now empty. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u19	A respectable president. Not long ago, I was singing in this chair how well the welfare committee was worked, and then we were talking about the affairs of the disabled. But I have come to believe that this was the exception of the rule, that was the only exception. Today, everything's been born. It's so tempting that you have chills when you come over the East Coast and go back to the House of Congress. These are incomprehensible practices. They're going to put a microscope on everything to get things out of the way. We in the people's Gang have one issue on this blessed committee, it's a seagull, because the government doesn't want to let it through, the government, forgive. [[Set up on the board: the board of directors.]] You better be right. That's small. They're asking for new data. When they come, it is said that there are so many opinions that concern this one matter. How many are there? There were four, the words five, and the fifth gave support to the matter to go out. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u20	President. I come up here and join my colleagues, it's a bad situation that's now part of the Committee. It has been said more than once that there is a need for someone to settle matters so that they can get an appointment from the committee. It's not okay. We'll arrange a hearing to get them in a democratic discussion at the council. These matters need not be taken into account. Then they're just let down. It is the General who decides whether or not a matter will succeed. They are not to be put to bed on the committee. This is not the kind of work I expected from the government groups. I expected this treatment to be better and more professional. I pray we stop this. Some people only have one case they want through. It is said that these things cannot be resolved because everyone needs to be accepted. It is the chairman of the case who is responsible for his own opinion. That doesn't have to be settled. That's why we have minor opinions. This isn't how it works. We have to change this. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u21	Mr. President. It's exhausting having to come up here and keep harping on the same thing. I hope I don't have to be here every other day and remind you of the front cover of the Continental Convention, the Convention of the Apostle Party, the Independence Party, and the Left Forces of Government Cooperation. What has been the result? Nothing. This would not be happening on the committees unless the government has asked for it. Now I suggest that they come here and realize how, in many cases, they will respect the arrangement of the Treaty to increase the respect of the Generals, because we will not bend to the dust and let them go their own way. This is violence, Mr. President, and we are not going to accept this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u22	V.E.G. President. I'm here giving a speech similar to that of other members of the Council and the staff of fixed committees. I quote the Constitution of the Treaty, that the promotion of the Generalis is one of the priorities of the government. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - with increased support for the members of the committee and We want a new job, says there. These were the new practices I witnessed this morning. I sat as an assistant on a welfare committee. They stopped everything that came from the memory and talked about winning this matter better. I agree with other members of Congress who spoke above. We're in politics, and that's how we work. We cannot do everything in general, we must be able to cope. So there has to be another plot that the politicians are allowed to enjoy themselves here at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u23	Mr. President. For a long time this council was being discussed only by members of Congress because there was no political issue here. We drew attention to the fact that the matter of Congress would be handled by committees and would be provided for the council hall. We also pointed out that there would be natural problems and lack of time if it was to be piled up by the board's primary projections here at the end. What comes on the day, Mr. President? The Parliamentary affairs are held in the committees. The members of the Parliament who held up positions held up a political debate in this plagion hall of this council are not allowed from committees. They're being put to bed on a committee. It's the new job. It's the boost of the Generals. Or what, Mr. President? This isn't working.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u24	Mr. President. Today is approximately 15 years since I proposed my first session for the Council. It was about canceling the deadline for sexual acts against children. This case received support far beyond the ranks of my own party, and the point was that I thought it would go relatively fast through the council. No, over and over at that time, I received the message that since I was in a position to conduct at the time, I would not be accepted for this case. Attention, we were talking about canceling the deadline for sexual acts against children. As a member of the State Assembly, I was not even to be accepted into this room. We were fighting four years, including At the then chairman of the General Commission, who may well be the current financial minister, Bjarni Benediktsson, and after a lot of driving and mollusk and behind the curtain mat could at last be approved for this breakthrough step in the child's battle of rights. Then 15 years have passed. I thought we'd gone longer than this. I thought all of us were so aware that we were on this side of the hall had nothing necessarily less authority to advise than the Ministers. [[The president calls.]] But once again, we have confirmation that it is not. It's particularly sad, Mr. President. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u25	Mr. President. Of course, I am surprised that, like others, the Treaty of Government Collis and the provincial powers of the Council will appear in such a way that it lies flat over the World Council of II, all in a tight spot, and does not move at all. It was said that this was about to become a new practice. Then what is it? Or what? I allow myself to say as others have said here that I was expecting something more and better from the fine categories that have come together, the forward groups according to the verbs, in this cooperation. Mr. President. This has to change. It can't be that matters are here completely frozen and stuck and nothing moves.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u26	A respectable president. I'm coming in to say what I'm talking about. The senators have told me before about this terrible situation. Hv. paritaprevir My name, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, gave a fine talk in advance about the activities of the council in which he spoke of a waiting list and the great ills of the medical system. It seems to me that here at the General Assembly, we also live in a set list of proposals, which are all the fundamental matters of Congress that await committees and for no apparent reason that they are being held indefinitely.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u27	A respectable president. First, I'd like to agree with all those who have spoken before with me about the hostage of the committees. It is most frankly said that there is a government and prime minister that, less than eight months ago, would no longer be allowed by Icelanders to wait for justice. Poor people will no longer be able to wait for justice, but in committees, they will be held hostage by members of the highest council. Prime Minister. I'm just saying, if it's the boost, if that's what you're doing, I think we should be ashamed to believe it. It's not true. It's a fake boost. It's a better job at the General. I'd love to see that we could at least... stand by and present the minimum fairness of the city's inhabitants who have the worst interests at heart.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u28	Mr. President. V.E.G. The president said that he would not be surprised if the members of the council were to leave their voices behind for a meeting of presidents. I have to say, however, that it really surprises me, in view of the promises expressed in the government covenant and in the highest degree. During the holidays, the president has often said that he would promote the council. But there's nothing to change. V.E.G. But I must say that I have rarely experienced a situation as bad as I am now. The cold now, the loss of the government's relationship with government opposition, has rarely been as bad as it is today. It's bad to see with the government led by the left green, left green lead both here at council, the legislature and the left green have taken the lead in government. It doesn't change, and worse, it just gets worse. So I want to encourage the highest. The president is now taking in words to promote the council. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. The President is the president of the entire council, all members of Congress. It's time for us to handle important matters here, important matters, whether from members of the council or from the government. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u29	The president would like to explain his comments to the question that it was not surprising that a meeting manager would need to be discussed - it was an attempt to be funny at his own expense, but as it is known, the president's attempts to strike back strings usually fail.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u30	Mr. President. I'm coming up here to say the word, OK? Councilmen here admit that I was very disappointed by the conduct of the greater part at a meeting this morning at a welfare committee, where I was a substitute. It included a very farfetched barber to prevent a number of members of Congress from being taken care of by the committee, knowing that a discussion about them is actually over, and nothing that prevented them from being taken care of. To be honest, Mr. President, it was just someone who needed to say, "This is mine, I'm allowed to do this. " Mr. President. This is not in harmony with a good promise in a government covenant.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u31	Mr. President. I'm not gonna delay this discussion for a very small reason. You might think that democracy had been decommissioned at the General Assembly and that it had developed a huge debate, and I don't know what or what. All that was going on, and discussions have been going on between the heads of Congress, focused on the fact that the two days that the council operates, yesterday and today, until a half - month break would be used to complete what was a relatively good agreement; would not be difficult and would not call for much discussion. Ideas were about taking some of the first discussions that could be sent to committees and using this half - month for reviews. On account of various political groups, they preferred to take a case from committees. Of course, it was discussed whether there were issues that called for much discussion or not. It was now a matter of government opposition. The conclusion was that there was no agreement. [[The president calls.]] But in all this excitement, people need to remember that the council is not over. This is merely a matter of not becoming a conference for two weeks. The Senate takes back May 28th, so none of what has been done on committees is destroyed or knocked off the table. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u32	Mr. President. I must likewise agree with the words that have fallen away from the wind. Congress members of the government opposition, i.e. the lack of these professional practices that were offered by the highest order. Government. I must also say that when you experience it on a committee, such as on the Environment and Transport Committee, it appears that governments are directly preventing further administration initiatives. There is a situation that you did not necessarily expect to witness in committees. It seems, though, that living together is not better than having such tensions, so the committees also present cases that are quite good and essential. Then you wonder: " Why are we doing this? Isn't this the legislature meeting where we're trying to do something good?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u33	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by protesting the highest words. Mr President, he doesn't have a sense of humor. President has a fine humor. We don't always agree on all things, but President Humor's all right. I want to start by saying something. paritaprevir Sæland Howlsand about this meeting this morning. It's very strange that one category is left out. It's okay to look for an explanation. The reason I'm coming up here is the condition mentioned in the committees. This is not to say that the government has stepped in on the Generals'committees, which is not at all. The government has advanced rather than the rest. On the other hand, governments have taken certain committees hostage. Of course, this is not true of all government officials, of course, of particular government officials who refuse to handle cases from committees. It's almost reasonable that it doesn't matter whether it's a government or a government issue. A well-being committee is particularly bad when it comes to this, so I'm just gonna let myself say it. Another agent of the left green out there completely stops everything there is, and that's a representative of the group who's going to fix and repair everything. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u34	A respectable president. Yes, our memory differs. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir speaks of her not bringing less to such coldness, which now exists between government and government positions on committees. I remember the year before last year, with the cold now that the government situation did not get even one prehumanity on any committee. I'd like to say something with a what. paritaprevir Birgir of the Ármannsson, it's a little weird that we're discussing this. We are not postponing a council until the fall. We're postponing a council for two weeks, and there's plenty of time to work. The fact that we make the same mark between the members of the Council and the members of the committee feel that a case needs a better job before they're taken out is an equation that I can't get together in my head. Men may interrupt and tell ◯come on their way; nevertheless, there are members of the committees who believe that some cases need better work, that more guests need to be called, that they need to work better in the reviews. [[Up front.]] People can cry out and shout, now in a position of government, perhaps more accustomed to being on the other side of the table and no longer being in charge, but they may need to extend an act of reconciliation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u35	Mr. President. I'm on the two committees of the Generals, and I'm here to name a General and Education Committee, a highly designed committee that has been guided by the discretion of her chairman, chief. paritaprevir Páll Magnússon, who has been very successful in working there. I just want to use this opportunity to give special commendation. However, there are two cases on the committee, one on the one hand for the development of digital carpenters who are ready, and all the committees agree on and the committee agrees, and there is a national issue regarding the improved status of the female class. It has, in fact, revealed that a representative of the Independence Committee, Ármannsson, is opposed to this matter, but in other respects, it seems to me that there is a greater part in the commission. I've requested a briefing, did it with a mail by 9:00 this morning, and now I'm just waiting for an answer from my fine chairman, Páll Magnússon, that we have such a meeting now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u36	The president allows himself to draw attention to him. Congress officials realize that we are approaching the time when special discussions were being started. There's four down yet. Senators on the rosary. We seek to empty it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u37	A respectable president. I wasn't here 15 years ago, but I was here for the last term. Then, more of the General and Education Committee once voted against taking out the so - called drinking business, shop in a camp, as we call it here in the tunnel. It all went crazy, a man was sent an angry e-mail - and it was for wanting to talk it over better. It was simply the opinion of the majority of the committee that there was something else to be done, that we would not have resolved the matter. It is the standard, whether we are willing to take a stand on the matter or not. Whatever it is. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson's farm son confirmed the above complaint. If these are part of some agreements, it is not to say whether the issues have come to the point where members of the council can form their own position and take their own position on the committee. It's new, it wasn't like this in the last term. This is new, and this is under a government that claims to promote the work of the Generals. It's just bullshit, it's nonsense. It's not an edge, it's new, and we're supposed to reject it right away. [[The president calls.]] I know why. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé has plenty of time for our problems in the smaller parts, but it's not about that and he's supposed to know. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u38	Mr. President. Sometimes it only makes it easier to hit your breasts with a little less, and to put your interests into action. This government undertook the promise to promote the General Assembly and to improve the cooperation within the council. I think it may be said that the government has the right hand in this matter, saying: "We are ready to cooperate with them, we are ready to step up for the job inside of a council. I don't think we've been getting in a lot of trouble with the government in any case, either here in the Senate or inside the committee. It is now so late that despite the fact that the government's situation actually held a lawsuit and a discussion here at the council, with a contribution from where nothing was left at the highest level. Governments and despite the fact that these committees had more than enough time to discuss these matters, call out for visitors, ask them about the reviews, and then stop these matters now with the message that this is not the time to negotiate their release from the committees, it may be later when there is a shorter period of time left for the council. I don't know what that's like. [[The president calls.]] At the same time, it is foretold that there will be dozens of cases of government on dogs during some day through the committees. [[The president calls.]] All I'm saying is, like a good radio station said, "I want more music, less talking." [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u39	Mr. President. I'm on the board of command and surveillance committee. This is exactly what it is, if there's any issue - in terms of the General's surveillance role to the executives - that we have and are dealing with. A well - paying board is doing its own surveillance work on how things are handled with the Children's Protection Agency and its director. There has now been some debate about the extent of the administration and monitoring committee may need to be met because she has a higher level of self-monitored surveillance. This case is all upset and humans are on the brake, really aggressively on the brake. It took a really long time to reach some conclusion, and they want a break, etc. The experience is very clear in the committees as the people hear. It's all over the brake when it comes to what the smaller part wants to do, even doing its own monitoring role with the Commission. We're not gonna do this anymore. If it's like this big part, then everything is frozen here at the council. [[The president calls.]] Then it's the responsibility of this large part.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u40	Mr. President. I would very much like to direct it to the President not to shut down at all for his excellent sense of humor. But I want to discuss what we're discussing, and that's why committees are being stopped and why they're not. For example, we see a case from the Central Order of Hospitals. Everyone's developed an attitude. What's being hidden? Why can't you get the case in here and just vote on it, discuss it, and then vote on it? What's the government afraid of? Is she afraid to stand together in a matter where there are clear opinions within the government? Why can't the Central Party just get this case that's been going through completely? Why can't a group of people have some of the things they love about the program? And why is a government led by the left green not to resort to improving the ideals of women's classes, to have a national agreement on the ideals of women's classes? Why isn't the government making deals with women's classes like midwives today? What's the government afraid of? [[The president calls.]] Why does the government, led by the left movement, allow the offer of green, independent men to stop themselves from improving the interests of women's classes? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u41	President. The basic concept of civil pay is found at the root of Thomas Paine's 1797 writings entitled Agurian Justice. The main concept is that the value of natural resources that have not been produced by anyone but, as a small group, should be distributed equally to all. The trade of these resources, which is basically the common property of all citizens, should tax and share. This profit, or wages, would be the natural and inborn right of all citizens. Paine said, with President's permission: It's not charity, it's rights, not drunks, but justice for which I speak. That is exactly what these terms, rights, and justice are behind the idea of civilian pay. Civil pay is also known as a conditional base advance. If we imagine an immediate improvement system without condition and impairment, we are, in fact, thinking about civilian pay. In its simplest form, the idea is that each citizen, regardless of his own estate, home status, age, income, and without any prior requirement, has been employed or is willing to take the available job. In 1928 British economist John Maynard Keynes predicted that technology would become such that machines would make the work supply unnecessary for people. After 100 years, no one would have to work for their survival. Keynes imagined that man would be freed from the overwhelming economic anxieties, the major subjects of future generations would have to use their time spent as technology and science would bring them to enjoy life wisely and peacefully. Keynes'predictions on technological development have been more and less successful; large numbers of automatons and computers have eliminated difficult and monotonous functions; evolution will continue. A study of Oxford University asked top researchers of the world's artificial intelligence when they felt that artificial intelligence would be superior to human beings in the various fields. North American investigators believed that artificial intelligence would take over over 74 years, while Asian colleagues said it would happen over the next 30 years. However, before long, artificial intelligence will be evident in most cases if not all. The challenge is to turn this into our best interests. If robots take difficult and monotonous jobs, it could bring blessings to many and possibly to the community. The problem is that pay is only linked to work, which makes it possible for us to have increased self - efficiency as a result of it. With self - efficiency, income does not spread in the same way that it has done. When the machines take over a few hundred people in a business, all the rolls will be left at the owner's place and will not be distributed to employees. Unable, this trend will contribute to a further misunderstanding and inequities. How will self - efficiency affect future labor movements? Imagine how difficult it will be to fight for more money in the future, since technology offers less and more efficient solutions than it is for human workers. Then we'll add these concerns to the globalisation and cheap working force abroad. In the present system where income and consequently yield to a job, workers will have little or no contracts. Teas will be held down because of the risk of either being reassigned to cheaper workingforces abroad or to robots. This is not going to improve when there is an extremely difficult position in the labour market. How do we force employees to improve their jobs in the workplace? How do we control those who are mostly women who do the invisible things in society, the most important things in society that are not valued for money in the present system? Children's upbringing, household support, and other priceless volunteer work done in various areas of society, working with passion, patience, and compassion. In turn, this essential contribution to the community is made up of unfounded subsidies, thus increasing the economic independence of women, and raising families from poverty. These questions and challenges for the future are the very reason why countries around the world are considering and experimenting with civilian pay. Finns have made a two - year experiment with civilian pay for unemployed and will complete this year's December. An experiment with civilian pay began about a year ago in Ontario, Canada, with the goal of studying the effects on vulnerable groups in the labour market as well as improving health and education in low income groups, with the objective of ensuring that all share the economic growth of Ontario. Four cities in the Netherlands have started a two - year experiment and are being considered to add more cities. An investigation began in Barcelona in October last year, the mayor of Stockton, California, has announced an experiment with civilian pay that will begin next year. There is also the game of starting with the next of the largest civilian effort in history elsewhere in California. President. I'll finish this review and ask the highest. A minister may have studied the ideas of civilian pay and the experiments that have been carried out around the world as well as those planned in the coming years. There is now a Parliamentary proposal that civil pay will be reviewed, and results of that work can lead to opening up and developing a discussion about the future of the social security system. What's the minister's position on the synonym?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u42	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for bringing up this interesting subject. She mentioned earlier Thomas Paine as the founder of the idea of irresistibly shallow living. That is true, but these ideas were no longer discussed in philosophy and politics. For example, I must name Thomas More and his famed work on the opium, which included. was tore up the idea of how to guarantee all the unprovable shallow advance as it is in modern languages, although it may not have made that exact promise in More, Ethiopia. Hv. A senator asked the elders if she had studied the ideas of civilian pay. Yes, I have. Throughout the 20th century, experiments have been made in this field. I was reading this book, which is exactly benefiting from an Dutch scholar who wrote an interesting textbook, including the Utopia for Realists. for experiments that have occurred in the Netherlands, which runs history, including To the United States and Canada in the 1960's, where a experiment on unprovable shallow progress was undertaken in certain rural communities to weigh and evaluate whether it was the right way to eliminate the present welfare system, if we can say so, and then, of course, I'm talking about unemployment improvements, disability, pension and all the systems we've built up, but I'm moving into such a basic process. The case reached a point where Richard Nixon prepared a legal bill on the issue that did not succeed. This discussion is not new, even though it now has increased weight, especially as a result of what happened. A senator here brings up the technicalisation and how it will affect our work and life. The discussion is provided in a very important social discussion, which is, in fact, the question of what will follow during the fourth industrial revolution. Jeremy Rifkin has reasoned in his book simply The End of Work that civil pay might be necessary because by increasing self - efficiency and increased motorization, machines and technology will take over more and more jobs and reduce the demand for employees, fewer work costs for others, and more will create their own work. There are very different opinions about the outcome. It has been noted that we have previously gone through industrial revolutions that were supposed to reduce jobs but that we did not actually reduce jobs but that there were new jobs, new jobs for people. There, scholars deal strongly with the reality of the effect. Since then, what ways to meet the loss of traditional jobs and whether they earn new jobs have been established. The evidence has also been that the public systems are too complex, designed by experts, and designed to make sense to people. There has been a very hot political debate that has handled those who have provided what we can call the Scandinavian welfare systems, which are about to build systems that encourage people. to work, that the unemployment reform system also involves work, that we give special support to those who are unable at all to get a job, such as disability, and that the support is in ways other than unemployment support, for example, and that certain incentives are built into the system, that citizens who claim to be citizens say that by removing all this system, they save money, and in turn, they can pay for all the conditions without basis. Then perhaps the biggest criticism that has been given to the citizen's wage, which is that there has been no practical means of financing over how to finance the citizen's pay. The General Information Service compiled a fine summary for one and a half years or so, in 2016, trying to estimate the cost of a government fund by implementing a small amount of civilian pay based on a minimum wage of 300,000 dollars. which was negotiated for 2018. The cost was estimated to 1,200 billion, which was 128% of the government's budget, as shown in the report. Obviously, the expense of the welfare system would be saved. The big questions are about whether a citizen's wage would be sufficient for alimony or what effect methodology would have on the ill - I see that I would need 20 minutes - to form microchip and those who can't get a job in addition to what they have. We need to answer the question: Is it possible for their interests to get worse when everyone gets unquestioning? [[The president calls.]] At the same time, we need to answer the question whether those who have the right to be rich even should receive unprovable basic progress from the State, as the ideologies assume. [[The president calls.]] Finally, Mr. President, I would like to say that I consider this interesting discussion, a discussion that we need to take to the scene of the Generalis. I can see that the committee of the future could take this matter into account and that it would provide these matters of opinion in an orderly way because we need to take a stand on them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u43	Madam President. In fact, I can agree with many doubts and speculations as high as possible. Prime Minister sets out. That's quite right, however, as if it's missing. administry, that this new industrial revolution will lead to a shift from workforce to finance, that the profit of technological development will remain for the economy and the benefit of the public will not recover similarly, in other words, in other words, an increase in the level of property. Although it is actually good for an enterprise to make money, it should not reduce the government's potential to ensure economic and social stability. There's some time for machines to clear up all man's work, and I feel that we have to go over all the ideas that ensure that the government can enjoy a good and a lot of cohesion. If the cards are handled properly, these technological changes have tremendous potential. We can see more production, which is essential for our ability to cope with increasing life spans and so forth. We can start producing an eco-efficiency product, which is a prerequisite for us to deal with the climate crisis. We could eliminate the world's poverty through this new technology, but if we are wrong, we can also experience an increase in possessions, fueling war, and throwing everything into flames. Of course, it is necessary to examine these issues, and in that respect there is the aforementioned proposal and this discussion of an excellent scheme, but mostly we need to examine the social and social systems, the tax systems, and how we should change them, and then, in itself, it is entirely the monopolies of civil pay. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u44	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank the prime speaker of this discussion for taking the matter on. It is often helpful to think outside the box even if I do not really like the idea of civilian pay. It's a system that does not involve self - help, that after considering the matter, I feel that it's a matter of self - help. This is a social security system that ensures each citizen minimum exposure from the government, regardless of the other income. So there's no motivation for it. The citizens are aimed at replacing the current welfare system and replacing disability benefits, unemployment, pensions, learning loans, birthday vacations, growth reforms, children's benefits, and other benefits that we use to preserve society and the least of those who have. Is the idea of an advising them and replacing them with all the lawsuits I listed earlier? It seems obvious to me, in short thought, that it would be less of a matter for those who are remembered and more for those who are good, as it were for members of the council. I suppose this would add to our pay, like everybody else, if I get the idea correctly. Civil pay could increase the discrepancies in the community that I think most of us don't want to see. Finns that are experimenting with civil pay are stopping it. The Swiss have turned down the citizen's pay on national terms. I think we need to take a good look at this, but I'm sure we'll have to look outside the box when we discuss the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u45	V.E.G. President. I appreciate this discussion. It's time. It highlights the superior position of a society in Iceland. In 100 years, society has gone from poverty to abundance, and we may now be in a place where we can begin to think of some system of things, such as citizens of the developing nations fighting behind and neck to feed themselves and having nothing but hands and ingenuity. That's why I now feel that this discussion of ours smells a little bit because we're very busy, we can let ourselves think like that, we have time to think about that, and we have the opportunity to consider that things like these while our brothers in other parts of the world are still busy with perhaps 80% of the time just right to have a knife and spoon, like we were 80 to 100 years ago. Of course, there is a fine price to pay for these things and discuss them. I remind you, it actually happened to a fine speaker just before I did, that Find experiment that was originally meant to be until two years ago was terminated in April, as it were, according to recent news. It began during a job situation in Finland, but as I have learned about my job in newspaper articles, the Finnish authorities have stopped this experiment and have allowed themselves to run out of work within three months of the loss of compensation. This case is clear enough to take place, but of course we should discuss it openly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u46	A respectable president. Here's a citizen's salary for a discussion that is an unmistakably basic advance by the government from the age of 18. The main evidence in this arrangement is that we are now entering the fourth industrial revolution, and the number of jobs will be reduced by increasing self - efficiency. This would facilitate the system and reduce writing. This, too, is a way to eliminate poverty. All of these are high goals that I would think could produce good social changes in many parts of the world. Such experiments have been made in a small village in Namibia, where poverty, high crime rate, and high unemployment rates have resulted. I can't see, though, that this model is still in the country. We've got unemployment under 3%. The human rights to ensure that all 18 years of our cohesion will be guaranteed by the government is not necessarily confirmed. However, it is our duty to ensure that those who cannot support their progress for any reason that we make in our Icelandic welfare system, even though we can discern whether such improvements are sufficient. A respectable president. If the local citizens were to be placed in this country, it is clear that there would be a significant cost for the state today. We'd have to go to a lot of tax and government cuts. What future policy is being taken, but ideologies are old and appropriate in the discussion when it comes to getting communities and nations out of poverty traps.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u47	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. I'm going to start by talking it over with something else. I'm going to start with one of the ugliest words I think is in the English language: we're going to do something for those less fortunate. This is arrogant, and therefore I say, 'The wages of the city are ringing in my ears.' It's a lot more beautiful for people to say, "I get a burger's salary. We can relate this to developing disability, it's disability benefits, social benefits, child reforms, interest improvements, housing improvements, etc. People are always saying, " Now we're going to make something better. ' You got it so bad, we're gonna make it a little better. Most of these improvements are so reduced, taken back. Then comes the strength; the strength of cars, the medicine, the strength of all kinds, the strength that is right for people today with their left hand; and even more, with the right hand, saying, "Well, you got a lot. " That's why I say, in this case, I want to get a burger, I want them to start there. Let's get all this out of here. Let's back up. Let's think again. So let's start with the burgers at microchip, senior citizens, unemployed, schoolmen -- let's start there. That would be a great start. I'm quite clear that this would do us good. Then, in time, we can expand it. We were talking about the less fortunate ones, and now I must be one of the more fortunate ones. I don't need burgers, but we don't know about the future. [[The president calls.]] If we start at the bottom, that's great.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u48	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen for taking this discussion. This is an interesting subject. Of course, the civil pay debate is not just in this country but in most parts of the Western world. It is true that the challenges we face are related to the fourth technological revolution, the technological advances, the expected changes, and some declines in our work all of us face. However, I have chosen to look at this only differently, and I look to what has happened before. The technological revolution is at the end of nothing more than a production explosion in the economy. That's what we pretend to provide. Of course, we will see the reality. It may be helpful to bear in mind that what has happened in such circumstances is that work time has grown strong, very short, and it is good to remember if we look back a long time. If we talk about the early days of the industrial revolution, there were hours of work in Britain each year about 3,700. There were almost no holidays and very long hours. In Britain today, about 1,850 hours per year have been halved in over two centuries. In Norway, workers' battle has traveled in a century from week to week to five, and if we look to Iceland, work time in 40 years has lasted from over 60 hours a week to over 40 hours. I can see as much that the technological revolution that we face will simply result in a much shorter working time than we have ever been used to. The trend in production increases as mentioned above has been that production has been changed between increasing pay and shorter working hours. Here we will likely see an increased emphasis on the latter, even looking at shorter hours and shorter hours in the day as well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u49	A respectable president. For one thing, Piratar contributes to a shorter workweek. Opinions presented here show the need for us to take this discussion. Here, our difficulty in understanding the growth of power is crystal clear. I have to explain it afterwards. At first, however, civil pay is not a minimum wage, the motivation for doing more is still there. There is usually an extra support for those who are less able to help themselves, such as because of disability, etc., let's take it aside, that's not a question of the matter. I'd like to take an example from the story. It is an example of a monk who wrote books. When the printing press was invented, their jobs ceased. They complained: " Should we just lose our job? Would we like to have monks in monasteries everywhere to write all our books? No, of course not. Another example is that of longshore workers. When the containers were made, they obtained a contract so that the containers would be placed on the dock and that they would remove the product from the container and put it in the nearest container, which was then put on the truck and drive away. Of course, that did not go on indefinitely. It may have been two years before people could see that it was just ridiculous. It's a two-way job where it counts. For example, when the monks were losing their jobs, people carried names of their work, a carpenter, a shoemaker, etc. There isn't any now. What we need to realize is that the speed of learning new jobs will always be greater and greater. The evidence that there will always be new jobs shows us that we do not realize that these new jobs will exist. But artificial intelligence and machines are much quicker to make these new jobs out - of - date, becoming quicker and faster. That is the reality that we enjoy. [[The president calls.]] We cannot imagine this from the present environment, for life span will then be shorter and shorter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u50	Madam President. I appreciate this discussion. I think there's a good reason why people are both curious and excited about civil pay discussions. I think that's even. Because the welfare system in which we live, as good as it is in many things, is not without blemish. There are too many people who have to rely on the system of poverty. I think that's part of why so many people want to talk about civilian pay. I think that's normal and understandable. It is difficult, however, that when it comes to terms with civilian pay, people are often talking about quite different things and they define what they should wear in different ways. I'd like to give you two examples, one of the basics that everyone should receive regardless of other income, an experiment that the Finns do by paying to those who are out of work. This is totally different. There's the sky and sea between us, and you're confusing the discussion because you never really know what we mean. Then there's a lot of other exports. I think it's important to keep it in order not to equalize it by getting equal from the State. As shown in the case of the highest. A prime minister is very expensive to pay the same amount from the state, but communities change. Icelandic society, all communities will change through technology change and self-activating. Of course, there is a need to respond and perhaps rethink some of the welfare system. [[The president calls.]] That's why I liked hearing the highest part. One prime minister says that this may be something that a future committee should consider, since it is about to consider what we can expect in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u51	A respectable president. I thank you for bringing up an important discussion that concerns the equation, the way we live, the distribution of stores and goods that all politics may be about. I am in the middle of this question mark myself. Is it unavoidable that technology will lead to such a reduced number of projects in the future? Will there be new ones we don't yet imagine? Although something is technically possible, does that mean that it is inevitable? We know these things that were on the television that were very young to watch. Do we not need to maintain a more practical knowledge that is in some way present? To work as well as you can, to take what you need. - That's how the human socialist reads from all the blacks at all times in the good community. It's the happy dream. On the other hand, here on earth the self - image of people and the idea of a good, absorbing life has been confined to hard work. Is the real word for Iceland, not a midwife, it's an art form, perhaps? What effect does being paid without doing anything other than being alive have on people? Is it finally free to take care of their interests, regardless of whether they will be on the market? Do people become confused and depressed when an important factor goes away from their self - image - getting a job, showing up on time, and returning? And how to finance? Who's the city? How should such a procedure be made in collaboration with labor movement? [[The president calls.]] And how do such wages affect our welfare community and our joint work on sharing the burdens and benefits?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u52	A respectable president. I want to, as other senators thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen for starting this discussion. In this discussion, the main evidence is that technology is destroying jobs, and it needs to be addressed. I think that technology is just the biggest opportunity we have to increase the equation and to make sure that those who need care can get it and that this care and service will be provided in a practical way so that in the future there will be more money to settle the cost and increase the progress that those who cannot earn more money themselves can obtain. I think we have to look at it this way. I think we should put more focus on this. If what's happening is that technology is rushing so fast, we need to think further about how we'll strengthen the loan system to students. How does the student loan system work or strengthens for study and so on? We need to encourage more and more to educate themselves because we want to, I think all of us, that everyone has equal opportunities. We must encourage and assist people to take advantage of the opportunity to cope with the changed world. That's what we have to do. We must not put on any system here to discourage the people's incentive to take advantage of the opportunities, move forward, and increase their value in the country to increase the equation. I think we'll increase the equation by helping people to take advantage of the opportunities.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u53	V.E.G. President. In 1902, a sixsome - year - old machine was first placed in Iceland, and it sailed away from Iceland. That's as far as I'm concerned. Today, some 103/412 men may board ships that had to be boarded in the past, or they may either win the catch on board or cool it off without ice. Roots make the stack, not the human hand. At the time of the land, technologically-designed machines function with water in exactly the same large units in order to maximise the cost of a limited resource. What has resulted from this? The number of fishermen has declined, just like that of humans in other elements, but there have been more varied jobs. There have been jobs that men never dreamed of here 100 years ago. I believe for the next 100 years, we will see this trend continue. There will be even more variety of jobs. We'll work a shorter day, but I don't see that we're all going to sit up on the armchair and wait for a replacement to do all our work, so I think it's a little further away. I'm not one of those people who said the Internet was infested, but I think it's gonna take a while. Of course, this is still a matter of discussion. There is, however, one thing we should think about. Yet, in all the abundance we live in, there are groups in the society that are in a palace and that we have not been able to provide properly. I am referring to parts of the elderly and to those with limited ability to function. While we can't feed these people, while they don't get a decent salary that works for them to do, I think we should wait for everybody's civilian salary only. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u54	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, talking about civilian pay. I also thank you for the best answers. Prime Minister and take this discussion into consideration. In a world where civil pay talk has become more attention - oriented, temporary, and poor, but ideologies are rooted in these factors, such as pa·rou·siʹa. The advisor was so fine in his history, as well as in the highest. Prime Minister. Understandably, we look for ways to build a welfare system on a different basis than the one we know, the safety network we know here. But the idea of unprovable forwarding goes beyond that, as it has developed over the years. Such a position needs to be addressed, and it focuses on a fair distribution of richness from common resources. Such a system, however, is not only thought of as a solution to the mismanagement, inequities, and poverty but also of an unjust exchange between common resources and the response to an increasing focal point of a complex improvement system in which people are classified. Some groups will be subject to the writing of such systems where equalness will be impossible. As noted in the discussion, there are significant changes in job practices, increasing technology, self-efficiency where the demand for work changes to at least. It's probably subversive. Then you need to take action. It is a fact that the number of jobs involved in the number of retirement workers is reduced. I think it's more on the subject of such a solution that a citizen's wage can be, but there's another debate, i.e. Real means of financing, if we're going to replace the system we know. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u55	A respectable president. The latest example I know of in terms of civilian pay is what was recently done in Britain. If I understood the right to pay a certain group in Britain of 1.4 million. They're trying to cut a third and fourth generation of poverty, which, of course, is brilliant. What can these people do with this money? Yes, it can be used for buying apartments, education, or saving. There is something else that we always forget about in the amazing system we have today. All government insurance agencies are involved in finding out how to impair people, how to get back the money, or somehow deal with the lack of compensation for the clients. The labour oce is then used to log in and calculate a job salary. Then comes the LAIN. So we have agencies all over the world that are involved in counting the same item with the related costs and human resources, which are basically in the process of doing the same job, work that could be worked easier by setting up civilian pay in this context. That's why I say this will prevent more writing, paperwork, administrative costs, and the expense of the system we've created today. All I'm saying is that it would be great if we just cleaned up, started on this ground, and simplified him real well. We could arrange for the people to receive an acceptable contribution that they could survive with dignity. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u56	Madam President. I think in this debate about civilian pay it's good to bear in mind, in order to keep out the discussion, that we don't solve a micro-energy pension system with the citizens, that will need other and more rapid changes to take on and as soon as possible. I hope we succeed here at the council, on the basis of the government's work, to solve the problem that there is a great improvement system. But I have nothing, as perhaps in my previous discussion, too worried that we will not cope with the challenges that will follow the technological revolution. We do not know how fast or how much changes will be. We may at times tend to overestimate it, but they too may fall upon us unsatisfied. How to deal with abbreviated work week, shortening work hours during the day, increases in pay as well as the foretold great increase in production - I trust the labor movement to meet the challenge with employers. It is good to bear in mind, at least in this country, that in the presence of technological progress and professional growth, labor movement has grown, but not weakened. So she will no doubt be well equipped to deal with this, how much work time should be reduced, how much to increase pay, etc. What I also think is worth keeping in mind for ourselves is that these technological changes will change our attitude toward employment; they will change our attitude toward education and, in fact, make education a lifelong subject. We'll have to be re-created all the time. The changes, if they take place as foretold, will be much faster and our education will be a life's work. We cannot expect to work at the same workplace for life, as the generations before us were used to. [[The president calls.]] We will always need to develop new knowledge and skills.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u57	President. I appreciate the discussion. I don't have time to correct all the misdeeds that have been presented here, but most of all, they are motivated to do and that people who are working at a job get their burgers. People pay natural taxes, and they zero the civilian pay so it's not as if they can work out that way. Prime Ministers and other members of Parliament raised many questions in their talks, and the synonym is thought to bring conclusions and answers to those questions. Besides, it doesn't have to be a reaction to the possible impending unemployment due to technical progress, it may be our choice to take a new course because technological advances offer us the possibility of doing so. Civil pay could eliminate poverty and thus reduce crime, increase health, education, democracies, independence, and innovation, and result in the loss of the power of paid people. The ability to say no to the employer would have e.g. Admittedly, there is an impact on the share of the remuneration of enterprises through better pay, job conditions, benets, etc. Efforts with civil pay across North America also show that there is an increase in sectoral activities, as shown in the Parliamentary decision. Is it not time to join other nations to investigate whether civil pay could lead to a more just and free society where everyone has the opportunity to thrive, a society in which we need not be anxious for the economic uncertainty involved in growing older, weaker, or in some way growing out of society? The prime minister himself put it well in his speech the last autumn, with the permission of a president: ▪ Officials must never refer to a dominant system to support a waiting period of righteousness. Politicians need to be prepared to make constant use of justice and to change the system if necessary. Otherwise, people's trust in democratic society is a threat, and that responsibility is something that all of us must shoulder. I'm glad to hear it. Minister feels this idea belongs with the Committee for the future. I think so too, but it doesn't have to stop us from starting this investigation now. We all have questions. This is an important subject. In what community are we going to live in the future? I think we should start looking at it right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u58	Mr. President. Thank you. Congress members for participation in the discussion, and thank you very much. Especially for speaking, especially for quoting prime minister. Prime Ministers are thrilled to see how the members of the council are diligent in quoting it in the public chair. The recent discussion shows that we are close to it. That is why I want to reiterate what I said at the end of my talk, and I think that the future committee that will be set up in the next few days should take up this matter in order to clarify what is meant. I notice that each of us is talking about the irresistibly shallow forwarding to what becomes the government's system, but then he talks surly. paritaprevir However, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's benevolence that this is also a means of welfare in order to add to the progress. I quoted the report sent out by the General Information Service 2016, and it shows that the cost is only under unprovable subsidies of 1,200 million per year. Since then, technological advances have been discussed. I agree with what. The advisor that there is no reason for necessarily linking this to technological progress, and this has not been linked to it. But I agree with the people here talking, that they may be way faster than people think. Sometimes I wonder if a council isn't just some part of my Šmatrix, to be honest. It may just be nice, we don't know anything about it. But we have a specific area to deal with exactly these matters. I'll name the future committee. I'll refer to a meeting area for increased prosperity that will address the issues of the fourth industrial revolution. My opinion is that we need to set the subject better and put down the questions we want to get the answer to, to form a plan to add another welfare system to the top of irrefutable frameworks, how this will affect the job and how we measure them, and to stimulate them to provide adequate pay for employees. If the government has taken the basic production in the form of minimum wage, will this result in the loss of the pay and the use of increased initiatives to increase the property status of the companies? [[The president calls.]] This leads to the question as a matter of course. Einarsson Logi Could this system simply result in greater inexorability? ' [[The president calls.]] These are questions that I believe are important to politics before experts work on these issues. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Therefore, I reiterate the proposal I have held here regarding the handling of these cases. [[The president calls.]] [[Laughing and applause at the council hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u59	Mr. President. There has been some discussion of a coming bill of new protection laws, including in unprepared queries as the dog. A senator here referred to a minister of justice several days ago. Following this, the Minister of Justice sent e-mails at least And when they were come to the council, they gave them counsel, that it would be good for the senators to use it to examine the matter. It makes me feel like a peculiar practice, especially in view of the fact that one of the big opinions is a administrative factor. This fine consultation is referred to in chapter 8 of the preceding article, but there is no chapter 8 on it. Second, there is no comment to unique articles in the bill on the confidentiality problem, but as people know who read complex legislation, an explanation is needed for a person to know what is being discussed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u60	A respectable president. Tip right. A senator made me sad because I was hoping that this would be a document that could be submerged, at the highest level. The Minister of Justice entered the seminar and told the Senate yesterday. However, I come up here to continue with my complaints only from earlier on in terms of the matter of my council from committees. Here we go. Two o'clock. The council members, and neither of them responded in a way that I would have wanted. The answer I would like to have, and now I'm going to order a speech, was the following: Of course, committees are taken off when members of the committee are trusting to form an opinion and return a party to the committee. That's the standard. That's the right answer. Then they can turn in a committee party that is different from others and that is totally fine. It is part of the concierge process and is a everyday thing. I understood a word. paritaprevir Ármannsson, the son of Aargis, so that this would now be some deal, as we know at the end of the council, when it is time for a talk period in a pont. [[The president calls.]] If these things are also meant to be part of some ballot in order to control it, during time and where cases end here, it's new, and it's totally out of control with plans to strengthen the council. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u61	Mr. President. This is not a comment about the per se conference board but more on the poignant use that has taken place in the Synod's fixed committees, which is the case with the president's need to know that he is in progress and must respond appropriately. In spring, there have been quite a good working spirit, good work peace, and much of it has been achieved on committees until now. There are a lot of fine things that have been treated well, and in fact, there is a growing number of cases in the government that have been treated badly. Yet, there is a tendency to try to shovel things out at the last minute. For example, do I refer to a bill about an Iceland lab that is so poorly worked that a short book might be written. But this new strategy has led us to the conclusion that now it has come and has been approved at the General Assembly seven cases from a professional committee, 11 cases from a State Department and 10 issues from a Economic and Business Committee, for example. [[The president calls.]] At the same time, there are three cases from members of the Parliament who are not paid off in spite of being ready, two from the Department of State and 11 from the Economic and Business Committee, just to take the example. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u62	V.E.G. President. Today's program has eight administrations to 1st. which we are supposed to gulp into committees so that these matters can be added to the matters that must be handled or may be done when we meet here again. It seems that these matters, which do not seem to be static, are mainly on the agenda and expect to be included in committees in order to prepare for some kind of stand-up payment from committees when we come back here after district elections. But not only, Mr. President, that the case of the government opposition should be taken hostage in the committees of the council, but it is a matter of affairs in the committees of the council because of the members of the controversies. A member of Congress is about to go off like a dog. paritaprevir Impressed by the sound of the Birgir's Ármannsson, we recommend that we handle a matter of minor concern. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What are we here for? Shall we begin to sort things out? [[The president calls.]] No, I don't think so, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u63	Mr. President. Of course, the state of the Senate committee is completely intolerable. It isler to say that Congress cases are not as handled as matters of government, cases of Congress that have been long under committees, visitors have come and the committees are ready, but they cannot be taken out because the government is not available. I'm complaining about that, Mr. President. I also complain that this afternoon's program is not a matter of changing the election law in the middle of the 3rd. It is a matter of Congress that was about to run out and become available for votes, but it is no longer on the program. I also express my dissatisfaction with that, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u64	A respectable president. The first thing that was done here at the beginning of a council was the same as always, the government situation was asked: What are your priorities? This put a little tone for the new process that immediately sounded like the old trick. This is what I think we need to revise. It's actually something that has evidently evolved into what is being described today, this new phenomenon that it's just when things are done on a committee, they've added: Well, no, not until we're ready to let them out of there. Here we are dealing with a certain majority, which is complete. We know that. For more part, except one thing, it is the freedom of the members of Congress. Somehow, the debate at the end of Congress seems always to be about negotiating that the senators will be silent. I agree with what. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson stone that may not be exactly what we're supposed to do. [[The president calls.]] We're supposed to talk about things, and we're supposed to talk about things here, not just in committees when things are done there. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u65	Mr. President. Exactly, agreeing with them were words from this platform, we are to be given the opportunity to discuss more matters here, speak a little political, and dare take sides in political issues that are parapolitic. There are some categories that find it hard to record their precise opinions, such as. to the hospital location or to what they think about reaching national level for the benefit of female groups. We know that part of the Independence Party is totally opposed to our accepting a pact of national agreement for the ideals of women's classes while another member of the Fine Party is in agreement with it. Why, though, can we not accept that discussion? This is completed by committees. Why can't you talk about it here? What I now fear as I watch the council program, a respectable president, is one thing - this is an example of us in the government's stand - and it's a matter of custom and customs. That's the 17th thing to do. This shows that there is not a great willingness to set matters straight ahead of schedule to resolve the situation. On the job committee, we were assured that it would be the highest. Agricultural minister was going to finish the case and pass it through. [[The president calls.]] But there is one manifestation that it is a matter of government that the government itself dares not bring into the council and that they do not trust to face the council. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's pathetic. I'd like to encourage the highest. To bring the matter of import into the program today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u66	Mr. President. I'd like to pick up the wire where it's at. paritaprevir The Birgir son of an Ármannsson came in earlier, this would be a contract on which cases could be taken off, i.e. issues that have been concluded, all agree on that, we bring the information we need in the process to start working the Committee, the information has arrived, people have started to work on the committee, the committees are ready. We have a situation situation situation. Whether they could leave the committees was meant to be a deal. That is understandable, but it is not perplexing. It's not a matter of business to win a case like that. Hv. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson of a year says that these contracts were not reached, because they did not get caught because they did not want to talk about the government. So things don't go away because the members of the board don't want the issues they have to discuss in the conference room. It's not a matter of business. What, then, can be done? Is it a matter of note that only the matters that the president of the Generalis will set up for the convention program will be discussed? We also want to have something on the program to say, and especially that it is a perfunctory way to handle the issues presented by members of the Parliament. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u67	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir A Birgir's Ármannsson spoke of the situation at the government opposition as being out of touch with democracy, as he put it. But what are we talking about here? What are we talking about? We're not talking about decommissioning the democracy. We're talking about the government's promises at the beginning of a council when the government was formed. We are talking about promises that had been removed, promises taken away. How's it been this winter? We have experienced a shortage, a serious lack of administrative bills, a serious deficiency, and we have often discussed this under the supervision of the president. Good things have come from a position of government. It went well at first. It was agreed that they would be measured and that they would be discussed in the following committees. What happens now? It's piled up in government radios, but the basics of the administration stand are frozen. [[The president calls.]] They're frozen in the committees.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u68	Mr. President. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on. The members of Parliament have done well here how the government and members of the Council held up the Senate's honor by presenting a case that could be discussed in this council hall. At last, when the government pleases to bring something and can bring something to stop everything from us. In some cases, politics is called chess, and some say a fox. In this case, the game is played, so the management team was allowed to play the first four games, then the management team is going to have the last 10, 12, 14, or what it is, the game. It's an uneven game. I'm sure we won't. I strongly assume that there will also be no good career for the government unless it is reasonable to let mature matters be discussed in order for the entire nation to hear, as it were. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir mentioned earlier, what opinions they have on them, even though this may be unpleasant to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u69	A respectable president. It's kind of amazing how we work on a welfare committee. It's not like this one case the people's party is on the committee should become a law. No, it was supposed to be 2nd. and it was totally ready to do so. This is so weird. How Would You Answer? ... awrong.? At the same time, another issue could not be removed because it was under discussion and something could be done in the future. One might ask himself, " Who are we talking to? ' It's just echoing. It doesn't make any sense what you're saying. If we're going to try to get people to respect the Council, I'll say, "Guð help us. " It is far from the fact that the public has respect for the Generals if such tactics are to be tolerated. I don't understand this kind of work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u70	President. It has long been immoral here at the council that, instead of getting causes from the committees for votes and payments, to simply strike or accept them, they are put to sleep on committees. This is especially true of senators, who are then remiumed year after year. It would be a real challenge for the council to discuss these matters at the Assembly Hall and to be lacquer. It would be a far greater challenge for the council than it would be for the court. It's like this government, because it doesn't agree on much, simply fear political debate in a Senate hall. As a result, it is primarily a work ethic for increased government spending and is willing to avoid political debates in a body hall. However, there are many very good matters here that would be worth investigating the will of the council, a case in which the government would humbly call for a release from committees.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u71	Mr. President. I must agree with the members of Congress who have talked about the need for us to increase the respect of the Generals and try to increase the respect of the people of the country for the political conversation. That's exactly what I'd like to call for, i.e. That we're gonna discuss these matters, that we're gonna get these issues in here. Not all 63 members of the body serve as members of each committee meeting. There are lots of cases in other committees that I can't have to comment on; cases I would be very interested in discussing here. It's both government-sponsored and proselytical; great business, good business, other matters that I couldn't agree with. But why not let these matters into the Senate Hall so that we can discuss them? What's to be afraid of, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u72	A respectable president. I'm not much of a chess player. To be honest, I'm a very small chess player. I'm not a chess player. I don't know any chess. And that's why I don't understand the chess issues here. She's too much for me. Nevertheless, I would like to agree with it. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson said here about the committee we're both sitting on, the General and Education Committee, and the good cooperation that has existed there, and the exemplary work force. Until now, there is some chess that is beyond my ability to participate in and that has caused two major developments, two fine cases, one of digital carpenters, known as girls' classes, not to come in here, but we all yearn to discuss these matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u73	Mr. President. Most or all of the government groups have national agreements that have general agreements and should be successfully advanced through the council. If you'll allow me to mention that, we're in the Gang of the People with a language that has a broad convergence. Then, too, we have a case that calls for them to be discussed here because I think that there are differences of viewpoints in these matters, although we feel that they are a matter of personal rights in behalf of those whose feet are standing. So I'd like to allow myself to encourage the highest. For example, a president would use a breach in the ice - age coldness that is all over the area and that allows him to decide that the matter, naturally known after a detailed meeting held with the president and the heads of Congress, will be restored to a proper and clear pass through the council. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u74	Mr. President. I have repeatedly spoken here about the lack of organization on the part of the government that will not create an emergency on our part. Then comes the second. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson of a year, an explanation of the government, explains that there are issues that somehow make it difficult to get through. ... anddisclosure. We have a time limit set for new issues on April 1. That is why we are in the opposition to government in putting these matters into the council by April 1. We were hoping for a very normal, fair process. Of course, new issues are not to be found after that time. So, all of a sudden, there was a lot of government cases, for example. Regarding a vacation contract with the Philippines, mentioned earlier, there was no need for much work to do in the Ministry. [[The president calls.]] The late arrival of this is a serious disrespect for Ministers in the time and design of the council. So I direct the president to stand up for the council and refuse to set up such a matter. It is necessary that we get a natural process, but we are not always doing what the government asks of us at times. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u75	A respectable president. I would like to encourage, as some members of the council have done here, that the matter of losing election age will be established. I think it's a good thing they don't put it back on. Quick treatment has been mentioned previously. We've had some problems over the years when laws that have been malformed have been malformed. It can happen that there are some defects and holes in the law. However, these defects were directly attributed to the hurry - treatment of the Generals. It should teach us that we should try not to plough matters through the council in order to prevent the obvious faults that arise because of this. Finally, I would like to mention that when the council went about a week into storage waiting for 1. before the General Assembly finally began to address the council for discussion. [[The president calls.]] It can be noted that there are about a number of cases presented by the Pirantics. If Piratars had not presented a problem, the council would have been discussing all the issues and could not have done anything, for no cases would have been handled.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u76	A respectable president. I just want to call it up where it's at. A well - being committee has given much thought to it that if we take the time we have a new member of the Committee to discuss the matter of Congress, I think that there is a debate about government matters in a couple, if not more, in the matter of Congress that has been discussed. I think we're working hard on the issues in there. It is also about the respect of the council we've been discussing here. What Is the Role of the Committee? Taking care of things and getting some understanding. Then they come with counselling and information to the council in the future. 2nd and 3rd...
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u77	Is it teaching?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u78	And that is what we have been discussing on the committee, what subjects are ready, and who are not. Many of them are getting ready and are well made up of the great time they have been given as members of the committee. One less. I ask: Is the government calling for us to complete all the issues mentioned today and discuss them here on the last day before the council leaves? Is that the big problem? [[The president calls.]] Do they want to talk in one day, all this stuff? Then there is little or no more informed discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u79	Mr. President. Indeed, there are many things to take and many of the grains of gold that have snorkeled here. As much as I have more opportunities, I want to use this to say the word. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir, where she spoke about the need for us to discuss matters other than those that go through the committees we're sitting in when they're ready. This is what it's all about. There has been a considerable discussion of the need for reconciliation, and there are conflicting opinions about who is to be reconciled to each other. But I'd like to mention a certain example. Thus, the Environment and Transport Committee was handled, Congress, in a most wonderful conflict. That was no less than three minor opinions. The case was settled, the committee is still functioning, the world is still in its place, the council is still at work, and no one is dead. I recommend that you take a look at this problem. We did it! We did it!
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u80	Mr. President. We are subject to the President's meeting board for a democratic procedure at this council. Today, there are many cases that stand to the fore. As far as we're concerned, there is great peace in issues that we call biofuel to digital carpenters. All classes have their case, i.e. Councilmen of all classes, and nothing particularly disagreements about it. Even if the matter has not even been established before the end of the council, it would be good to dissuade it from a committee. But it is all fixed so that after this recess it can be waved at our faces as a yellow root, so that we will now be organized and graced during this final days of the council. I'm just going to remind you of a case that the government said was going to bring, but it hasn't. This includes a full reexamination of the laws of honesty, which I've only been in before. We now know that those who have no access to this have no means of achieving a vote for the election to come. It's clear. [[The president calls.]] This is merely to remind you that more important matters could be on the priority of this government, and our case may, even if it is not planned, be out of the committee once.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u81	Mr. President. The headline or title of the Treaty, of promoting the council in particular, raised some hopes for changing practices. I say for myself that the committee I'm sitting on has been an excellent job peace, and things have gone well. On the other hand - and perhaps that is why - it will be so disappointing, once there are only seven days left under the Work Programme, that there will be 22 cases on the program today and one assembly case to cover the matter. That's the situation. And there are only a few days left of this council. It is obvious that the Councilman's affairs are to be salted. Keeping a good face, discussing them, calling in guests, but don't let them off the committee. [[The president calls.]] On the other hand, the government is to be arranged. They're all here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u82	Mr. President. Only in a different way: This has been a good discussion, has led me to think. As vice president, I sometimes have to sit in the chair of the President, and hence the entire Presidency. That's how it goes with a handshake between us as we step up. With the authority of the President, I could do a lot of things. I could close up the discussion about the current situation. I'm authorized to do that. But everyone now says: It would be a matter of misuse of power to do so. Of course, it would be misuse of power. Applying it would not be a grammatical way of handling the case. Now, the majority of committees, and the chairmans have a greater part in all committees, five while the lesser part has four, use their authority to stop the business process at the end of a financial discussion; it has been completed with the visitors; they are working on the committee's opinions and are stopping the matter from getting a financial presentation. I would clearly say, this is a misuse of power. As if I were using myself up there in the President's chair by completing a case, taking a firm stand, so that a trial is not reasonable in democratic matters presented at the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]] Yes, I would say that this is a misuse of power in our democratic community.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u83	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you what. Councilmen Vilhjálmur Árnason and Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson: Why are you stopping the social security proposal? Why do you object to that proposal? Is it an order from you officers to do so? Are you awaiting an order from the prime minister that this matter will not enter the council? Is that why? What are the members of the council afraid of this matter coming up for? Is there anything to be afraid of? The case is closed on the committee, long overdue, everybody knows that, but it's on you two years old. The members of Parliament, especially Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son, agree that this case comes from the committee. Why? Is this because the senator is opposed to a new standard analysis? It may well be. But the situation is that more than one member of the council, including those two, prevents this issue from coming out.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u84	President. I agree with the words of other senators, and I especially talk about disappointments. I must admit that when this adventure began with this new government, I was rather hopeful, for some reason. I thought to myself, " Maybe it'll be different now. ' But it started with a welfare committee, was just a really good teamwork, and it all started out well. Then two masks began to slip on me when I realized it, and it was said openly on the committee that no one should be allowed out unless they were completely at peace. It's said and people aren't even ashamed of it, like it's the most natural thing in the world. And now I'm beginning to realize that these matters are to be delayed and used in horse shops at the end of the council. In order for the government to take their own case against us in our memory. Is that okay? Is it that when people have been working so long in such a rotten way, they think it's okay to talk about these things as if they were normal and this is how they should work? [[The president calls.]] Let's change it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u85	A respectable president. I'm new in this field, so I have to say that I'm a little surprised by my work. In most of the jobs I've taken so far, even though a man can be in a conflict, he simply sits down and solves him; discuss his conclusions and finishes things. They do not necessarily agree, but the matter can be concluded. They always go to some foxy, some play, some exercises to kill things out. There's nothing but what's going on here. As has been noted many times in the case of diplomats, this agreement is to be held for the last days of the council. It's far too early to let the government stand for something right now. It's the traditional play here in this hall. Then there is the need to discuss matters much better suddenly; matters that many of us have spent months on committees. At the same time, however, this same proportion of directors is ready to slide the cases on an assembly line and at a flash speed, almost uninformed; cases that are still flowing into the 1st. Then there is no problem with their being more or less disturbed, both in committees and in the council halls. This is not an acceptable practice. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u86	Mr. President. I have to agree with the last speaker's words, OK? paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, even of the two-skins of the debate, i.e. that we need to talk things through, and suddenly we do not have to talk about them. I call attention to a subject scheduled for the council yesterday, which is much better discussed. It was discussed by a board of administrations and monitoring committees, the committee brought in a number of visitors. The case was taken to 2 Peter 3: 1. Um... went back to the committee between 2 and 3. Um... i.e. The matter of rural elections in terms of election age. It went through the 3rd. and has been discussed here, back and forth. I wondered if a 1st traveler and an executive in the case, right? paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson and Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé would be happy with this scheme. [[The president calls.]] They are members of the General Assembly, who watch their case in the hall of Congress. Well, this case has been reexamined.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u87	Mr. President. There has been talk of conflict between issues and political foxes. But I want to agree with what. Councilmen, especially in shock. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson, of course, that means it's a very amazing thing to do. Since I come directly from the labour market, both a public labour market and from rural society, I have to say that this work is not a good idea for the council. We could keep the cards so much better, and the new times of the council and members of the council much better than we do. It is not less to blame, the greater part of which long waited well for the hearing of a government hearing. I want to point 'em. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason's reason why the committees are members of Congress rather than government politics is simply that the government did not bring in its initials at a good time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u88	Exactly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u89	Mr. President. I admit, and there were many who urged me that I had strong hopes that many things would change with the government leading the left green, especially when two of our three main forms of administration, the legal authority and the authority, are under the leadership of the left movement ◯ greens. But what happens? It doesn't change. Worse, it's getting worse. The job, the conversation. In reality, these are matters that can be completely at peace with us on how we deal with them. But that is not even an attempt to stretch out your hand. I say now that when we're taking a break after, or tonight, until the county election, there's also a certain message in the local election how these groups work. What message is being sent e.g. the women class? Why is it not a pact of national agreement regarding the benefit of women's classes? Where do we see the government's proposal to try to achieve a transpirian agreement for the resource costs in the fishing industry? She won't get hurt. Where do we see, for example? something on the card about the bad guys who blew up our community last year? [[The president calls.]] There's nothing from the government. That tells a lot about those in it. That's what people will keep in mind for the local elections and when they walk to the board.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u90	Mr. President. I come up here where words were addressed to me from the platform earlier. It was claimed that I was the bad guy of a welfare committee, which is for itself an excellent standing. On the other hand, about that matter. A senator mentioned them as once attempted to get the subject out of the committee. The majority of the committees then felt that the matter was not ready. Since then, nothing has really changed. The nominee has changed nothing, has not been called to more guests, and so forth. The matter was delayed on the program this morning, but a meeting was terminated before the discussion was considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u91	A respectable president. I'd like to ask Mr. President what ratio is the members of Congress that have been approved at this council, when it is still less than a month until the end of the council, compared to any other council. Whether he has any information about it. I think it's just a little high. I want to tell you what. paritaprevir Elíasdóttir Furbífjörður Elisdóttir that it has been the administrative project for the entire time on the welfare committee. Also, it's nice to hear a lot of bad things. The members of Parliament talk about the importance of the opportunity to discuss matters and to vote for them. The same senators have not now paid for all the matters I have presented at the council and had long speeches for them, making them late and ill - mannered and slow to vote. That's what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson asked for it. It is true that the committee has received all the guests she considered to be entitled to, but she has never discussed the matter with one another and the visitors who had come to her senses. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] At what? to offer the council a proposal and a vote on a matter that each has his own understanding? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u92	Mr. President. Maybe I'd like to answer a question. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur the Year's Árnason with a yes. That is why this hall is made so that we can vote for the issues of controversy. It's as simple as that. We are to do research, make a decision, and then deal with the situation in this room. This is a process that the greater part has inhibited in all matters as one member of the council, or possibly two, is uncomfortable. This is the election age, which somehow is not too comfortable to swallow, so it disappears from the program. This is a civilian salary that is to be thrown into one of the committees instead of discussing it here and finishing its inspection. And for some reason, the majority of the majority, i.e., seem to be irritated by digital carpenters. that students and other partner students may have access to learning about the latest technology and science. It's kind of amazing. [[Up front.]] Yes, and exactly, improved women's position. Somebody in the government home must get irritated too. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u93	A respectable president. It's always fun to be surprised. It's just fine. Life is fun. [[Up front.]] Hv. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason asked about Congress. There are six members of the Parliament who have received full payment here, three of which are of the administrative side. All members of the same pack, restoration. It is interesting to hear a member of the Central Party calling for voters who have been given long talks for e.g. The 16th election must be done, not as a vote, but as a matter of reference to the government. I think that's what we're talking about. The members of Helga Vala Helgadóttir and Thorhldur Sunna Ævarsdóttir should speak a little better with their own colleagues in the government position if they are suggesting that the government is responsible for the fact that the 16 year's case is no longer planned. I would ask my colleagues in the position of government if they were. Yesterday, we had an excellent time to talk. The government situation talks a bit like she's just not involved in anything. More recently, there was a special conversation about the civilian pay, two members of Congress last night, one from the Archipelago. [[The president calls.]] Unprepared queries, they've been extended so the government has more time. We now had a long time, four hours, to discuss reduction of customs in the underdeveloped states of the world, the political groups took four hours to do so yesterday. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Why don't we talk till night? This is fun.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u94	Mr. President. Somehow, we need to get out of these foxholes, those wood, and you're gonna ride your bikes. Of course, hopes that this will occur when left greens go to government because they have been very powerful at pointing to the need to introduce new practices. That's why I want to pray to our colleagues in our left green, it's now only 15 minutes since they were in a position of government. You know exactly what we're talking about. I would especially like to point out that the president of the Generals, who has been a member of Congress since I was six years old, has been talking for 35 years about lifting up the Council, giving more weight to Congress. Now he is in a unique position to do so, to raise the legal work of a congregation. The Matrix is exactly the world of Congress. This should not be one of the cabinet offices of the Ministers. That's why I'm still praying back and forth to the left green. You're in charge now. Change it. This is a unique opportunity for you to achieve the changes you yourself have called for, even long before your movement was formed. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u95	President. I may be inclined to correct a minor understanding that came up in the past. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's case on the reason that there was no room for the central category on the welfare committee this morning. It was because this meeting was terminated, said here. But it may be said that the truth is that what happened this morning on the welfare committee was that we handled the government, the government case, and then we got involved talking about Congress, there was a lot of discussion, and we needed a break, and there was so much to discuss that time just ran out. I cut off a meeting at exactly the time it was supposed to end a meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u96	A respectable president. I refuse what was said here that in some way I have prevented matters from coming out of committees or working against the fact that cases were addressed and discussed in committees, that is not an option. The case we have at the Committee that is afraid to come in here is a matter of older citizens being allowed to work without impairment. There's already a law where they can spend half a pension and a half of the things that are completely illegal, which are much worse. Then we have a law not to be taxes, to be strong, to make medicine, and to give more strength. It may be difficult to talk about it because there's a right there with your left hand and take more with your right. There was someone who said no one had died, but I think there are old ghosts out here on a trip that's been set down because they're trying everything they can to stop the committees. I think all we need is a priest and holy water.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u97	Mr. President. Surely, there is reason to hope that the meeting will succeed in renovating. It's going nowhere, and we're not going to be any good with this going on. I'd like to allow me to guess that on account of our party, the Gangs, here are some subjects that we've had the ambition to get paid. It's like whisk. A senator said that just before we have this so - called holiday goal that we wish to be cut down directly so that people can, in effect, improve their self - survival efforts by working. We want to strengthen people's ability to buy headphones and a variety of support tools and tools that people need because of disability or old age are not counted as income. Similarly, we want income that is not enough for forwarding if taxes are not given. [[The president calls.]] These are the situations we're using ourselves for in this round. I'll hope to the highest. The president will take his place with us and help us get these matters to work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u98	V.E.G. President. I come up here to deal with a word. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur the Year's Árnason and what? paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son on the matter of local selection in a new national hospital. They said that the committee had not been well discussed, and this could not be done at the Hall of Congress. There are reviews in the Committee that aren't all the same, and that's why these things need to come in here for political discussions, so we can settle the matter. This kind of thing can't come in here with much peace. The people call for the discussion they need. This isn't something we can call in, and then we'll just vote on it one, two and three. This needs political discussions one, two and three. [[Up in the hall: right.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u99	A respectable president. I'd like to come up here very quickly in order to respond to any words. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur's Árnason of the Year back then, who saw significant injustices in handling matters on the basis of a new Hospital because there were differences in viewpoints. Of course, it solves a minority's opinion. Like what? paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson came in here earlier, we've recently taken care of a environmental and transport committee that had three minor opinions, if I recall correctly. And that happened... and no one died. [[To the point: And no one died.]] So it's an easy-soluble problem. That's what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson, the Otttar son of Proppé came in earlier then he's standing on a hole again, but we'll try to solve it. He is surprised that people don't think it's easy to handle matters incontrovertible terms, i.e. - I'm sorry, it wasn't my intention, I probably need to come back up here and spin you. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u100	We've got plenty of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u101	A respectable president. I actually come up to thank you. The members of Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son and Vilhjálmur the Year's Árnason confirm that it is those who hold this matter solid on the committee. They argue that the matter is not resolved, although it has been tried many times, but they always prevent it from being discussed on the committee. So I'm sure we'll ask who. paritaprevir Ólafur miss Þór Gunnarsson again: What is man afraid of taking care of the committee? We're just talking about the Committee. We're not even talking about the coming up, just from the Committee. On this point, the senator is not at all at all comfortable. I'm asking why? On the other hand, about this election business, I would like to point it out. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér points out that the Central Party has provided two suggestions on this matter in an effort to get to the greater part. But it's been hit. The majority have refused that matter. That's where I think it is. A senator may have taken the lead in trying to get some kind of landing into it. It is not as if men did not work hard to get it done in such a way as to agree on it. It's not like that. On the other hand, it is on a welfare committee where there is trouble. KINGs Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson and Vilhjálmur Árnason strongly oppose the fact that the localization of a new hospital was allowed into the council, through a local selection analysis. [[The president calls.]] It's not like we're having some big money here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u102	A respectable president. I'd like to respond to a word or two. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttar's son Proppér back here, speaking of the opposition to government as a coal, was referring in the sense of ◯Sherja. And that the government market is a kind of army that walks in one rhythm or another, with great harmony and so forth. The government situation is a multicultural society. I often don't understand anything from the Central Party. I don't understand his focus on the local selection of the hospital, I don't understand anything about it. I believe, however, that he should have gotten his way in the agreement that he was trying to make between the members of the council yesterday. Had it been normal for the Central Party to have entered a local selection hall, we were allowed to deal with it. [[The president calls.]] I probably would have opposed it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u103	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttirsson Proppé was so kind to remind me of it earlier, not that it took special attention to have had to do with the development of a certain situation. My colleague has brought a president. The Committee especially appreciates this. The fact is, though, that restoration, though powerful, is not unique to government opposition. We are part of a hard - to - do category, which when it comes to things like that, is quite interconnected, even though we are a population, like a rough one. A senator points out. We are united in our desire to change. I would like to point out the information presented on the matter of Congress, that it was also quite helpful to see information on the number of members of Congress that have been submitted because it took weeks and months for the government to support the Senate work. It is especially because of the fact that we feel that we are taking care of the situation now and are seeking the ultimate help. It's what a president's job is to do. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u104	A respectable president. I watched from a distance when treated with budget 2017. There was no more part in the country at that time. At that time, you often felt that you had to live a little bit over the General Assembly, since that was when all classes had to work across line lines. I remember an interview at the highest. A president who was talking about this new practice, how good it would be to have people do compromises on the contrary. And then people were able to land as big as sheep without any more in the country. That's exactly what we should do. We're supposed to be working across the line. We are to allow more members of the council to enter this hall, for they are often more political and diverse than those of the administrations, which are often fearfully technical and composed by government officials and often corrosive. We're here to talk about politics. Why can't we drag the political conversation we have out here in the hall and in the process of election into the hall? Why should this discussion not take place in this room to an ever greater degree? [[The president calls.]] Then we resolved to end the discussion with a vote. It's democratic, and it's a lot more fun. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u105	Mr. President. I'm still called in a punk, and that's fine. It has been discussed that this was the case with the government and no one died. There have also been cases of local selection of hospitals. But that is exactly the case with life and death. It is revealed in the review of that motion. There are eight of the eleven references, that there shall be no time to lose the matter. There is no reason to waste the duration of the council as suggestions that a large part of the nation has no interest in and does not want us to finish. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] Rather, we focus on matters that concern the nation's interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u106	Will you decide?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u107	We focus on them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u108	Will you decide?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u109	Do you have it?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u110	[[The president calls.]] Then let's get into that situation for a reason. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson mentioned that it had not been arranged and this morning can't be taken out. A member of the council as well as other members of the welfare committee said this morning that there was something missing in the committee's opinion. [[The president calls.]] It wasn't finished, that's why there was no way to settle the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u111	A respectable president. I was going to direct my words to the point. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otter's son Proppér, but I'm kind of going to have to let it go. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór, son of Gunnarsson, is the way that I must mention it. There is no good question about what seems to be going on. If this is the position of the man here who boasts that he is the wicked man of the committee. It seems that he was afraid to bear that title. I have to admit, I'm a little different. I challenge it. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson making amissary in this respect, because it's totally below all caves.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u112	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u113	A respectable president. I come here to celebrate the information presented and humbly confess to me a misunderstanding so far. In a matter of what. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi, the son of Sveinsson, said that the Central Party had regularly submitted an act of reconciliation twice and that it had not been accepted. I just humbly admit that I may have been too blinded by the case, but I didn't see the agreement, but it's good that I see it now before we settle the matter. I have a motion to make up for the case on which the value will be the 1st of June the next. Hv. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson proposed the change to the value value value of December 31, 2019, if I recall correctly. So I wondered, " Am I not just supposed to agree to get the case on schedule as soon as possible and accept the adjustment? ' I'll humbly accept that agreement, and we can accept the 16 year election age before the end of the council - let's remember that we're not postponing a council tomorrow, we're taking a break - and we're going into effect. A senator suggested. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm in.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u114	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason mentioned earlier that he had ever proposed a Senate case that had been spoken extensively in a pantua. It was quiet, let's just say what it is. He is likely referring to the drinking language he presented during his last term. At that time, I was at a convention, and I remember that matter very well. I've always told people that it's interesting, not necessarily materially, but because of what they do to the council; the government splits, the government stands divided, the commission gets upset, and the council room is always busy in that particular matter. It was a unique matter in that regard. What happened about that was that the General and Education Committee waited to take it out and it all went wrong. Among them was the whisk. A senator himself who complained bitterly that the case was not given his democratic treatment here. That was a good time. paritaprevir Will Árnason. He made it his goal to slow the matter down, and that was true of him. The objective, however, was not to destroy the case; there was no further evidence. They came, and a committee was resolved. [[The president calls.]] It was good, and that's how it was supposed to be. [[The president calls.]] That's the way it's supposed to be. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u115	A respectable president. Well, it's not all that seems to be the case. Why are your eyes so big, Granny? So I can see you better. Why do you have those big ears? So I can hear you better. Why do you have such a mouth? It's so that you could be swallowed, my darling. Well, it's not all that seems to be the case. The government spoke with graciousness, or should we make a bold statement of cooperation and cooperation, furthering the Council, strengthening confidence in the Council, allowing you to present three matters, each and every one. At times, there were widespread cooperation on these matters, widespread reconciliation on the subject, good language many of them. But what is that? Why do you have such a big mouth, Grandma?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u116	V.E.G. President. I'm sorry I've seen after what happened. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson from out of the hall, I hope it's not because I preached my coming to this chair. But I was going to point it out. It is not up to a senator to decide which subjects are interested in, what matters our voters are interested in. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] And it's not up to us to control how people in Iceland think. We're working for them, and we're supposed to do it faithfully. It just so happens. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, that it has not been a very long time since, a survey of capitalists was conducted to determine where the national hospital's future shelter should be, and to tear more things, the thought was not to be at the Ringway. Should we ignore that will? Is that why it is? A senator sits on this proposal on the committee? What interests does he have to defend in this matter, this why. Senator? I say again, it's not our chance, our senators, to make up for what they are interested in or not. [[The president calls.]] An insult to voters like this is rude.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u117	President. It's been a pretty quiet conversation. I described my pleasure with the Board of Public Education and Implicit and good management of it. The Chairman has left the hall but may be coming, but I'm so lucky that the other member of the board of the Committee is here. I would like to say that I hope that they will underlie my compliments. It's been about nine hours since I asked for an appointment. The General and Education Committee and the proposed number of members of the Committee have agreed to my request, so I'm expecting it firmly, because I've seen that they've been listening very well and scrambling over their computers, that they're writing the invitation and preaching a meeting on the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u118	A respectable president. A number of council members have come up here to declare their disappointment that the government has not kept much promise to further the Council in particular. I was not disappointed with the government in this regard. I know these people. I knew it was a trick. Always made me realize that. However, a respectable president must admit to me that it is an act of great insolence to proclaim the proselytism of the Generalist but then act in the way we see it, take the most urgent issues of government hostage, and then come up here, like those ringleaders, why. Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson and Vilhjálmur Árnason's members admit that they are not going to let this case go because they believe the voters have nothing to do with it. In fact, I have to make a special point. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson has gone through a vision far beyond that. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason in declarations in this regard, and in fact, it covers the whole series of thieves. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u119	Mr. President. I discussed earlier that it is extremely bad when two very different rules are being held out, one for the anti - government position and the other for the government, especially the government, are allowed to cross over any agreement rather than stand by the council and ensure that cases are properly treated. Today, there are issues on a program that have been ready for more than a year in the Ministry, but they still present themselves with variations, just because a minister does not have enough respect for the council to present them at the right time. It's totally unacceptable, and it's supposed to stop this kind of thing at birth.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u120	V.E.G. President. As you can see on the table-- well, now came one red--we expect it to be authorized to go on. But it's not like it's gonna happen in the last seconds before we have a permit for the county election. We also know exactly what this will be like, so the pressure will be put on this matter before the end of the council because it is a natural pressure on the subject. Therefore, we must ask ourselves, " Why is this matter not once brought into the council when it has long been pointed out by those who are interested in these cheeses that the promise is not being fulfilled? ' A respectable president. We cannot work forever in this way at the Council. We gotta get going.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u121	No matter the 4th mg. 10th par. Congress, for the duration of a meeting, suggests that a meeting meeting can last longer than the Senate dictates. Do they want a vote on the President's proposal? - So it is, then, a vote for President's proposal. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u122	Mr. President. I'm opposed to putting in here at night a meeting to discuss a case from the government that's coming all too late. At the beginning of this assembly, we in our position of government warned that this might happen many times. That we wouldn't have to spend the night discussing politics that come too late. I encourage members of Congress to show more respect for the council and to turn down these tactics and press the red button when the vote is held here for an extended assembly meeting this day before a six - month break. This is outrageous.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u123	Mr. President. It is now time to extend a meeting so that we can talk further about controversial matters, as has been discussed in the recent Senate Hall. This is a validation of a free trade deal between the EFTA and the Philippines, which we cannot say is a perfect deal for the state of Fonón. This is to reduce the right to treat foreigners'rights. We are going to discuss this just before a intermission. I object that we're going to have a meeting to discuss some issues here in some bullshit situation. And this is said ironically for a speaker.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u124	A respectable president. Based on the discussion that has taken place today, how and on what basis the committee should address a problem, I view it as a disagreement on how things should be handled, not only materially, but also how we will provide them with a course or with a station, which will happen if so. These are new workworks on the part of what I knew from the last term. It was not a device that was used. In view of this situation, I vote against extending a council meeting. Normally, I vote by that, i.e. If I can be at a meeting myself that night, because I don't want to have others for me at night and even at night, if I'm willing and in a position to do so. But in view of the situation we have discussed here today, I cannot be pleased to extend a meeting in order to provide the success of the program of the council today. [[The president calls.]] I suggest that when we get back together after a break, we talk honestly about the standards we're going to have, what we think is acceptable, and where the lines lie when it comes to progress. [[The president calls.]] Maybe it's time. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u125	Mr. President. Well, then we're back to this place. It's about spring, and the case of the government is late. Still, they are to be taken in and discussed until the evening. All right, let's completely extend the meeting to discuss matters, but then we'll also discuss the smaller issues, a case that is not even to be taken out of the committee. It is not a grammatical device. In fact, it is said that even if things have been done and mentioned ready, we are not going to take them out of the committee, and we are not going to discuss them here. What it really means is the President. He has the authority to extend meetings and ask the greater part to extend a meeting. But there will be nothing to it unless there is a solidarity at the council to work objectively. Otherwise, it won't be any of this time. Otherwise, the exact same thing that always happens in the spring, it will be discussed here until night, if it is changing, usually stops talking 12 o'clock. They'll just talk and talk about it and there won't be anything out of the meeting. No one's making money with this but, yes, the less part will be tired of the case, etc. and eventually something happens. [[The president calls.]] It doesn't have anything to do with everything. Then it's just the same dance, the exact same dance. [[The president calls.]] The way out of this is for us to talk about doing business at the council. That's what we've been calling for. The first step is with the president; calling for matters that have been concluded on a committee and considered from a committee. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The President has the authority to do so. Maybe we can do that when I go to the President's chair later, but then I'm probably abusing my authority. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u126	The president must state when discussing his authority in order to propose a proposal for the duration of a meeting that when the assembly was prepared for the week, it discussed meetings with members of Congress and with a prime committee on Monday, an extended meeting was held. Didn't object to it. [[Up front.]] The president offers his proposal in line with what he announced at a meeting with the council members and on the Presidency Committee on Monday. [[Up front.]] You should be right.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u127	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Ólafsson can do better because he knows what happened in that committee. Perhaps something has happened since Monday that has changed this situation. I would love to have a longer conference if we were to finish a case that has come a long way into the 3rd. ... let's just start with them tonight, and then we could talk about having a further and longer conference meeting. In view of the present program, I see no reason for having a longer meeting, nothing happens.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u128	Mr. President. We mentioned in the past that it's not meant to be agreed on by Congress Group Porta to agree with what the president suggests. This has been discussed in this public address. I also specifically mentioned this at the Presidency Committee when we discussed that it is not intended to be accepted by the Congress of Porta to extend a meeting. It takes all members of Congress to approve it. This is what we've been discussing in our council, and I've announced to the Supreme Court. This is especially true at the Committee to Presidency on Monday. You should be right.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u129	That's right. Always be right.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u130	Mr. President. I've made some changes to the roof. 965 on paragraph 16. The reason why I suggest this change is that this morning the Ministry of finance suggested that we have brought up the situation and made a change, i.e. The Economic and Business Committee, which may have walked all the way and is suggested to make changes to what we had agreed on: I suggest that, from time to time, make sure that enough money is available to go out. Of course, it is obvious to all that if something happens here is so great that we may not expect it to be in itself. I just want to add that Iceland's natural disaster insurance, or the old policy, is an enormously powerful firm, and with a means of payment for over 80 billion and is permitted to borrow 34 billion by the state's responsibilities. As a result, we have an enormous amount of payment, but we may have walked a full length of time. Hence, this adjustment is proposed. I'm asking her to get quick and to give her a quick speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u131	A respectable president. In time, I just can't put my words together. In effect, I have to say that there is just something non-concerned in the fact that this should be on the program, a petition from a government committee, where there is a complaint, and a complaint on the request for a matter of Congress treatment, and then there comes a chairman of a committee, asking for a hearing to agree with a change proposal without allowing the committees to discuss the matter, study it, and study it. It's like looking in the mirror, just looking at a reflection of the discussion that took place earlier. To say that, I just came up here again because I simply couldn't put my words into words. But this is a matter of speech, and I will vote for it. I just wanted to draw special attention to this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u132	A respectable president. As you can see when considering this matter, a farmer's Department of Pension has had doubts that if the law goes away, he can live up to his current commitments. I just wanted to make a decision here that the committee took a very close look and talked to the people who had asked to be interviewed. It was requested that we seek the opinion of the FDA as well as the committee. I wouldn't vote with this case unless I were absolutely convinced that these laws could be canceled and that farmers' Pension Fund will remain related, not only allowed in my opinion, but directly obliged, to stand up to the rights of the noble pension fund. I also want to thank the Committee for good cooperation in the case and especially wishes what to do. Chairman of the Committee, what? paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, congratulations.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u133	A respectable president. I missed the fact that a president responded to the indications and questions that were raised in recent discussions about the President's conference board. Especially do I feel that there is a clear basis for a president to act now that we have seen or heard how things work out. The welfare committee. For example, especially this is true of the suggestion of local selection for a new national hospital. Hv. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson came up here and simply explained that he felt that the council should not be allowed to handle the matter because the people did not want to do anything about it. It's, of course, totally wrong food, as the surveys have shown. As a result, I feel normal in the highest. The president intervenes in and tries to share matters between government and government opposition so that, of course, people conclude that some of the fundamental issues of the government will be taken care of by a committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u134	V.E.G. President. I come up here to pray. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson to reexamine his mind on the matter we're discussing here, the statistical analysis of a new national hospital. It is, I think, by definition, at least I do not recall from 2009 that a senator was standing in this symposium with such an inconspicuous statement as that of a young man. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson that it doesn't matter what the case really is; he just intends to stop it because he thinks it is against them. However, it has been pointed out that this is simply not the case and that research shows everything else. We must encourage a break in this meeting so that the committee can gather and settle the matter. Hv. Senators who've been stopping it, and especially now. A senator who described himself here as the leading instigator and opponent of this case and boasted about stopping matters can change his mind and finish the case on the committee. I don't have much hope that tonight's program will be arranged, but it could be discussed after a break. This is my tip, topv. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u135	Mr. President. The Council's president has the authority to appoint a case from committees. I examined this at the time to see if the committees really have the power to stop a case they don't have. The president can say: the case is closed or the case is well informed, now I want it out. I'd like to mention this power and talk about it. We do not want to get involved in the fact that if a matter is still being discussed, the part is still calling for information in this case, which does not apply to the subjects that have been completed and are working on the committee, and we are talking about the fact that they are not being resolved. We're talking about the fact that committees are not being resolved before the issue is resolved, before they are fully declared as such. Budget plan. Now it is delaying in providing adequate information so that we can take an informed stand on these matters - should we still take matters off? A committee can be stopped unless we want to discuss matters before they are resolved. Does this mean that the discussion needs to be stopped before they are accepted from the committee? Will the President call for a hearing from a committee at some particular time? As the council nears its end, let us look to the existing authority and the possible abuse of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u136	Mr. President. I'd like to propose to the president that he will interrupt this meeting and call the Councilmen to him to review the situation at this assembly. What's happening here is not a good thing. They're accepting a long meeting for a bill of directors who have come in late. There's been some changes here that no one has ever seen, in a vote of two and ten, without a discussion in a committee or a Senate hall. This is followed by a Senate case in the freezer. I think, Mr. President, we have to sit down and review how we're going to continue into the evening. Since we have agreed to continue this meeting, we need to find out how we are going to face the issues presented here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u137	V.E.G. President. I'd like to challenge it. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson to inform the World Congress of what survey or what information is fundamental to the words he was living here, that the nation had no interest in the future establishment of a national hospital. As I put it in my speech, in this introduction earlier, a huge majority of the capital population want a new national hospital to rise in a new place instead of on Ring Way. I dare say that if all the people had been asked, this would have been even more decisive. If she's only based on hunches what? The senator, this grade he gave to voters earlier, must be based on presumptuousness.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u138	Mr. President. Sometimes you feel like a world of Congress is talking a little bit into nothing. We were discussing the President's conference board for an hour and a half. We repeated questions to the President of the Generals, sitting behind us, and getting little or no answers, and then we just keep going. It's like it's President's intention to finish. Every senator can come twice for a minute, underneath the President's conference board, and it's like the plan is just to drive us out, let us blow, and then it just keeps going. I don't think this is the kind of work we're supposed to do. I'm surprised to hear it. A president uses these tactics, which I know he has repeatedly criticized in his time. I want to say something. Harðardóttir It's a matter of meeting here for Congress. There is no way that we can get answers about how Congress work will be continued. Will we be until midnight? At midnight, the legal day of the church and the community begins. Will we be longer than that? How can this be? I would love to encourage the highest. To have this conversation with members of the council, or presidents, of the classes. [[The president calls.]] Everyone sees that these tactics are not a credit to the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u139	A respectable president. I'd like to mention the matter again about the election age. The evidence was used in the case of the above - mentioned nonsense that could not be resolved. It was, with all votes but one, agreed to change the election age from 18 to 16 years. It was all the nonsense. In contrast, we now have a vote of 29 with and 23 back. There is even more disagreement in this way. That's where the government opposes the government. That, if something is, should be considered a lot of nonsense. With the same reasoning that was used to try to stop the fall of election age from passing through, you would think people would stop and say, "No, I'm not gonna be hypocritical here. But it would be quite a story to the next town, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u140	A respectable president. I feel that after the discussion that has taken place here, about the President's conference board, there's going to be a discussion between the council classes and the presidents on what to do. I realize that a respectable president considers the committees independent of his work, and that's good and blessed. But how the work force should be handled needs to be straightened out. The majority, the government rather, spoke of it at the time to further the work of the Generals. If this is an extra weapon the major part is going to use, not to represent members of the committee of the minority unless all committees are on a united committee, the power that the government has at one time over the Congress work. There's a story to the next town. It's important that we talk about it. I agree with the motion that there will be a recession at a council meeting, and the president will meet with members of the council to discuss these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u141	There are still four, five on the rosary that wishes to speak to the President's conference board. The president intends to respond slightly to what he has been directed when that rosary is emptied.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u142	Mr. President. I'd like to talk about some quality practice. We were before to vote for a change proposal that came here abruptly with a bill, a change proposal that no one in the Senate had seen, a change proposal made by one of the members of the council said he had received a tip that had been made in a lawsuit on the Committee, and after a case was taken off the committee. We all had here votes to trust that this guy in a town who pointed to the mistake after a case was dealt with at the Committee after a number of people who were expected to appear before the committee sent in reviews, etc. What kind of work are you doing, Mr. President? How should we really trust that we are not accepting some nonsense? [[The president calls.]] I just don't want to be part of this shit.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u143	A respectable president. I come up here to join us in the most natural and loving request of the United States Congress members that the president interrupt meetings and sit down with us. I also took note that the president said that he would respond to this request when the rosary was emptied, so I don't really intend to delay any further here but wait for the President's reaction. I think it's more than just a matter for us to sit down and go over this to get some job done here in the councilroom.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u144	There's been a considerable discussion with the President's conference board today. The president does not intend to put a stone in the street that they will receive the word that it chooses for that matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u145	Mr. President. Of course, I now agree to the request to postpone meetings and meetings with members of the council. There's obviously a lot in the President's conference board who's running governments in 1st. Even though they're all too late, the rules in behalf of the government are repeatedly being shaped at the expense of the less part. Furthermore, we have approved an extended assembly meeting in a nonsense dispute, such as at any given moment. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson mentions, as well as the Synod's committee has become an unscrupulous financial center for quirked ministers. This is a distressing problem. Now the president has twice made comments between talks in the President's conference board. It is hard to believe that there is no way to know what the president intends to do without a rosary being emptied out of that kind of comment that always comes from here on out.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u146	The president has a few problems, whether to stop discussion and start an answer, or whether he will be able to do so when a student file is emptied because the members of Congress have a general right to speak twice, and then they can respond to the reply of the president. I just want to respect the fact that men ask for the word and want to discuss the President's conference board.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u147	President. All I want to do is come up here and say that I'm willing to announce a meeting on the welfare committee to handle the Senate matters that are ready. We've got four senators' business ready. Three of them are from the lesser part. There is the local analysis of the Hospital. There's a decommissionment of income savings for seniors and citizens' wages. I know that the authors of these cases want things out of a committee. I'm ready to take them off the committee. I understood by the fourth case, which is progress, that it was not willing to be taken out of the committee today, but it may be. But I just want to let you know that it is a good thing for the head of the welfare committee to handle these matters from a committee. I propose that members of Congress meet with the president and we discuss whether this case cannot be negotiated, receive a democratic discussion here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u148	Mr. President. I simply want to come up here to sign a recession at a meeting and for a meeting at the highest level. A president to discuss the Senate up ahead. I know that there are some cases in the General and Education Committee that has been asked only for some reason, perhaps. Because we haven't been put in control position enough. A case ready for committee is not taken off the committee. I'd have every reason to be the president of the White House. A top-of-the-art Board of Education would be a good example for the head of the welfare committee, huh? paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, who proclaimed a meeting here in the recess, if it's the will of the President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u149	Mr. President. I just want to discuss why our proposal cannot be taken on and settled from the Committee regarding the local selection analysis. There's one group in the government that's been totally in favor of going into a local selection analysis. Then you can quote a press conference held in October 2017. There they attended a press conference, and it showed that the mob fears that there is a serious mistake at a local setting in a new national hospital. A roundway is an unfortunate location, a great deal of activity there, and a traffic vagrant is already unable to make traffic in the vicinity of the hospital. We find it wise to start an independent assessment, including with foreign experts to see if a new hospital cannot be built in a new location. This comes from one of the government groups, the forward squad, so there must be ways to get us to discuss this important subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u150	The president would like to state at this point, before he begins to give the word a second time to discuss a meeting board, that there will now be a brief break in this meeting, a break in the evening. It would please the president, and the president believes it would be beneficial for the chairman and the chairman of Congress to join them. So, at seven o'clock, we'd call this meeting to 7:30. Second, the president wants to say that what has been happening here, in discussions about the President's meeting board today, is mainly the work of committees. As noted in the case of some members of the council, the field is generally to discuss their work on the committee. Of course, the president does not comment on this, even if a person wants to talk here in the hall if he is unhappy with something that would be a major factor in the work of the committee. But, after the discussion of the day, the president must say that all too much is involved in the lack of proper discussion of the words and position of other members of Congress on closed meetings in the council committees. The president reminds us that it is the general rule that men, out of closed meetings, separate only from their own views and words but that they do not take the responsibility of reporting or delivering their words out of those meetings. The meetings of committees are closed unless there is something special, and they open up, which I know many people are interested in being done more fully. But this is the way it is, and the old rule, which the president was taught in these matters is simple; it is simple: people report what they say themselves and the position they have, but it is not their job to present the other members of Congress and the comments of other members of Congress who fall on closed meetings in a Senate committee. The end of that speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u151	A respectable president. In view of what a respectable president was here to mention, about what is presented at committee meetings, I feel more and more complaining about the fact that things are bad. Somehow, members of Congress must be able to communicate with someone who has something to say about how things are going. If it is not a president who is not in charge of any of the committees and it is not to be spoken of at committee meetings, how on earth are we to deal with such problems as the ones described here? Should we have kept quiet? Hardly? We need to be able to talk about what is wrong. I think it's growing in general, not just in this case, the requirement not to talk about anything. I called myself up here to a conference board to point out that in the last term, when he was a problem, an exact man, and an organized man named Einar K. Guðfinnsson was president, he spoke entirely between the members of the President's conference board. That's unusual. There's nothing to stop it. [[The president calls.]] I don't see how it really saves time, but I see how it wastes time, waits until all the sequence is here, and then answers. [[The president calls.]] It would be far better for all to know that they were just answering right away. I'd like to ask a respectable president why he chooses to do this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u152	The president may have a problem, for it is often a long list, the House Hall of Parliaments, who would like to speak to the president's conference board and not all of them necessarily the same. The president then waits and gathers what is directly involved, and he needs to evaluate the stage of the discussion that he will take into it and responds or responds directly to it. Sometimes members of Congress direct matters that he does not see why to answer, simply because it is not in his power to do with what is said there. Of course, regarding the work of the Parliamentary Committee, the president has a general obligation to ensure that Congress procedures are performed in accordance with the body of Congress. This may apply to the work of the Parliamentary Committee, but it is generally necessary for a president to intervene in the work of a committee, which is the nature of the matter, as it were, very important to be independent of their jobs. Regarding what the president once said about the confidentiality, he wants, to prevent all misunderstandings, to say, of course not, and to take note of it, that no general work should be discussed on the council committees, e.g. in the end of the council or because of the President's conference board, although the rest would be better off. What the president was referring to is the very simple rule of communication that is desirable when a certain senator's attitude is expressed: It is the simple rule that humans tell their own words and their own position, but generally do not take in to be publishers of the one that other members of the council have or are standing at closed meetings in the council committees.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u153	A respectable president. I would like to ask a respected president about the confidentiality discussed here. During the days, I said that there was a certain opposition on committees, a state of inadequacy in responding to an information request. Someone's words are not to be quoted directly. There I am describing my experience and my sense of how things are going. I can argue very well how I come to the conclusion of using this description. But I am certainly describing a particular work that is carried out on committees. I'd like to go to the president to see if it's too far gone, for I was rebuked as a confidential committee. I wanted to go to the president and find out what's right in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u154	A respectable president. As for the confidentiality of committees, my understanding has been that it is forbidden to give a direct witness, word - for - word witness, but, of course, one has to be able to discuss what is under committees. In this case that I mentioned earlier, in the case of the local situation for the Land Hospital, a member of the Management Board came up here and described his position on the matter and how he has approached it on the committee very clearly, he himself described it, why. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson. I wondered, a respectable president, whether the president would agree with me that it must be considered an urgent matter. Now they're trying to get ready to go out for the project, just over the next few weeks, so the council must want to handle this case as soon as possible before they take the next step on Ring Lane.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u155	President. I think it's ridiculous. We've been here for quite some time to describe to the president the state of the Council. There is a serious situation in which members of Congress are not being allowed to discuss the percentage in a democratic discussion at a council. And the President's answers to this are that we can't talk about this. We can't talk about what's going on in the committees. It's crazy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u156	The president asks why. A senator is not to take words or to adopt opinions. That's not exactly what the president said before. But there may be no reason for them to reason on these things. The president prefers not to comment further, rather discuss it with the officers of thefasting committees, and generally consider that we try to improve our work together and discuss matters beyond the council's walls.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u157	A respectable president. The President's got a few problems where the mess that we're discussing here is mainly part of the committee's committees. Of course, the entire range of the president's shoulders is important. It's all going well. Regarding what the president said about the position of a 19th - century president. Congress that the word can't be quoted directly by the generals or by visitors at meetings, if I read it just before. Now we have a little problem. When we discuss a response or how members of the Parliament react or behave on committees, what stage is there to discuss it if it is not here? This is of little value to the Senate because this period is so brief and reserved, but it may be that the president is directed to us in another way to members of the council, i.e. that it may be the problem. A senator was opposed and prevented. [[The president calls.]] Maybe that's the way to go. But I believe the President is a little sorry for this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u158	Mr. President. The president is certainly in trouble, but here we are dealing with the work of the committees. I must again make up the subject of one of the committees I am sitting in, i.e. on the Environment and Transport Committee. It is not that the greater part does not agree to represent my share as a member of the committee, since there are no senators in that fine committee, but it seems that the greater part is preventing a political issue from leaving the committee. It seems somehow that there are still 20 cases of inadequacy to be settled from that committee. Of course, there is a measure of concern when so few days remain before the council leaves on vacation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u159	A respectable president. I wanted to come up for a moment and tell about my experiences that this time I have the highest. The president said that there is a need to be cautious about what is taking place in committees. Considering how. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson expressed himself earlier, I feel that by a complete contrast to what committee members of this committee have said gently about his conduct on the committee. I just wanted this to happen here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u160	Mr. President. These are the most useful lessons for the council at all. That's what it says in the 19th chapter. Law of Congress, by permission of the President: It is illegal to refer to members of the committee's comments or visitors falling on closed committee meetings except by the person's permission. It states that no direct witness is to be given. I was on the Presidency Committee once, and an unnamed employee, I'm not going to testify about who it was, pointed out that there was something there that was named ◯chatham house football. In that case, I find it here, it says that in meetings that are under the rules it is free to use the information presented, but they do not identify who it really is that information. It's tighter than the Senate law. It does not say that a person's position must be ignored. We'll do it with all the guests who appear to the committee. We quote them and say: "The attitude of the party who rejected this and came before the committee was this one and this one. There is nothing that forbids us to give a witness to the position of any other senators, and if that is not clear and how humans are putting themselves in the way of a trial, it is only a very great democracy that the people know how the ideal agents operate, even mismanage their authority. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So there's nothing against us.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u161	The president made it clear that he spoke of old and good traditions. So it is in this house that there are laws and regulations, and then there are rich traditions about many things that are being done here, unwritten rules that may be honored.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u162	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct any change in various laws due to action against tax collections and tax frauds. This is a case of No. 561. The bill suggests changes in tax laws, which include: is based on three groundwork groups from 2017 on anti-llum wives and tax evasion initiatives. This is a report on the extent of tax charges and suggestions for action, the cover-up and the fragility and the tax due to foreign tourism in Iceland. The motions of the groups were many and varied, and the first phase is expected to include changes in foreign employment sources, including tourism agents, who are worthy of a national tax service to register and return a valuable tax through a simplified electronic registration system and to the toll manager's licences to remove vehicle registration signals have not been established on the legal transport fees of a car. This includes changes due to comments made from the EFTA Institute of Observation, which have to do with partner complicity. The bill also provides suggestions on how to change the labour market salary requirements for remuneration. It is necessary to further define the responsibility of the remuneration worker on the local labour conditions or other employees who are renting out workers on the basis of their work in this country. There is also a suggestion that a standard payment fee will be set because of the temporary import of a foreign group of vehicles into the country, or other vehicles to be used for employment, rather than the calculation of the estimated rent per 1/60 parts of the tax price. The proposals of the work groups, some of which require longer recovery, will continue to be used. I will now discuss some details on the unique subject of the bill. First of all, I'd like to agree with a partner. Residual legislation on income taxes is implemented, so that partners in the Member States, Member States of Europe's Free Trade Association, or the Faeroe Islands, located on the land, will be allowed to agree with national bodies. The proposal is submitted to meet the EFTA assessment by the European Commission of April 7, 2016 of the European Commission's European Community legislation against the EEA Convention on Confirmation and Free flow of capital. I also refer to a formal announcement of the surveillance agency dated March 27th of the past. The bill suggests that the same abnormality applies in the case of a fixed clinic as in the case of a granddaughter's society, i.e. that the requirement for holding about 90% must have lasted all the due year of account, except for recently formed or fixed clinics, or to a daughter's partner, or to close a fixed network. In addition, it is suggested that loss to a fixed employment station under the income tax laws will only be deductable in an Icelandic society that the loss of the foreign body is not equal to the loss of the work force. In recent years there has been a large rise in the flow of labour force in the European Union and the EFTA countries through international labour contracts, and Iceland has not been part of this trend. There are many cases of foreign people coming to the country and working as contractors for the domestics. The procedure, however, is often the fact that the workers of the foreign organisations are actually invited and are in every way like the rest of the domestic labour workers in the administration and responsibility of foreign parties. When such a situation exists in the taxable sense, it is referred to a "impulsive contractor," i.e. when a person is acting out as a contractor but has already considered the legal status of the employee. In view of the large number of foreign workers that have come to this country the last loss is that tax authorities are struggling to match each time the actual agreement between employees is secreted, whether under the qualifications of employees or contractors, including in the form of qualified employees. As a result, it is possible that government funds and businesses will be deprived of taxes due to foreign labor in this country, as well as the lack of payment on these men's wages. Or you might assume that pension payments for their work are not kept and returned correctly. In 2007 there were changes in the laws on local payment of public pay to respond to the Supreme Court in the case of Imgilo SpA, a branch office in Iceland, against the United States. The changes included In particular, the provision of a standard law was changed so that the user considered the payer to be the employee on the basis of contracts on the labour force, but not the staff rent, i.e. If she didn't have a tax estate in this country. Along with this change, changes were also made in insurance laws and insurance insurance laws and the operation of pension funds. The term "employees " as it is stated in the laws on employee care has led to the fact that the tax authorities have thought they were bound by the narrow understanding they already have in explaining the concept of public payment, and that the term in terms of taxes should be of only the written staff that has the sole purpose of renting out employees. With the changes now proposed by this bill, i.e. to add a law on the payment of public remuneration, or the words of a person renting out a workforce, is clearly stated on the reimbursement of the remuneration payer in the case of forced labour, regardless of whether the sufferer is committed by the registered employee or other authority. The bill is also suggested to be taken up in the country to form an electronic registration system for non-employees who sell electronic, telecommunications, radio, and television services. The aim of the change is to simplify the collection and account of the value of a foreign employment company in this country, in line with OECD proposals on the benefits of simplified registration for sale of electronic services between countries, and can be referred to, for example, for example. to the OECD report on the successful collection of cost taxes, published on October 24 last year. Thus, the objective is to limit the tax-employment requirements of foreign companies for sale of certain services to individuals and non-employers in this country. With the change, the tax pay of the state's funds will be even more successful, and the competitiveness of the local and foreign agencies will be improved. At the same time, it is suggested that foreign employment companies who sell to land in subscriptions and magazines on paper form as well as those from abroad who sell valuable tax-related services here will also be authorized to register with a simple registration provided that sales are intended for non-employees in this country. The concept of a business enterprise refers to an enterprise that operates as a business enterprise, i.e. is regularly self-employing in a certain degree for the economic purpose of achieving profit. And it has to be said that this term use may not be in line with general language, since it has, in my opinion, been in companies, this definition, but here it is, in particular, a business enterprise. It is suggested that simple registration be performed by the national taxpayer's electronic registration system. The implementation of the electronic registration system, as suggested in the bill, will, in turn, lead to increased efficiency and prowess for foreign companies. In this regard, it is noted that the nature of electronic services is that businesses can provide a number of buyers in different countries without a permanent staff or clinic in countries where hired ones of the ministry live. This results in the high commitment of international employment companies to pay due taxes in many countries, even though they do not have domestic stability or a permanent employment station in the country of buyers of the ministry. To facilitate increased simplicity and international commerce in the case of electronic cross-border trade, this bill provides a recording of the simple registration system in this country. Within the EU, for years there has been an electronic registration system for foreign jobs outside the Union that sells consumers in the EU services provided by electronic, telecommunications, radio and television services to simplify foreign companies. A similar registration system is proposed to be recorded here in Norway in July 2011. That system, however, is limited to electronic services, including communication services. However, the bill is also suggested to those from abroad who have sales to the country of magazines and magazines for subscriptions on paper forms as well as to those from abroad who sell valuable extra taxes for international travel from abroad allow to make use of simplified registrations and provide a valuable supplementary tax from such a national registry. However, the requirements for the simple registration of foreign companies should always be that the sales do not occur in this country. In addition, New Zealand and Australia adopted such systems in 2016 and 2017 due to registration and collection of product and service tax for sale of cross-border services. A respectable president. The rise in the number of tourists in Iceland has seen a marked increase in the number of vehicles brought in for temporary use in this country. Several parts of the vehicles are transferred to job use, including in travel services, especially groups of automobiles, while other vehicles are usually brought in for personal use. The increasing scope is creating a number of acceptable issues involved in transport costs and tax benefits. The scope of monitoring the availability of temporary import has increased considerably with increasing import. Most of the vehicles are exported with a moving ferry in plans, i.e. Norse's ferry, coming to port at Seyver Earth. The situation of the car's customs is that it needs to take place in a short period of time. As a result, toll authorities are limited in certain ways. Inland tourists in travel services have felt that competitors are using vehicles in this country longer than are permitted on the basis of temporary application or even in a circuit under other conditions of such exception. In the event that conditions have been violated, the customs authorities have had to press on to investigate and prepare the decision for the stress of transport costs. It has been said that in spite of the existence of such debts, the collection of such export costs has been limited. This situation violates official interests and opinions on efficient and good collections of export fees and misplaces a competitive position in the national sector. The report of a tax - related tax group from foreign tourism in Iceland from July 2017 onward. proposed a change in the regulations for various tax benefits, that toll managers be given the general authority to remove vehicle registration signals in the land, domestic and foreign populations, has not been given the legal provision of cars in this country. There is also a suggestion that a standard payment fee will be set because of the temporary import of a foreign group of automobiles to the country, or other vehicles to be used for employment, rather than the calculation of the estimated rent as part of the tax price. When the bill is intended to secure the suggestions, we'll be fine. First, a change in the toll free group automobiles for moving to the country is proposed when a car is not moved abroad with the population for import. Rather than allowing transport costs to be paid, certain parts of the estimated rent, which takes into account the public price of a car, the estimated amount of rent taken by an intermediate group of imported vehicles divided into the same toll number over the last three years. Second, the bill suggests that toll authorities will be authorized to remove registration marks of vehicles brought on the basis of a tax-free toll law. These regulations allow temporary delinquency of toll due to vehicles for temporary use here on the country. For the import and manufacture of vehicles in this country it is obliged to pay the cost of transport, including transport. The fee, the cost tax and the extraction fees. Of these, tax prices and credit taxes are always weighted. Whether the import is made for reselling or for its own use, the payment of a new and used vehicle rests on importers. The obligation to pay due tax returns to all backups, new ones, and users, including motor vehicles. In the import of goods, the value tax is collected from tax-related products plus tolls and other tax expenditures to be added to tax-to-dos. On the basis of the rules of toll on the product charge of vehicles, fuels, etc. and song the value tax has been dropped when importing vehicles which should be temporarily used in this country. Thus, those with such privileges are permitted to move in a vehicle to use in this country for a few hours without any obligation to pay. It is not a matter of delinquency of import fees, but it is to be paid by immigrants by rent prices or expected rent prices, which, in principle, reflect the price of commercial products, i.e. the price paid, or the price of a vehicle, to be sold for exporting. The above toll holidays are based on international commitments. On the basis of the EEA Convention, citizens of the Member States are entitled to free transport and employment in the Member States. This includes some. that they are guaranteed the right to engage in activities in all EU countries. The terms of the contract have been considered as a guarantee of temporary use of vehicles in non-EU countries. Then the Icelandic government has participated in the development of declarations in the area of OECD that guarantee tourists the right to travel on vehicles between Member States' members of the Agency without having the obligation to pay the move fees. The bill suggests that changes to all vehicles having to-dos for import on the basis of the above recommendation for temporary use of vehicles in this country are provided. If violations of the terms are violated, unambiguous demands are made to pay the transfer fees. In order to trust their effective collections, it is suggested that the registration marks of the vehicle be removed if used in this country are longer than allowed. It is assumed that the registration mark will not be returned until the toll is paid. However, rather than taking the expected rent price of the vehicle into account by the tax price of the vehicle, it is based on the pre-important profile of intermediate groups of automobiles that have been classified into the same toll number in the past three years. If the bill is approved, the customs authorities will be more able to manage monitoring that vehicles for temporary use in this country meet the conditions set before them. In this case, export costs will be collected simpler and more efficient. A respectable president. The Article of the bill that a partner's workforce also includes fixed European economic work centres may have some impact on the State Fund, whether there is an increase or a decrease in income. In view of the fact that up to now such taxation has not been tested in this country, there is no way to predict the net effect of the proposal on the income side of a government fund for the future. The proposals of the bill that turn the paypayer's pay on the market of pay on the basis of the workforce make the law clearer, and it is intended to reduce tax collections and tax evasion, thus increasing the taxpaying of the state and rural society to some extent. It is expected that the single-change cost will fall due to the development of a special registration system for a simple registration that will be authorised to foreign sources selling electronic services, etc. Up to the country. The cost of a student may be estimated to be about 50 to 170 billion. K. At the same time, improved and more efficient tax divorce rates can be expected following the uptake of such a system that will offset this target cost. In particular, legislation proposals for motor vehicles to be used temporarily in this country will require changes in customs. The proposals will, on the other hand, lead to increased efficiency of customs monitoring and, on the other hand, to work on removing driver's registration marks. Overall, the impact of these changes can be expected to be negligible. A respectable president. According to this, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u163	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize the policy of terms of merit taxation, case No. 562 p.m. 885. The bill suggests that there is a change in credit laws. First of all, adjustments are proposed to the laws on buying and selling services between countries. Following the global development of worth-employment tax, including because of the big business on the Internet, changes are now proposed to the terms of the purchase and sale of international services. The changes are largely based on a report by a group of trades and trades between countries, but this report was submitted to the highest level. Financial and economic ministers in October 2016. The change is that a principle will be introduced that the taxation site of a foreign exchange service will be the site where the use of the service takes place, based on the location of the buyer for the ministry. Today, the taxation site is based solely on its use, but it can be difficult to assess in all cases. The change thus leads to the simplicity of tax management, but with it there will no longer be the same need to analyze and evaluate business agreements to reveal where the service is considered to be new. The changes take into account the international OECD guidelines in these topics and the Agency's report on successful collections of valuable tax in international trade. Along with the proposed changes to purchase and sell from countries, it is suggested that foreign employment companies selling national magazines and magazine subscriptions of paper forms be made necessary to collect and return a valuable tax from this land. Second, changes in the rules of electronic sales and subscriptions of magazines and newsletters are presented. These are changes based on proposals to improve the management environment of the EU media, a report made by the Commission to the highest level. Minister of Education and Culture, January 25th. The Treaty of the Government proposed a review of the taxable environment of music, Icelandic written language, and the media. In the government's terms, there's a difference. Until the government wants to improve the media work environment, e.g. with a review of their taxable environment. On January 25, 2018, the Commission gave a report on the improved business environment to the highest level of the media. Education and cultural Ministers on proposals to change the law and other measures to improve and strengthen the environment of the National media here. One of the proposals made by the Committee members showed that whether such magazines were printed or in electronic form, they are compatible with credit taxes for the sale and subscriptions of newspapers, magazines, and local newspaper and local newscasts. Such agreement would be urgent, especially out of competitiveness, but it would usually be the same or very similar service, whether it was printed or electronic. In view of this, the bill suggests that there will be a step toward improving the environment of the media in this country by syncing the taxation of worth tax on sales and subscriptions of newspapers, magazines and national and national news reports, whether it is printed or electronic. This accordance is in the spirit of the OECD guidelines which emphasizes the neutrality of taxation and fairness, as it is called, between electronic and conventional commerce. The change is to include electronic subscriptions and electronic sales of magazines, newspapers and local and local newsletters, i.e. in 11% steps, but before, there was an electronic sale and subscriptions to a news page in 24%. Third, the legislation on the provision of the transport agency's transfer of tax from its sources due to the amendment and the operation of human vehicles on the land for employment purposes is proposed. These are necessary changes in order to ensure that commercial transport companies of human vehicles will be made possible to transfer tax taxes to tax remuneration tax due to the purchase of resources for the operating of commercial vehicles only and the value of taxation related to the tourism services. The bill thus suggests travel services that meet the requirements of law No. 28/2017, about passenger transport and transport transport, and have received a special travel agency license from the United Nations and otherwise met the legal requirements for the exchange of taxes for the purchase and management of human vehicles, all of which are fully used in the cost-effective management of the tourism providers. I would like to draw attention to the assumed value of the bill on July 1, 2018, in view of the changes in trade and sale of goods and services between countries. I want them finally, a respectable president, to suggest that the bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee, after the end of this discussion and then through 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u164	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 186/2017 of change in XVII. The Annex to the EEA Convention on Ideas and Member States of the European Parliament and Council Directive (EU) 2014/26 of 26 February 2014 for the joint management of authors and related rights and licenses across the border due to the use of Internet music in the internal market. The target of the directive is to conform to the court-orientation procedure by setting in agreement the rules for governance, financial arrangements, transparency and information. The rules are intended to ensure participation in the decision-making process of the Member State and the information flow to the rights, rights organisations, services providers and the public. The court's rights must therefore be specified in the approved organization, as well as in which courts can choose a legal body without regard to citizens' rights or residences. At the same time, the directive's purpose is to establish a consistent protocol on national licenses granted by a legal body on the use of Internet music in order to ensure the increased supply of such services. The directive indicates the requirements for which a legal body that will allow such a license will have to meet. The directive covers all the courts that match its definition, regardless of their size. The order has been discussed in the General and Education Committee, and it established its views on matters. It points to the fact that the directive's requirements are particularly burdensome to the Icelandic rights organization in the light of their small size and that most important things were to look particularly at the impact of the promotion to the Icelandic rights organization. The Commission felt that adjustments would be required to the aspects of the directive that would prove to be burdensome to the Icelandic organisation in this area. The Foreign Affairs Commission agreed with these views of the General and Education Committee. Following the above opinion, representatives of the Ministry of Education and Culture and the Ministry of State met with the European Commission's Directorate-Administrative Office. The meeting investigated the adjustment referred to in the Senate. The Commission's representatives expressed their firm stand that all such adaptation wishes would be rejected. Was referred to in the debate on the proposal that the EU directive had provided comparable requests for the release of a company of authors in small EU countries, e.g. Moth. However, their wishes had been rejected with the argument that such an exception would violate the purpose of the decree. Since the request of Iceland for a physical adjustment did not result in its success, the Icelandic government decided to request temporary adaptation from the directive in a way that would delay the implementation of its burdensome directive on the reporting of the Member States, so that the financial year of 2018 instead of 2018 in the adaptation text of the joint EEA Committee would be postponed. However, in view of the delay in the implementation of this directive, the directive will not be effective among the EFTA countries in the EEA until the next year. Therefore, the requirements for reporting are not valid until the 2019 financial year. That's according to Iceland's position. In view of this, experts in the EFTA Union concluded that a special adaptation text for the delay in taking a burdensome sentence would no longer be necessary. As the directive's implementation calls for a legal adjustment in this country, the decision of the joint EEA committee was taken by administrative notice on the part of Iceland. According to the Council of Parliamentary Congress, such a warning must be removed by a judicial decree. Therefore, it is requested by the General's approval of the change in EEA contracts in the decision-making process so that the government may be removed in advance. I propose, my honored President, after this discussion is followed by this suggestion. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u165	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a change in the law of action against the money fraud and terrorist finance, No. 64/2006, with subsequent changes. The bill is designed to reduce the risk of illegal abuse of virtual funds and to prevent the misuse of technology and initiatives for criminal purposes. The activity that the bill shows is already available in Iceland. The bill suggests that the services employers who offer a trade between virtual funds, electrics and currency, and the services of digital wallets, will be reported to members. At the same time, these parties are suggested to be registered by the UNECE and to submit to their surveillance of the legislation on the control of money thefts and other activities. By passing these services under the law-to-be conditions of the law, they are obliged to conduct a reliable survey of their customers, inform the police of all suspicious business practices, and submit to the responsibilities of action against money laundering. The registration and follow-up of these parties ensures that there is a visual view of the number of these servers and that they are being monitored in accordance with the legal requirements for action against money theft. Three new words are in the bill. The concept of virtual money is defined as any type of digital money that is not electric in the sense of a law on electricity version and treatment or currency. Then the term currency is defined, that I think for the first time in Icelandic legislation. It is defined as money, coins, and other currency provided by bank accounts or by public authorities and is a recognized legitimate currency. Finally, the service provider is a further term for the digital wallet. It is defined as an individual or legislator who has a trust service to identify virtual treasures, whether with software, systems or other media to hold, store and transport virtual funds. If the bill of the law is assumed to have one month from their receipt to request registration at the SEC, which should take a position on the application within 30 days. The bill also suggests changes in the pay laws on financial management, No. 99/1999, with subsequent changes. It is suggested that the service employers as a bill involved in paying annual follow-up fees to the FEC that the amount should be 700,000. But it's the same price as the currency exchange centres and money and valuable delivery services pay for the check-up. A respectable president. I've already explained the main points of this bill. The work being done in the bill is already available in Iceland and, in my opinion, it is important to act quickly to reduce the risk of nonstatutory use of virtual funds and to prevent technological advancements and pioneers from being used in a penalistic purpose. Otherwise, I refer to a piece of paper, comment on the bill, but suggest that the case be referred to why. The Economic and Business Committee and the Correspondence 2. Here at the Senate Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u166	A respectable president. I recommend here for bill on deck. 936, case No. 581. It is a bill to correct customs law, No. 88/2005, which is about originated cheeses and milk. The bill is written at the Department of Professional Road and Development. On the one hand, the bill includes the addition of a new toll number to the mother's milk for the mother's milk for the infant's ovum in order to make a switch to the Annex I with toll code. The reason for this change is from the Land Hospital to the Work and Development Ministry for the import of the hospital from Denmark to the milk of preterm infants. The land hospital has brought in such milk frozen by instant mail, an average of 37 gallons [37 L] a year. The search was to eliminate tolls due to the import. However, the bill suggests that an overall increase in customs due to the origin-related cheeses will be immediately allowed in Iceland and the European Union on agricultural trades, i.e. in 2018, instead of a four - year total increase. According to the above agreement, which went into effect on May 1 of the past, some 210 tons of additional olecvota were produced for the source-related cheese that was due to be implemented over the next four years. Before the contract was instituted, tollovati was a source-related cheese of 20 tons. According to the contract, 55 tons were to be added each year for the first three years and 45 tons in 2021. In the past four years, total gravity would reach 230 tons from the time of validation. According to the bill, the introduction of tollots will be accelerated in accordance with the desire for a greater part of the workaholics to change supplies in 2016. Enrolled cheese falls under the product company of 0406 according to the tax in Annex I of Custom Codes and enjoy special protection from the EU and others. For example, there is Parmesan and Gruyère, a French cheese - I doubt that my testimony is perfect on this word, but I explain this here that it is French cheese that is meant to be perfect. The import requirements within tollvota are that the cheeses have a special origin. The source cheese is not produced in Iceland, but the production of these cheeses is based on long tradition and has a particular reference to the origin or country. This is, therefore, a product that is not in direct competition with Icelandic agricultural products but is increasing the quality of goods for consumers. No information is available on the size of the market here on source-related cheese, but at the end of May 1, total applications were 136 tons, and there were 36.7 tons available. On the basis of current regulations, this dinner was distributed by lots, although each subject achieved a maximum of 15% of total capacity. In the above - mentioned European Commission, a greater part of the employment board on the bill to correct the change in agricultural products, equipment laws and customs (published contracts, farm contracts), in 2016, it was found that a greater proportion of the Committee had agreed to a minister to speed up the production of increased food supplies due to the import of specialised, source-based cheeses, so that it would occur in the first year of the stated contract. However, the committee did not suggest a legal adjustment to speed up the induction. At the same time, it was directed to the secretary of the access rights of the EU's internal market for dairy products to be accelerated as if such provisions could be based on mutual access. In this regard, the question has been asked whether the Icelandic government has sought a change in the agreement with the EU to speed it up on that side. It is to say that the Department of Employment has not taken up these discussions with the European Union, as it will not be admissible by Iceland's contracts in such contracts, but I will use myself to investigate it. It should be noted, however, that the agreement involved took a long time to work. Work on it began in 2012. Had it been possible to change the agreement after his signature, conducted in September 2015, it would no doubt have delayed the acceptance of the contract at least two to four years if it had been possible. In order to be allowed to disappear from the terms of the contract in the context of this agreement and to allow for the overall increase in tollovate due to source related cheese immediately, instead of being done step by step over four years, the adjustment proposed in the source-related cheese bill is required. The consequences of the approved bill must be considered in the general interest of the public as an overall increase of tollovate due to source related cheese is assured to be implemented immediately, rather than in step over four years. There is no economic impact due to faster induction of tollovates, where the food has no toll and is distributed by lot, as 1 mgr. 65. g. Rearing, No. 99/1993. It must also be considered as a benefit to the general population if the milk of the mother delivered due to infant infant infant is free of toll. During the past few years, the average import may have been 37 litres per year. Not much. The study of toll income from the milk of 2017 was 37,000 dollars. A respectable president. I've traced the main points of this bill, and I'd like to refer to the series of articles that follow, which contains a detailed discussion on its contents. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to a 2nd. ... andwhat. Promissary committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u167	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the history of this case. Its progress now shows that the management board can function quickly when we leave. It's just a little sad to see them down. Congress officials who have spoken for this bill and its contribution are not here in the audience. This is especially true of what happened. Senators of the Cradle. But I was confident that the discussion and work would work hard. The job board on these matters will be so much better if people are saving themselves for them. All I want to do is sin on my knees and discuss customs and agricultural products in general and hope that a respectable president will show me a little mercy on it and not knock me out of a pin with a bell sound. It's like the highest. A minister entered this issue is not necessarily referring to products that compete with domestic production. This is a natural part of larger contracts and much jungle contracts. It all has to do with everything. Throughout this discussion, people have often thrown up the experience we already have on reduced vegetables. That was, if I recall correctly, in 2002, and in 2002 many of the people have referred to the experience of detriment or reduction in the strength of domestic production. We've heard word here in this hall and in the general discussion. That's why I'd like to recall here that when it was done at the time, i.e. When vegetables were reduced, structural development followed, which can be said to be especially responsible for the counterweight action taken by the government. In particular, it was thought that if nothing was done, this part of the agricultural sector could be reduced and a agreement was made with gardeners, which included direct payment and support for new investors, fueling older management units, as well as electrical subsidies. This year's budget accounts for the 550 million gardening agreement. K. This is the basis where horticultural development has been enabled to cope with changes in the work environment due to increased import of gardening products. I wanted to draw it up here so we can remember that it's not all that simple, as some people would like to be left behind when we talk about the demolition of agricultural products. The domestic product needs to be carefully considered if it is at any other level our will that it thrives, so I'll allow me to use that illustration in which I am discussing a considerable amount of gardening. Therefore, it is important to follow the implementation of the customs contract, which, for example, took place in the last month's match, provides a full analysis of how this contract could affect the competitive status of domestic production. I'm especially happy to be the highest. A minister who discussed the matter during the days agreed to see how this would have affected him. I especially welcome it, which is the highest. A minister said earlier, that he would take the initiative to investigate how to initiate this discussion at the end, to discuss customs when it comes to exporting agricultural equipment. I just wanted to draw this out, because the discussion in these issues is often made a little black and white. We risk some of us in here to simplify things. This is good and that's bad. There's nothing in the middle of it. But reality is often a little more complicated than that. Let us bear in mind, for example, when we looked for the garden of Eden, that it was a successful operation because tolls carried counters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u168	Madam President. I hereby recommend a judicial hearing on the lack of tax pay less than 300,000 dollars. Transporters, as well as those below, are why. Councilmen Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Sæland Göndand and Karl Gauti Hjaltason. The contents of the Parliamentary decree are as follows: The General concluded to hide a financial and economic minister from giving a bill by the end of 2018 that a monthly income of individuals will be under 300,000 dollars. will be free of income tax, with the goal of righting the lowest earners and allowing them to make better ends meet. The Conspiracy proposal means that financial and economic ministers will set up a timed schedule to make individual income below 300,000 dollars. Residents of income taxation and the fact that its bill will be submitted no later than before the end of 2018. It is normal that the first step towards this goal lies in making money within the income tax system with a decline in personal discount as income increases and falls at a level of no more than 1,500. each month, as one report puts it, you might think of a lower income limit in this relationship. The savings resulting from this will be used within the income tax system to increase the characterization of the lowest income groups. On the basis of current tax laws, a personal discount is 53,895 k. in a month in 2018. This means that the taxation limit per month is 151,978 k. Relative to wage transplant recipients with 4% pension time. The ASI report, the tax burden of wage workers 1998-03/2016, published in August 2017, shows that although personal discounts have increased continuously since the turn of the century and more than doubled, there has been an all - out trend. The real value of a person's discount was summed up in 1998◯2016. Thus, in the years compared to prices, tax shortages have fallen to an absolute value and would be much higher if a person's discount had been paid. It is noted in the report of ASI that the tax burden has increased in all income groups over the period of 1998◯2016, but much more on less income than on the higher income. The tax rate of minimum wage has increased from 4% in 1998 to 16% in 2016 or by 14 percentage points, as some statements are made. The pay rate of taxation at the lower quarter limit has increased by 6 percent, with the least increase at the upper quarter limit of pay or by 3 percent. The results of ASI are similar, i.e. that the total tax burden of remuneration, when taken into account in terms of income taxation, response and personal discounts, as well as in child- and growth reform in all income groups over the period, and the largest increase in income-free amounts. This place certainly does blow. Aspiration of ASI is that the difference between the tax burden of the highest income groups and the increase in income has therefore been reduced and the tax recovery factor was reduced. Thus, during the past few years, growth in financial gains have been less rewarding than earners because of increase in tax rates. ASI expresses the opinion in her report that this trend is mainly due to a number of factors, including that personality discount has not been followed by labour development, which has increased the rate of paying less taxes. According to the law, tax ladders are to be followed by remuneration, while tax outlets determined by the figure of a person's discount are to follow prices. In time, this discrepancy results in an increasing inequities in the provisional element. ASI has concluded that there has been a significant decrease in support of the growth reform system and that there has been a reduction in the number paid for growth improvements. The Icelandic child - welfare system is weakened and only reduces the tax burden of single parents and of all the most lucrative couples. The house credit system has developed in the same way as a second transfer system, thus reducing rent - rent support. The Ministry's website shows that an individual's staging target per month is 222,764 k. and if not taken into account housing costs. I'm highlighting it. The Ministry's Web notes that typical criteria should reflect and provide as a complete picture of domestic expenses. For most expenditures, the typical criteria are calculated with the lowest and highest terms in terms of total expenditure, replaced, and then calculated by the median according to each budget category. In addition, the cost of operating cars and school - related expenses by children is directly calculated. According to the Ministry's website, then, there is no minimum or luxury limit. The Ministry Department's spending criteria are set up on a 2011 expert team report on consumption criteria for homes in Iceland. An up-to-date study of Iceland's Habitat has been updated on the domestic expenses. I note that the joints build up or calculate housing, maintenance costs for housing, electricity, and fever are not part of an Icelandic consumer policy. Since the consumption target is based on guidelines, direct taxes and the public do not pay for consumption criteria. The typical standard used here is to reflect and give as a complete picture of Icelandic household expenses, as stated earlier. The typical spending criteria for an individual with no children living in the capital area are less than 223,000 k. A typical standard for the expenses of a couple with two children living in the capital area with one child in high school, while the other in high school who buys school meals and vacation care is just over 495,000. 494,821 k. The minimum individual improvement will be estimated at 300,000 k. and can be counted as the least of the sums of the budget per year and by the development of housing costs, as it can be seen from everyone. Rather, the amount of money mentioned here could be counted too low. This means that in accordance with the current legal requirements on income taxes, tax collections are made that are not due to minimal progress. It's as simple as that. No government that wants to teach themselves well can be known for such taxation. I must note, Madam President, that the government believes it is safe to lower the lower limit of income tax by 1% which is generally estimated to cost 14 billion and to yield more than 60% of the bank tax that costs no less than 7 billion. Thus, it cannot be said that there is no money to take any significant step in these matters. This interpretation proposal is made with the aim that people in the lowest income will be made to survive and that no one will have to see a tax drawn from income that is not enough for necessities. I allow myself to suggest that the case be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u169	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct the changing of the alien law and the Schengen information system in Iceland. No. No. No. No. 80/2016, of January 1, 2017, has been identified as a reimbursement, and a reexamination of several of the laws so that their actions and treatments of the cases that fall below are clear and transparent. In fact, the bill mentioned above does not involve important material changes in the Law. Rather, it is designed primarily to adjust expressions and references to law regulations, clear individual laws that have been vague or incomplete. The bill suggests, among other things, that the authority on the source of the Chairman and the vice president of the Commission of Foreign Foreign Affairs, alone ruling, be confined, and only when there is a doubt about the material outcome of an application for international protection or whether the material treatment should be handled. The change is aimed at improving the effectiveness and efficiency of the Committee. With the child - care interest of children, the CDC is added to institutions that already have the authority to communicate sensitive personal information, but it is important that concerned governments be aware of the interests of a child who has requested a land permit or international protection. Child welfare authorities can have knowledge of the child's successes, which can make a difference in decision made by the National Institute for Reservation, international protection, or the implementation of transport from abroad. On the basis of humanitarian principles, all unambiguous permission for the release of a reimbursement is taken, but the current provision does not require clear clearance for the release of a temporary authorisation on that basis, but is only allowed to look to these opinions. The applicant's presentation of protection for an interview at the National Institute of Iceland is made more efficient than it is suggested at the beginning to prove that the Agency can make a decision in the candidate's case without any further action. The current directive allows for a twofold distribution. The applicant's need for adequate recognition of the consequences of her absence is continued and is investigated as to whether there may be legitimate reasons for the applicant's absence. Timelines for the applicant's authorization to stay in the country while the applicant's application is being explained in addition to the provision of post-requisitional applications in the Foreign Institute at the time the applicant has been dismissed, or has reported a possible deportation, falling into force. The change is made in accordance with the loss of the given visas under current alien law. Then it adds a lawsuit to the National Court on the decision of the district and unquestioning the government and the preparation of a case in terms of withdrawal to come to the country. Finally, directed references in the law on foreigners in the Schengen Information System and the customs security authorities are given permission to have direct contact with the system. A respectable president. In other respects, I refer to the comments and articles with this bill and suggest that the bill be followed by this discussion referred to why. General and Education Committee and 2nd over.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u170	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The minister of this review of the matter discussed here, the bill to correct a change in the law of foreigners; perhaps the factor that focuses on my interest. I run my eyes on a few things, when it comes to this bill, and I would like to start by asking a minister only in consultations and consultations, and in the evaluation process that was carried out before the bill was submitted. My questions are merely designed to turn to 1,◯3. par. The bill, but it all seems to me that there are certain changes in the language of this group. This is a series of two opportunities for foreigners to appear in the Foreign Institute, allowing sharing in very personal information in Article 2 of this magazine. And in the first century C.E. g., which I should have mentioned at first, is spoken of by the changing lawsuits of the Exhibit Committee of Foreign Affairs. It's the 3rd fart. which have the treatment for the case, in order to arrive before the Foreign Institute in two places, before making a financial decision without the option of the individual. As a result, in Article 3 and 4, I see in line with the constitution and international commitments. Team 4 reports that the only conversation that was actually involved in this bill was with the police chief, the police in the capital area, and the Southnes, the NGOs and Foreign Institutes, but that no further consultation was required. I ask myself, " Would it not have been reasonable to consult Persian protection as well as the Red Cross of Iceland, where there is a change in procedure? ' Similarly, I would have found it normal, perhaps hearing thoughts of the highest degree. A minister on the matter, to consider, or to examine at least, whether this change in the terms of the procedure will definitely last for our international commitment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u171	A respectable president. Commenting on the bill, the bill identifies itself primarily to governments, a number of steps in these topics. The governor, the police in the capital area, and the Southnes police, the NTSB, and the Foreign Institute, were contacted. On the other hand, initiatives in part have been made by the Commission of Foreign Affairs and the Foreign Institute itself. Thus, in view of the nature of this bill, there has been no further reason for consultation. Hv. A senator said that two invitations were being canceled for an interview at the Foreign Institute. I'd like to point out that it's not being done yet. However, it is explaining that the first preaching work needs to be done in a genuine way so that the applicant does not return to the second service if he has been clearly informed of the consequences. But I got it. The General and Education Committee to examine all these factors further, and of course expect the bill to be sent to a review to all persons who may be interested in the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u172	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. It may be difficult to find out from such alliances when it comes to comparing regulations and imagining what they will look like. Normally, it works well. If you're right, the highest. A minister says that the subject will still have two more opportunities to appear before the committee, even though the previous inexplicably before, without the result, I would ask for respect for the misunderstanding. But that's what worries me, this point, about this unique law. I would have just wanted to see that the stakeholders of this system also had a consultation with this bill. Although this may seem to be low in appearance, it is important for me that when laws are being changed, which have as much impact on people's lives as laws on foreigners have often been called upon to consult those speaking on behalf of that group. So I guess I just owed it to you if I thought it was normal. Also, I contend that it was normal for the Ministry to have examined specifically whether this was in the source we have according to our international commitments. But in other terms, in terms of consultation, I have taken up a tripolitic committee on foreign matter. I did not actually attend the first meeting of that committee, but I understand that this case was not discussed there. I wondered if it wasn't natural to mention it there and possibly carry it on this committee. Frankly, I do not fully understand the purpose of that committee if these matters are not even under it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u173	A respectable president. I'd like to mention these messages and the adjustment suggested by 3. saying, that it may be tried and done justly, that the law of the law is here being changed in the twenty-eightth. a valid law which requires a candidate who has not responded to the invitation of the Foreign Institute twice. It is this way today that the applicant has been able to deny attendance at the Foreign Institute twice, and sometimes it has been very difficult to get applicants who have requested to stay here for humanitarian reasons to interview the Foreign Office. In many cases, you will not have to ask for an interview again. Of course, one interview should be sufficient. But it's bad if you have to preach twice. This will emphasize the genuineness of a person's preaching right away so that a decision can be made after one interview. So, you may have legitimate problems, but legitimate previous effects are not the fact that you can't get away from work, you have to ask for asylum here. This has been a ongoing problem in the removal of shelters. In general, the discussion is correct, as it were. A member of the council notes that a body of consultations has been instituted here at the council and the minister of the council. I expect a lot of that job. There was a meeting not so long ago. I don't intend to claim that the committees knew this bill or knew it was coming. But there was no time, nor was there an opportunity, to provide this for the first meeting of the committee, since the bill was almost already on. [[The president calls.]] But I have declared it, and discussed it at the meeting, that in the future it will be a pleasure to have the opportunity to introduce the proposed legal procedure to members of the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u174	Mr. President. We're here to discuss a change in the law on foreigners and the Schengen information system in Iceland. I'd like to say at the outset that this bill has been taken from the council of the left movement at a moment's notice. That is especially the case with 3rd pars. The bill on the preaching of foreigners for interview in the Foreign Institute. I think it's an article like that. A top-of-the-art Board of Education needs to work out real well. It must be clear that the message is in such a way that the person or person invited for an interview understand the importance of what is about to happen during the interview and that there is no question about the fact that there are legitimate reasons for not getting an interview. This is a point I think we need to do very well. There's something else I think the committee has to look at very carefully. As the chapter on consultations puts it, the governor, the police in the capital area, the Southnes police, the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Foreign Institute for this bill. So there are people who come very close to these matters that were not addressed but who are advocates, so to speak, the people under which these laws apply and if the bill is approved. I'd especially like to mention the Red Cross of Iceland. They have, of course, been advocates of trustrs in various matters. Two. is about having the ability to collect personal information, that I think for a good purpose, to ensure child interest, and therefore it is very important to discuss this, how this case is done, with Peritoneal Protection. Most important, the members we have assigned to be special spokesmen and guardians of children's rights, such as the Children's and Children's Health Organization, will be called to discuss in particular the issues facing children on the bill. If the trustees are a sensitive group, I think that it must be said that children among the trustees are just a very sensitive group that we have a responsibility to think specifically of in a very careful manner. Of course, there may be other details on the bill that will reveal the need to dive. But how exciting it will be to deal with it! I think a top-of-the-art Board of Education can do a very good job on this case. If there's something further to be adapted to, then the Council Committee will file into that case. Well, hopefully we'll be able to accept it sometime later on on on this springmisser.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-09-61.u175	Well, that's it, then. Generals, that we interrupt the council meetings for the treatment of an up-to-date platoon election. It is a good and consistent practice for the General to abandon the stage and leave it to local and rural governments to the important democracies that now take place. The president would like to make it clear that while meetings fail at the General Assembly, members of the Parliament can still meet and, of course, do their duties anywhere, or show themselves, and see others in connection with local elections and enjoy life any way they choose this time until we may meet again all of us in full and cheerfulness at the end of the district election.
