ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-15.u1	I hereby recommend the employment board's committee's committee's Committee on bill to legalize the changing of fish farms, No. 71/2008 (necessary permission). The Committee has discussed the matter and has received its meeting with the Baldur of P. and Resources, Erlingsson and Jóhann Guðmundsson, Viktor S. Pálsson of Food Institute, Guðmundur Sigríður Auður, Environment and Resource Minister, and his assistant Orri Jóhannsson, Arnardóttir Arnótir of Environment and Resource, also Jóhannes Karl Sveinsson, Kristín Haraldsdóttir and Trausti Fannar Valsson. The bill adds a change to the 21st paragraph. c Law on fish farms and is the bill intended to restore the problem to the current law that if a fish farm is decommissioned, the only food company's resources are to stop the operation. The prohibition is unconcerned that if a management permit is not valid, the operation should be stopped, even by the police. The bill allows a minister to issue a temporary leave to up to ten months if an application arrives within the specified period and should be allowed materially within the requirements of the previous permit. In handling the case of the Committee, the Applaus Convention was referred to and asked whether there is a possibility that such legislation would violate or reduce the public's potential to address environmental decisions. The committee points out that in the new provision, only temporary measures are included, as well as that the license should be made materially within the limits of the former license. The Committee also points out that a minister may post temporary permission of the conditions needed as detailed in Article 8 of Article 1. The bill. The committee adds up the 1st matter to Article 1. The bill in order to expand its range of values, adding the words ◯ because of the lack of permission. The committee also suggests slight changes in wording. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the above adjustments made in a special Senate document. The Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir was found as an audition officer and is acceptable to this opinion. However, she, along with Smári Mccarthyr, warns that this change will not prevent the introduction of resource costs in fish farming, although they may be temporary. Under this committee, the one listed here, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Inga Sæland, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristoffdótttir, Elíasdóttir Friedbjörg Elisdótir, Friðriksson Friðmundsson, Trausti Guðmundsson Friðbertsson, Sigurður Páll Jónsson, and Smári Mccarthy, in advance. Then I'd like to present the changing proposal for your bill. 1st In paragraph 1 paragraph. a. Following the word "Service " to 1st. Come on, it's due to the dissociation of the permit. b. Instead of the word "stempered license" to be taken away from the 1st case. come: the release which was canceled. c. Instead of the words, "sound down. " falling: canceled. 2. Instead of the words ◯ that fell to 2kg. disproportionately. This is the case, and much and good material discussions have been made with a professional health committee. As I repeated in a talk here today, this is a very important way to finish the matter. I believe this case will all hold, and it is urgent that a minister has a means of managing it and can grant this provision if necessary. It is very good that this is done in a general law, and it would have been allowed to take place earlier in order to prevent such an incident.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-15.u2	Mr. President. I agree with what happened next. paritaprevir The Lilja Electrical Rafney of Magnúsdóttir on the importance of failure is rapid and firm in the condition of the Western West when it comes to fish farming. But I can't sit by looking at the kind of work we're doing here today. I come up here to inquire a little bit about 2 st. The bill that reads like this: ▪ This law already comes into effect, as well as to address ransacks, which were canceled for the law's taking of force. Now I heard a case. A senator said that the matter had been very well treated by a professional health committee. So I ask: Can she inform the council on how many privileges other than the ones involved in this matter, i.e. the licences which were canceled on the Westfjords have been canceled over the years before the law's execution?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-15.u3	Mr. President. No, I can't answer that. It would have taken some warning to look for information on this subject. But as normal, we all know that certain events are being addressed regarding the permission of certain companies. Their run is very upset, their habitat is very upset, financial interests are great. But after much examination in the Ministry and among experts, it was considered normal at the highest level. A minister could deal with this in a general law by having a minister such as this authority, that if there were compelling reasons, there could be a temporary discharge. Like what? A senator, who was very well instructed in the committee, considered jurists who came before the committee that the most natural way was by this bill on general legislation. When it is noted that the licenses that have fallen out of force before the execution of the law are dismissed, everyone knows why. Senators here who will be there to consider asking for temporary permission to meet the unprecedented situation of the companies and the western settlements.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-15.u4	Mr. President. I'm a little shocked to hear the answer. Senator. I am fully aware of the seriousness of the situation and have proposed two recommendations here at the council today, that, on the one hand, a course proposed by the Commission's Committee of Environment and Resources, will be in charge of activities and Ministers to ensure that these companies can continue working as long as there are no restrictions on the permit. On the other hand, we accept a certain provisional principle but do not enter the general legal structure that has to do with these limitations. Now I saw this just before, that this law is being spoken of as taking effect, as well as being taken over by a operator who fell from the law's taking effect. Then you say to the director? In an explanation of the provision, it is simply stated that it specifically states that the law includes management - in the plural - which fell from the values of the law. That's why I normally ask: Is there any authority other than the one that is being dealt with in the West? We don't know. Hv. A senator and director of a professional professional committee does not know that. I don't think that's entirely impossible, except that we're getting some information on it. Does this apply to others? Could anyone who has lost his license outside the legal limit? We need to find the answer here at the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-15.u5	Mr. President. As indicated by the lyrics, and the gills. A candidate should have already studied, it is said that there can be a temporary leave to up to ten months' exposure to its application by the owner of the cut-off permit within three weeks. These three weeks mark the period of time. There are not many who fall within the three weeks other than the state-of-the-art fish farming firms in the south of the West that we know we've lost their work permit and work permit. So I think I can totally stand here and say there are these two companies that fall within these boundaries as the law on the bill specified, i.e. that the license must have fallen within the last three weeks before the law is valid.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-15.u6	Mr. President. Now we have today, and just today, been discussing this matter. It's a big deal. It's important. How important it is that we save the valuables that will be saved and do what is natural to do in order to protect social catastrophe! However, there is always a question about how you do it. I have to say, the treatment here has been unacceptable, one more time because priorities are being made for one day beyond all other interests. It's led to even the death of the family. that a few minutes ago, a potential defect was discovered. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir pointed out. Fortunately, I hope we get some good answers from the Ministry as soon as possible. [[Up front.]] Have you...? [[Up front.]] I'd like to be received from the Ministry, that the change is only valid for these two licences. All right. This is one of the things that should have been discovered if the matter was in a normal political process, not this speed process now. The fact that we are in a hurry to run a case at this high speed leads to poor legislation. Mistakes are to be made. That people are surprised when things are broken. It is absolutely clear that such redinging, and this is reding, must be temporary. It is because of the reason that Porta's council presents a new arrangement that has been distributed, which is about making the sunset rules for this change. It's an amazing simple thing to make sure that when this is recorded, it's coming from the highest level. In November, if this point is discussed, there will not be any extra issue left on the grounds that there is not directly stated in the bill that comes from a minister then. This is essential because, of course, this matter did not come into the process of reporting, of course, did not receive reviews from all the stakeholders who might come to a different conclusion and have a different opinion than the experts who were called before the professional management committee. Most experts were part of either the Ministry or the Ministry experts who had worked with the Ministry to figure this out. The committee was not the only neutral expert. I do not question the qualifications and understanding of the fine individuals, lawyers, and other experts who came before the committee. They know exactly what they're doing. But this does not change that, according to usual, well-controlled procedures, people who work to avoid being able to judge the qualifications of that project are neutral. This is how it's supposed to work. It must be clear that this is temporary. We are going one way or another to discuss this now in November when the minister of the bill comes in. Still, it is still necessary that these things be adjusted in some way today. I'm all for making this right. Of course, I'm not in favor because we're working so bad, but fine, we're still here once more, and that's our shame. We have to start getting involved and make fewer mistakes like this. I say, I'll be in favor of this case if I get confirmation from the Ministry right now in the next few minutes that this is only the two licenses involved. Otherwise, there's no way to know what I'm gonna do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-15.u7	Mr. President. We will continue with a discussion on the proposal from a fishing minister on temporary fishing practices. So that's to be clear, everyone has a very good connotation to eliminate uncertainty. Everyone is very well aware of that. That alone does not justify the lack of careful work habits and the lack of pride in our work. It has to be just as it is in the case of the committee that, as notes, when we're going to enforce a law from the Council, a general law from the Council, because it has been declared to be a general law, it's to be justified. Why do I say that? Yeah, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well. Because the refusal was our desire to have more guests go over the matter than those who had discussed the case before, and the Ministry pointed out, the fine experts to appear before the committee. These were very powerful experts, of course, whom we have confidence, but it would have been an improvement to get more who had not previously been involved and who would not have the same views that had been laid down in the past, just to mention that. We didn't get the fish farms, we didn't get the right to ask for salmon fish and fish. To attend to the meeting, or to the community in the West. The members were not allowed to attend the Committee. I said, "Why couldn't a council be convened yesterday?" We knew this had to be discussed. Why couldn't a council be convened yesterday so that at least we would have had the day to review the matter better than we really do? Then, blacks, whether president of the trade committee, president of a council, or prime minister, speak of better and improved practices. The first test is always missed when it's tested. Let us keep that in order. That's even. That's why I'm on the committee's front line, because the process is not such that it supports both the sector and the sector, in the treatment of all members of the council and other factors. To that end, I have a double priority. I'd like to draw out what really matters, and I came to form in the opinion of the experts who had previously discussed the matter and were asked to do so on the part of the Ministry, we didn't get any other experts. During that brief period, the experts brought specific suggestions that helped the case very quickly. I wonder, " If we had had had a little more time, what else would we have got? ' The experts had not read the latest version of a minister's proposal. Is that an example? No, of course not exemplary. I am convinced that the matter had been even better, and I improved even more than it had if it had been, since it is a great improvement in the development of the case by the Committee. But I am also convinced that if we had received such an allowance, there would have been no warning. The issue is that the Minister's rights are being convened to grant provisional permission. It is being noted that there will be no permit squads if there has been a primary practice of fish farming or running licenses in the past. If, for some reason, fish farms have committed themselves or for some reason not met the requirements of the law... except that there are some merits within the environmental and resource ruling committees that they are looking at... they cannot be granted the permit. So it is vital that we narrow the source down, making it possible for experts to permit us to do so. Although the government groups may not have shown this much interest, the agreement has been discussed. But well. I especially want to rejoice that it is being tried to sharpen it because one of the experts who appeared to the committee, one of our chief experts in that field, Kristín Haraldsdóttir, said it could not be said that the change could not be made conclusively against the Greats Convention. Thus, the committee is trying to address the fact that even if this is a temporary license, it is, in fact, a preliminary arrangement. The whole process reflects that this is a preliminary strategy. Therefore, it is important to remember that a minister, as noted, can provide additional authority. A minister can insert additional permission into the permit, although the permit unit will always be within the frame of the old license, even tighter. It's important that we get the Ásar deal into the context that's all about. As I say, I strongly criticize the trial. If the government had had any good intentions, we could have had more time, settled the matter today, talked about it at the council yesterday and today, but it wasn't. At the end of the case, the government will not take it upon itself to continue to sustain uncertainty. There was a bit of uncertainty in the conference room today, including On behalf of the Environment Minister, as to which routes would be taken, though I also want to make sure that the minister would appear before the committee and answer the questions that were very clear to him and try to explain the matter. Nevertheless, it is clear that the governments and the government groups will face a decision in these matters. The second thing that I will do that I will do, that I may do for myself, and that I may do for my sake. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy looks like that, too, is that we're going to have a bill, and I'm telling you, I'm telling you, we're going to get the bill. A marine minister to bring as soon as possible the overall legislation on fish farms so that we can discuss resource costs. I'd like to emphasize that by agreeing to the route here I'm not trying to prevent resources from being placed on license for fish farming, let alone a temporary license. Interim licences will not be excluded from the use of resource bills within the fish farm. Of course, I want to have a general discussion about fish farming. I want to see the resource expenditures flow into the infrastructure and infrastructure of the areas that most of the cost comes from. The same is true of the seabed. It's just a princely rule. I want the fishing companies to pay expenses like fish farms, to build up mostly in the areas they come from, whether on the West or elsewhere in the country. We know, because of the upcoming fishing costs in the sea, that it is important to us that we are not making money from fish farms, whether they are permanent or temporary. We will support the situation, taking into account the changes made by the committee. I'm supposed to be a lot better won, but this case is being done by the government. As we all know, the presentation is the responsibility of the government and then the operation of the constitutions within the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-15.u8	Mr. President. As we have noted, the employment board has ended its discussion and has been contacted by some of its guests, representatives of the Environment Ministry, the Department of Employment and Development, and the Food Organization, as well as three lawyers each coming from their own direction. As mentioned in the Committee, this is expected to be a response to the violations of the law and there is no invalidation of the decision-making committee of environmental and resource sources. However, there has to be some kind of defense so that entire communities cannot be unremarkable, as I entered the 1st around. The evidence was made at a meeting of the Committee that the more powerful and natural course is to follow rather than delay the right effect, allowing a minister to limit this temporary permission, i.e. set possible additional conditions, bind them in time and request improvements, anything that is not possible if only the right effect is delayed. It was then noted that the wording suggested in the bill was completed and concluded by the Committee, as indicated in the Commission opinion and the changes made by the Commission, to narrowly narrow down the importance that it was evident that this was not being considered as a response to the cases where the operators are losing permission for violations of the work permit, but only where there is a basis for permission. Of course, it would have been desirable to spend more time on the discussion of the committee, but it is clear that circumstances are driving us to respond. Similarly, it is important to keep in mind the need to support more fully the agencies responsible for the legislation and the monitoring of fish fuel, and we need to look to the current budget for support. In addition, we need to consider this with the overall reevaluation of fish farming later in the year to review the matter again and to make sure that everything is as good as possible in that legislation. But I support the findings of the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-15.u9	A respectable president. I want to thank everyone who's been involved in putting this matter through today. It's been a very strict day, but it was very important to finish this case. I am grateful for the Westerners, who can now breathe more easily. The children were in high school tomorrow, worried very much today, as the magazines showed. I think they can look brighter ahead. I will also agree with what was said here by the last speaker. It is important to strengthen these institutions that are working on permit and outside fish farms in Iceland. This morning the committee stated that there is a great human balance and that there is no staff. It came, for example. ... and I find it extremely important to appear here in this hearing, that representatives of the Food Agency, the EEA and the Organization now make sure that, despite this matter, despite the fact that they are not already doing any further application - out of this matter and the problems we have already had, but we are hoping to solve. Similarly, the full - time members of the Committee this morning had all these institutions against the option and advantages established by the Environment and Resource Commission in their sentences. It is also important that the council thinks that there must be some benefits that are really a better way of doing this, not that the committee can ask for it, when building a water supply activation, that the benefits of steam - power activation will be checked at the same site. It's not working. I'd like to thank the Minister, the Ministry and Congress members for passing this case today. That was a nice move.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-15.u10	A respectable president. Today, Congress can work quickly, with variations, and in all kinds in one day. You would appreciate it if the council could work so quickly on other matters, but it's not always celebrating, especially since it is the case as it is, and there are some questions that arise when everything is so rushed through. For example, it is assumed that temporary permission can be issued for ten months and then replaced once or another ten months. Yet it is said in a report, with permission of the president: "Telja must be completed within ten months, the Marketing Authorisation Holder should be able to achieve the objective of provisional access in each and one case... Since it sounds like ten months is enough, it is a little strange that it is granted permission to take extra ten months. The senator's work is an interesting, slightly different job, and it actually defines only one form of constitution, i.e. to live by conviction. This suggests that not everyone, of course, is an expert in all matters, but they cannot be. That's impossible. Therefore, we hold members of Congress to get experts'opinion of each case and, of course, not all of us can be fish breeders experts. We rely on getting reviews from different sources. When the trial is just as it is today, it is filled with reports, that have been shown by members of the Parliament today at 2nd. Thus, at Porta's council, we have proposed a change of motion to make the same provision that is added to the temporary provision that is added here just for years. In the fall of this law, a minister has declared changes to these laws, and it can be handled in a natural session with all the notices and reasonable discussions at the council, whether it is possible to keep it permanent. What we object to is that there should be permanent access to a minister when clearly given to the individual issues discussed here. We must admit that to ourselves. This is a change of law in a day to tackle specific issues. This is not a general warrant for a minister unless, as the bill is currently a general authority, but it should not be because it is intended to solve a particular problem. At the time of the discussion of the bill, the decision to grant a ten - month work permit is likely to be made. If the law expires at the end of the year, it could not be extended again. This is not really important because according to the bill, ten months will be sufficient. Well, then we've been through the discussion with the bill that arrives in the fall on how we should handle this permanently, not in the dog range we're working on today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-09-15.u11	A respectable president. The proposal suggests that this arrangement applies only to the year. However, I would like to make one thing that was shown in earlier conversation, not in a piano, that provided that a ten - month extension of the right effect is granted, another law will be accepted at that point, when the ten - month delay is past, which would make it possible to permanently fix the problem without this particular law. I wanted to know that if the law fell down at the end of the year, it doesn't mean that you can't renew the right effect, the need is that if a new law has been approved within ten months. I vote with the law, but it's predictable, as is always the case when the government says something.
