ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u1	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize the law of housing partnerships. The bill was previously submitted to the 146th legislature of 2016-2017, but it did not become a law. Word-changing changes have been made on the bill since then in an effort to enhance their clarity. The bill was made up at the Ministry of Health, having agreed with the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, as well as with representatives of the Borstials, Busts, and Buryers. With law No. 29/2016, on the change in housing law, many changes were made to housing partners. The aim of these changes was to promote sustainable housing partnerships and to make it easier for the Buddies to work here. This bill is intended to further contribute to the sustainable construction of housing partners by ensuring that the budget is able to select the financing that they consider to be the most favorable and best at any given time. Such choices, on the other hand, are guided by social interests and the risks involved in financing. The above changes included changes in the terms d-d-lines of 1.mg. Section 5. The law that measures how housing partners should make money. In earlier laws, the wording of the law was in a way that allowed the funds to be borrowed from an apartment loan fund, under the laws on housing and other loans on the public market. By the adjustment of the proposals, the budget was changed on the way that the funds were authorized for financing through loans borrowed from financial companies and other loan institutions, sponsors, and contributions from colleagues. The latter provision is widely attached to housing partners when it comes to borrowing. Because the law is binding to loans and loans, it prevents other means of finance that may be more suitable and more beneficial for the budget. A respectable president. The bill suggests the wording of d-joins 1.mg. Section 5. the law on housing partnerships will be changed so that the funds will be allowed to borrow public markets, including for financial companies, as well as the apartment loan fund, as well as the support and donations provided by partners. It is also suggested that they be allowed to fund themselves with the version of bonds, but it is proper to agree that the bill of bonds needs to be prepared in accordance with the rules of stock exchange at any given time. In addition to taking into account the risks involved in financing, the funds that are most favourable and ideal for each member's best interests. This contributes further to the sustainable operation of such partners. As mentioned earlier, the bill was consulted by representatives of the Buzts, Busts, and Bumblems. In addition, the bill was employed in consultation with the Ministry of Economics and Economics. Among these individuals was the drive taken from the bill to the level of funding for the members. If the bill is legal, housing partners will have more room to select the funding that will be most favorable to them and will be most suitable for each event. In addition, there is an increased likelihood that housing partnerships will become sustainable, increasing housing security. Legalisation of the bill is not expected to affect government administration nor is it expected to result in financial spending. A respectable president. As noted earlier, this matter was removed from a health committee at the 146th legislature, but it was not completed before the end of the council. As far as I know, all members of the Committee were at the time. Maybe there's nothing more to say about it. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u2	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a synopsis of environmental assessment for the production of lowland roads in the Myrdal. With me, the carriers are cool. Councilmen Trausti Sigri Guðmundsson, Birgir Þórarinsson, Karl Gauti Einar Hjaltason, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Páll Magnússon, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Smári Mccarthy, and Vilhjálmur Árnason, i.e. All the senators of the district, but the minister is obviously not on that list. The General concluded to hide transport and local government minister to direct recommendations to the road model to assess environmental impacts on the treatment of lowland roads through the Mord valley at Dyholao's soon to be performed. Mr. Secretary to report the progress of the matter to the General Assembly at the spring council of 2018. The conclusion is followed by the following article: It is obvious that this section of highway No. 1 which leads halfway through the village of Viking in the Valley of Moriscos, no longer carries the huge stream of heavy transport and other road traffic through the road. It has long been known that transport improvements are needed in this area. The movers of this council agree that the matter will be accelerated as possible. When environmental assessment is carried out on the treatment of the mildew road around the Myrdal at the Dyholaos, digging through a mountain of testing, and fixing the corner of the south and east of the Viking village, such a environmental assessment is essential for another work to the case. During the past five years, there has been a transwarp through the Vikings in Mindal about Five times as much as you can see in the numbers and information from the Roadmaker. It shows that in May the number of cars increased from 800 to 2,300. In August of the month, the number of automobiles increased from 1,660 to 3,900, and in December, from 370 to 1420. When the increase was much higher than that for people, the 400 - man village in the Viking population is amongst the most traveling places in the country and is, in fact, considered one of the five largest. A memo in which the Myrdalship of Snowship has worked in the lowland road through the Snow Valley reports that such a road was part of the main organization of MIrdalship since 2013. It also shows that the necessary conditions for the road are certain of the balance of the coast south of the town of Viking as well as the assessment of the environmental impact of the lowlands of Myrdal with Dyrholaose, a natural monument. Work is now being done on new coastal seafronts, but the seaguard garden built in 2011◯2012 has given us a good experience and shows the importance of this project and is essential to the management of the south village's coast. On the website of the Roadmaker, we are told about the marine protection of Vikings: ▪ The prisoner has proved his true value, stopping land erosion between him and a mountain of testing. Another east area to defend the land is now being built between the two sandy prisoners, while the coast remains untarnished. That area is far east of the proposed reverse. A respectable president. However, in order to prepare transport decisions, and to avoid unnecessary delays, these authorities stress the need for environmental impacts to be done as early as possible. Looking forward to a better estimate this year and not later than at the next. It is necessary to determine the core proposal, both in order to start the project if the environmental assessment results are positive, but also to avoid losing time to attack the correctities on the Street Bridge, which will be necessary, if the result becomes negative. It should be noted that although the tunnel is mentioned in the tunnel's last approved transport program, the tunnel does not establish a transport plan. A transport program, however, provides funding for repairs on the Gatnab bridge. This action will not be necessary if environmental assessments will be positive and lowland roads and a tunnel through a mountain of testing will be practical. Lowland roads through the Snow Valley at Dyholaos would improve traffic security and eliminate one mountain road and a difficult vehicle for winter winter weather along the way from Hellishek to Mount Roar. No. Of course, 1 about the Bridge could be fixed and added for safety, but the way through the Street Bridge and down to the Viking will always be the mountain road closed for several times each year. The importance of this procedure has long been understood, as can be seen in the following text of ratings prepared in 1982 in the support of cohesion for Hólah Revapps and Hakmbrepps. By permission of the President: A new route of transport through the region closer to the shore by means of trying mountain tunnels is needed, thus linking the Viking trade and rural areas beyond the village even better than at present, especially with regard to new future employment areas. One of the worst obstacles to snow in winter follows in the South to the Horn of the South would be removed by tunnels through a mountain of testing. If transport is to be arranged to put in place by the secretary of transportation and the secretary of the district, it will be entrusted to ensure that the road is done with environmental assessment as soon as possible and that the secretary announces the order of the General Assembly before the end of the spring. I'd like to state that the reason why the request is presented here is so that an informed decision can be made regarding the continuation of this important matter for subspecies and for those who travel through the area.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u3	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a bill to legalize the annual bill, No. 3/2006, the presence of accountants at the main meeting, on behalf of the Economic and Business Committee. As noted in the report, this bill was previously submitted to a Council of 146th. The Economic and Business Committee discussed two prime points, one on changing the law on the insurance policy of pension and pension funds, No. 129/1997, on the other hand, about the change in social law, No. 2/1995, which suggested reviews of pensions and partnerships, would be obliged to respond to funds and/or shareholders on accounts and financial issues of the fund or partners at annual meetings or shareholders' meetings. These bills were taken at the time. ex-wife. Will Bjarnason's son. Based on the opinion of the relevant legal accountants' indications regarding the bill, the Committee puts this bill into place for a change in the law of annual accounts, No. 3/2006, instead of changing the law on related insurance rights and the operation of pension funds and community law. The 3rd issue, 1st. 107th par. a law on annual accounts now says that in the Member States of Europe's Free Trade Association or the Faeroe Islands, accountants should attend the main meeting. The committee suggests that the obligation will be extended and extended to all legal agencies obligated to select an accountant or accountant, as spoken by 96th and 98th. The law. According to 2 mg. 107th par. the bill of annual accounts should be answered by the accountants at the main annual assessment meeting and have signed or signed. The change makes it more certain that an accountant will be present at the main meeting and therefore can respond to annual requests. I'd like to add that this is to ensure the availability of shareholders and funds in pension funds to the accountants, thereby increasing transparency in terms of partnerships or funds reviews. However, the bill changes in nothing, for still the rulers and funds are responsible for the financial information presented in annual accounts as well as for its implementation. A reviewer is responsible, in turn, for the revision he has performed and for the opinion he has given the annual bill on the basis of it. I suggest, most respected president, the bill will be referred to a 2nd. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u4	V.E.G. President. I agree with a president that it is surprising how few members of the Parliament are involved because the subject on the agenda now and I recommend is probably one of the most important matters in this council, in this council, which is important to our country's homes. I recommend a bill to correct a change in growth and insurance laws, No. 38/2001, with subsequent changes. With me, the carriers are cool. Councilmen Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson Anna Kolbrönótttir, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson of Sjön, BirgggiBirgir Þórarinsson, Jónsson, and Bergþór Ólason. The bill in itself is extremely short and simple. I'm gonna read the bill just the way it is. 1st par. By permission of the president, it reads: ▪ Following the word "to eat " in speech 1. 1.mg. 14th par. The law comes with no housing teams. 2.g. This law already comes into effect.◯ This unscrupulous change, if approved, will continue to be replaced by a change in national prices prices without housing. And what does that mean? Well, it can be said in a single word what this would have meant if the bill had become legal a year ago. You see, the latest inflation test in the last 12 months was the one that had been reported to be 2.3% in Iceland. But without housing teams, in some cases inflation would have been negative, i.e. A solution would have been about 0.9%. Betrayal loans in the country are considered to be about $1,500 billion. This would have saved 50 billion dollars for the homes of this country. if the bill had been approved 12 months ago. Groups here at Parliament have had it on their policy list for some time to cancel insurance. This bill is in itself a fine first step, i.e. to correct, even now, the ground of insurmountable loans is measured so that the risks of borrowing are not all in the custody of homes in the land, but are involved in credit institutions. This is a fine start because as we consider how to eliminate the insurance on the head, it is an excellent step to ease those who have been given such loans because insurance will be canceled, which must be a goal to which we all plan. I said before, if this bill was made a law or law last year, it would have saved the homes of the country 50 billion dollars. Similarly, the present system has cost the country's home about 180 billion in the past six years, considering that if this bill had been legal six years ago. It is widely known in the OECD states that it uses a so - called uniform index. Inside it is a facility consisting of the operating cost of housing and rent, but there is no place for housing in insurance or inflation. And another thing is that Iceland's housing market is this way, i.e. Both the cost of housing and the price of rent, and the rent is immature that in itself it would not be fair, and it is not fair to house as it is, and its development in Iceland is raising the interest of the people of the land. The greenhouse market has been particularly difficult over the past few years, both because of lack of property and a lot of property has been undergone, unsponsored use of proben, below the Earth, that is likely the largest underground economy in Iceland today. This has even been true. has led to excessive housing in Iceland. In the past, it was quite correlated. There was some correlation to the development of indexes with and without housing teams, but around the year 2003, there was a difference. At that time, the price of the bill or the price - price index number, including the housing team, began to form a huge gap between them. This treasure has been paid from the homes of the land to this day. It's not fair, no less than that, and that's why this bill is submitted. I have to say, Mr. President, I was expecting that the discussion would stand here in the daytime because I don't know a lot more of the issues that come to this council. True, I'm glad to hear that the forward party is in the hall. The group recently proposed a decree to investigate how, and how, to push the mortgage out of the index. With this bill, that proposal in itself is unnecessary. I expect all the candidates who have had their policy, at least last time I knew, the opportunity to revise the index and insurance policy and how the index is built. I really hope that we tourists have the support of the candidates in this case because we've taken them off the hook. Of course, we can understand that they are in a narrow position to present themselves a bill on this subject, seated like mice under the boards of government cooperation and both sides. This time, however, they have the opportunity to support a matter that I know they are in their hearts willing to accept. All you need is a little bit of guts. I'm also very curious and curious to see how the representatives of other classes, such as the left greens and communities, will accept this because there are groups that have balanced their policies and fought for the rights and terms of the worst. That is why I also believe that there are rich people within them to be part of the project presented in the bill, to support the country's home, and to make their foundation permanent. During the last term, when a debt correction was made, there was an elevator, and it has not been made out of existence. To this day, those who enjoyed the correction of debt enjoy a low load on loans. Those who have had the opportunity to participate in special savings, which was part of that solution, also see less credit. This has led to the failure of Icelandic households to be one of the highest in neighboring countries to be the lowest. But it's not enough to do, Mr. President, and that's why we need to alter the wrongs of the current indicator-separation loans. I expect big people to rise up on their hind legs, try to protect their interests. I don't expect the bill to be welcomed into the financial system. I don't expect the bill to be held in particular today, e.g. In America's Pension Funds. And as close as it is now, the funds owned by the labor workers of Iceland in itself have worked harder and harder to protect this system that has been established decades ago, which is called insurance. The winds that blow on the labor movement now, fresh, hopefully make the labor movement and its leaders join us, for it is not fair that the country's home, borrowers, should carry all the risks of taking over a roof over their heads. It can't be called fair, and it's not fair. And it is not acceptable at those times to tell people about 30 years of age, who are just finishing their studies and who want to buy their first apartment, what we offer them. We're offering it a 40-year insurance loan. These are the best loans. What does that involve, Mr. President? For the next 40 years, the borrower pays off four times. He pays it four times and then retires. It's a wonderful life. Educate well, come to 30 years of service, borrow, buy an apartment, and pay it four times, and then retire. Can you imagine? This is what we are offering young people to this day. It's a disgrace. Mr. President. All the things I've traced show us beyond any doubt how unjust this system is as it is now. While the country's home is full of loans for housing, because there is not enough insurance to be unfair and unjust, as it is calculated today, but growing in Iceland is with the highest people building on the basis of the National Social Policy Committee. Which appears every two months and plays a clown, is made up of interest decisions that are completely different from those of traditional societies. To be honest, it's distressing. The growing stage in Iceland is unbearable. But good things happen slowly, and the book on the road says that a 1,000 - mile journey will begin on one step. Maybe that's what's going on here today. We're starting a 1,000-mile journey for the homes of the country with this step. I don't believe it to be true until I see it that the bill won't be appreciated by all the people sitting here. To be honest, I can't tell you anything but why. All councilmen take their place in the country because that's what we're doing with this bill. Now there's a bargain door in Iceland. I believe deep down that cases like this can be inserted into collective agreements. I know that the expenditures of homes to get up a roof over their heads are an important factor in the overall expenses of their households. If the employee body sees that it's being lowered, being at home, I believe that it might affect the demands of these parties. I believe it. If we now form a growth stage too, as necessary, I also believe that the country's business can be better equipped to take on pay raise, salary demand of employees, because the businesses of the land are naturally under the same sale, in terms of security of loan. The companies in the country are experiencing the exact amount of insurance available to them. If this case comes up, I believe it could have a good effect on a future dress interview and there could be one of those little blocks in the big Lego's getting into real status. It is likely that inflation is taking place. That happens naturally in the exception of collective agreements. In this case the companies take to protect themselves from potential and future elevations or changes because of a probability of increasing inflation. And then this is the subject, this bill, more urgent. They've been heard, and I've heard them say if the timing of the case is correct because we're now on top of the pace, and we've got to drop down afterwards, which could mean that Iceland's house prices would decrease. I've said, while 17,000 apartments are missing in the capital area alone, there is no decrease in housing prices in Iceland. I'm sure he is. Looking back on the last two or three decades, it may be in one area where prices of housing have been dropped, so to speak, that remains to be noticed. It was during the collapse of 2008◯2009. In other respects, property prices and housing prices have been kept completely. So there is no danger that, although this change was made, the matter would turn into its opposite direction and go out to cost those who borrow. There's no danger of that. I reiterate what I told you earlier that I expect the support of all the senators at the bill. It's time. I was asked, is this the right time? My answer is, when is not the right time to be on the side of the homes of the country? Is there any time that is not right? Is there some time in which we should let the interests of our country continue to exist? No, there isn't a time for me. He doesn't exist. That's what I say. Councilmen: I expect there to be a good discussion here, big case. That's one of the biggest things we can do at this council, and let's take it down with a picture. Let us send the matter to a committee, where this will be well discussed. Let us discuss with the stakeholders of the committee. Let us hear the argument that this matter should not be brought about, let's hear it, let's bring it out. That too will be an interesting discussion. But by all means, let's accept the bill. Let's get our hands together, huh? Councilmen, for the homes of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u5	V.E.G. President. We're discussing a bill about changing the interest laws and insurance that turn to the index price of consumer living. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's story. A lot of things were interesting. First, I'd like to say that the insurance policy is that when it comes to consumer loans and mortgages, it may not have sounded as loud as the other, because the fact is, we've been living at merit levels for four years. Because this was not clearly evident in the history of the wildebeest. I'm just going to ask you directly, what measure is it? A senator based on the changes planned that Iceland's National Bank of Money should make a decision?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u6	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. He's right. It's not that much of a discussion on how to take out your last year's insurance insurance policy has been achieved, and before I think it's not just because it's been stable. I think it's also because the players and the people who fought for this most during the second term simply lacked the courage to follow this issue. As I came into my speech in several parts, U.S. funds policy is an independent problem. Many proverbial economists, such as Dr. Ólafur Margeirsson, have agreed that both the anti-inflation predictions of the Penitentiary Bank are based on what it does. Their interest decisions have been far away from the real world. Four years and also that, in itself, it is not the elimination point for the economy as long as interest is 4.5% here or 2.5% that they could easily be. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u7	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. When such changes are made, this is one of the major factors to consider and apply professionally. Just to be perfectly clear, I've been able to live with the fact that we're not making a decision to grow according to the general prices of consumer property loans. The decisions made by the Department of Money Control have been weakened that this large stat is deserving of security. In fact, the Secret Bank has recognized it, and on what basis? A senator completely agrees there. The bill speaks of a index without housing teams. Most economists are now aware that housing costs have to be weighed in some way into such indicators, which measure the general price change over a period of time. Five factors enter this evaluation, including electricity and fever. This is point 042 of this index. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking why. A member of Parliament: Is it a matter of taking the unique task that has to do with the user's expenses or simply the entire mortgage so that housing is kept inaccessible? [[The president calls.]] Excuse me, Chief. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u8	The president's rights to respect a talk period, pointing out that all thanks at the beginning of a one - minute talk takes half of the talk period.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u9	V.E.G. President. You're absolutely right. According to one senator, Iceland's World Bank on the basis of models that are not very strong, not very stable, not very accurate. In terms of whether this refers to the removal of the entire staff from the index, it was correct and, using probe, the National Habitat of Iceland measures every six indicators each month, and as I said in a speech during the day, Iceland's Secret Bank sends out the wrong decision for interest. As I said earlier, it is an independent problem, but of course the Habitat continues to measure this cost, this index with the cost of housing inside, so we know where we are, so that information is available, but it should not be at the expense of the homes of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u10	Mr. President. This is interesting. This has long been difficult for economists, and they debate over how best to measure prices. I'll first admit that the tools we have here in Iceland are defective, really maligned. I'm not sure that this suggestion will solve the defects. In fact, I seriously doubt it. I generally agree that it is unwise to rely on the changes in real estate prices when it comes to testing inflation, just as I believe it is wrong to have an index change in prices that are not inflation, e.g. conducted here, including reimbursement increases or tax increases and then a multiplication effect. I'm asking why. A senator: Would it not have been more reasonable to focus on the real prices and, on the other hand, to see if we should not withdraw tax and tax increases from the index?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u11	V.E.G. President. I know that I'm in the chest right now. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son is beating the heart of an equal. This has been noted in discussions during this council, both on the affairs of the disabled, the desperate, and the elderly, and so forth. Therefore, I know that he is concerned with the interests of those who are reaching their feet. Yeah, I guess it's interesting at what. A senator asks whether it would have been any closer to taking out the increases that each year's government detracts. On the other hand, I look at it, and it was now shown in the budget that the government accounts for each year's expenses are in itself a very old - fashioned screw. I don't know why the State is going ahead with a bad example for every year, raising all the government's extra fees for some calculated figures that some Santas upstairs in the Ministry of finance have found out in the Excel Record. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u12	Mr. President. If this were only once a year, but this is often a year, these are the requisite increases in public companies, or these are the increases that rural communities are performing often each year. I'm gonna ask you what. One question asked: He is not afraid that the only thing that happens if we take real estate out of the index, housing prices, it will lead to an increase in the name of the prices of interest, i.e. that instead of being 4%, they go up to 4.5%, etc.? In addition to taking into account the risks that come with it, I fear that we are just a little self - deception, instead of attacking the disease itself, which, of course, is economic instability - we have enjoyed the past few years of wearing a constant price, but I agree with it. A member of the Federal Bank's budget policy needs a review, and I also want to show that the influx seas in effect maintain interest levels and are de lfacto form of a tax system in a company and home. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u13	A respectable president. The person standing here is not afraid of anything. But it is evident that credit institutions will raise interest because, as we all know, money prices are usually put together as they have been in Iceland, either from the interest itself and on the other hand, the insurance. In fact, it does seem so well that the country's pension funds have recently seen an opportunity to reduce growth, but of course, they have had financial benefits. Action like this will require a powerful economy. Let's not get into trouble with that. And, of course, it's necessary that Iceland is a strong economy. It has been now for the past few years. We have been living in practical, external situations. We should use them. But if U.S. loan agencies were to go up to some big names, I thought we wouldn't be lonely here on the East Coast.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u14	A respectable president. Thank you for the discussion here. I'd like to ask a storyteller. The point that humans will likely discuss in this context is the effect of potential loss of real estate prices on the market, whether it will include borrowers of potential loan decrease. Has any prominent authority considered whether this effect over a longer period of time is superior, or does it account for a major hazard in all aspects of the matter that real estate owners, insurance insurance loans, are the result of a decrease in capital loans, the result of a demeaning effect on the market? Then I'm looking at it over the length of time, but not for a short time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u15	V.E.G. President. In itself, I view this aspect of the experience as being finalized. As I spoke in my speech earlier, during the past two to three decades, the financial breakdown in real - estate prices has been observed. As long as the demand for a home is the way it is here and now I see no evidence that conditions are at all. A senator describes a price. If we look over a longer period of time, I feel that this point is almost impossible to find fault with the borrowers. I have no faith in it simply because, as I said before, 17,000 apartments are just missing in this area. In such a situation, there will be no decrease in housing prices. There is no evidence other than that Iceland's economy is going to be in pretty good shape, even though we are just getting down on the edge of the economy. [[The president calls.]] I don't think there will be a turning point in the economic climate.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u16	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Has it been examined to some extent in the preparation of the case whether it is desirable to suggest to the Haust that it expands an index, but to take special note of the cost of management, with the aim of making use of the future parts of real estate rather than an investment rate? Is this part of the six indicators held by the Habitat? Is she taking this thing?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u17	Mr. President. Now, in my discussion with the Office's representative, they have their place in the record. They have said, "We're here to gather information in the index. " Then there's yours, i.e. The politicians, working with them. I don't see any reason why if we're impressed with this measurement, i.e. Without housing indexes, it is not in itself clear enough to hide the Habitat to measure it. A senator proposes, i.e. the cost of operating facilities, electricity, fever, etc., is in. In fact, there was one point in the matter. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son earlier, in fact, we're also given up because there's real estate bills that are raised by rural society by means of a year's gap in some imaginary number that humans have found out, so this should only be avoided. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u18	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's villager for transporting this bill. I'm one of his co-stars at this bill, and I'm glad to hear it. Hv. paritaprevir Sæmundsson noted that long travel began at one step, and has long been waiting for some action on the ghost that benefits housing and prices are usually paid. But I'd like to ask the senator, because he's been giving some big talks and asking questions about control interest. Don't you think you'll play interest and inflation on the pension fund? I'll find it better in my second answer. But doesn't this all play together, have high interest and inflation in that context?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u19	Mr. President. That's a very interesting question. Yes, I've been saying in speeches that Iceland's Peace Bank is an inflation charge. I'm building it on the fact that these growth decisions weigh heavily on the business of the country that often has no choice but to consider these same decisions in its price of service and merchandise, which means that they are making inflation. They're creating a cost-inflation. The case, however, is that the financial system in Iceland, including the late bat, is in some sort of cycle. It's a little bit like a dog chasing his tail. No one depends on running out of this circle, either by reducing the growth rate, by changing the indexes or doing both. [[The president calls.]] This bill is a step toward breaking this vicious circle.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u20	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. Our team had it on their campaign policy list in the fall to aim to build up the financial funds to see their advantage in investing more abroad. Now the owner of the pension fund is 3.5%, which plays naturally into the high interest in the country. When does the senator realize that this work could begin, that the pension funds would see the expected chance of investing more abroad? Then they would reduce the demand for fruitage and growth in the country in general. I know it's a big question.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u21	V.E.G. President. Yeah, you're right. You're right. You're right. A member of the Parliament and the Central Party have shown very good evidence that Iceland's pension system is relatively more important to stock markets. It's similar to if the Norwegians let their oil reserve into a stock market in Norway that they don't really come into a living mind but that invests the oil reserve almost entirely out of Norway. In a similar way, it could be said that there is a solution to the removal of the pension fund, the obligation to invest in foreign lands to a greater extent. Now they're inconceivable, I'd be happy to admit it, but they're participants in a competitive market, which in many cases favors competition in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u22	Mr. President. I welcome this discussion and thank the prime speaker for his extensive history. If I mention this in all modesty, in recent years I have had many opportunities as a regular resident at a popular radio station to discuss the subject on which the program is going to take place, i.e. The insurance policy, although the bill is specifically responsible for a single factor in it. There are many things to do in this regard. Perhaps we should start at the beginning and reflect on how this arrangement was established in this country. In 1979, when things went by in the end of the decade that were attributed to one of the finest political partys I especially want to remember here, the forward party, we had lived through a number of economic difficulties. As in the case of the world, inflation was high in this country, for the world had been riding on two oil - price explosions from the oil - producing nations that are known for the short - term use of OPEC. There was a 4-fold increase in oil prices for the second time and a double in the second time. This led to great inflation in many parts of the world and to high growths. We did not take part in this, and people know that savings burned up, and they had to look for ways to protect their money - making possessions, to place them in possessions, or to something like that. It was under such circumstances that the insurance system became widely available in this country. Previously, there was a well - known example of securities that had been published, especially by state funds, etc. But what characterized the land back then was that there were no financial markets that could ever live up to that name. There was no stock market, there were only three bank banks and then savings. A bond market was very imperfect, and the economic and economic lives of the people of the land were very different. Of course, that's different. Here financial exchanges have developed, diverse financial institutions have developed, and many persons who are specialized in the production of possessions have come to the fore, and there are ways to protect their assets from insurance, resulting in multi-channel financial products that are sometimes called, and can enjoy a variety of specialized services in this area. The basic premise behind the insurance policy was to defend these money - making assets, which is natural long gone because society is different in finance and all of it. During the operation there, but as noted, this happened in law that is generally taught by Ólafur son of Jóhannesson, who was prime minister at that time, the so - called Olafurs law, No. 13/1979 - it includes, in a sense, a certain recognition that society's structures were incomplete in financial respect. We didn't have a financial market. We don't have these diverse financial institutions. The late bank had no policy in money issues that could live up to that name, etc. The present - day economy was only in the future. She didn't exist back then. That's why I'm reviewing this, Mr. President, that so peculiarly, what this system, which is set up in all social conditions other than ours now, is all another organization in economic and commercial affairs that we live in, should have dug so deep that it's like trying to climb the 30-year hammer trying to interfere with it. We've got one shot of what's wrong here. To deal with one aspect of the insurance system, the mortgage. I'm going to discuss that aspect in a few words. As a measure of prices around the world, the quality of the home is assessed as one team, i.e. the use of facilities. There is no consistent formula. Although in the field of the living room, men have cooperated greatly with one another, including the European Union's Eurostat, the economy, has not been able to create a formula that is generally agreed on by men in these areas. But we're here with a very special version. It is so that the problems we have had in housing with insufficient housing caused by many of the reasons known, including the policies of important and large rural communities on land, find their way into this facility. And these problems lead to increases in prices. They can find their way into the mortgage. In recent years, the house - to - house service has increased so much and weighed so heavily in the index that although the general prices in the country have subsided according to the accepted standards of Iceland's Habitat Office, this field is so strong in this index that people who are fortunate, of course, should enjoy this development in terms of prices. No, the joint goes up the index all the time. If we raise the increase on top of the figures that are best known about the amount of living loans available to buy housing, the increase to tens of billions per year will be measured. What are dozens of billions of people? Who knows? The value of cod in Iceland is tens of billions of dollars in one year. So it's a sum of money that's just put on the house's loans and automatically. In the same way, these financial institutions, whatever names, have these new requirements. I recall, Mr. President, that before Christmas, the government was fulfilling some climate objective because she has signed a contract in Paris on climate issues. As a result, the climate is increasing by about 50% something called a carbon charge that goes on gasoline and diesel and something. So a charge on gasoline rose from 5.50 bucks. on a quart to 8.25 per litre. Wait, what does that mean? That means an increase in index, of course, not much. But this loan class is so huge that even such a small change in one or three extra numbers raises the loans of the households to a minimum of 500 million. K. It's half a billion. Similarly, the demands of these loan institutions increase over 500 million homes. K. But what have these loan agencies done to deserve to have new demands on people, a home of 500 million dollars?? And behind the demands of these financial institutions, which may be ideal, is a fundamental force for the Icelandic legal system. From the past, people know how much power there is and what the consequences can be if people are unable to deliver. So you can see from this little example what this system has been led into a complete and complete failure. These views are recognized by people. They know. It's been so much in public. You know that one side of the contract and always the weaker, the lender, to the stronger the lender takes all the risks of price change any way they may be bushes. What does it mean in English? This means that the borrower will publish the cash insurance for the Agency that any change in prices, regardless of its domestic nature, due to natural disasters, due to economic failure in Brazil, whatever it is; the borrower pays cash insurance. It doesn't matter. No one's asking about it. And he also pays if the government is going to follow its goals in climate. So this borrower, which is just an ordinary person, a home, takes on, and he's supposed to pay this financial agency if something moves, no matter how much or how little it is to raise prices, he should pay. There is no difference in the magnitude of these elevations. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kálmson said it might be right to draw out bills and taxes, I guess he was referring to indirect taxes. That is a fine tip, and a very good price is paid. But as many times have been noted, why would it have to do with any person in a contract on loan whether anyone will raise a bill from some government agency? Why should it touch this loan agreement and then, at the same time, all the loans in the country? Why should it be relevant to an employee to a loan agreement if the government decides to raise carbon pay or if the government decides to raise gasoline and alcohol and tobacco because there is some need and good cause in the country? Why should it be of any importance to those who are involved in a loan trade? It's just natural. It's so ridiculous. But no matter how many times this has been pointed out, it has been pointed out over and over in the past few years. But it doesn't matter, the only thing that meets all these views I let myself mention here, this mismanagement of risk, this arrangement is that another lender should make it up to the other person to have a tax increase in the country, like another credit deal should pay the taxes for someone else's taxes. Then, naturally, what has been pointed out many times is that this contract is in its nature complex, made up of two contracts. It consists of a loan that is designed, as we know, to be a fine listener, and the financial insurance system that is often referred to as the route of financial exchange. Besides, people are being pressured to understand this. And what is responsible for this? By their possessions and means of wealth, there are well - known examples of those who receive possessions and who pay from their income for years thereafter. Mr. President. I would have liked to have more time, but I must respect this deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u23	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Ísleifsson Ólafur excellent speech indeed! I thank him very much for reviewing this historical summary that he did so well in his speech. Of course, it's absolutely onions right. According to one U.S. senator, we are living here for some time, all the situation in the economy other than when insurance was originally imposed. It was a time when we know who are only older in this room that if there was a frosting in South America, coffee rose, and the price of the haircut was raised by the hairsker and the loans of the people went up. This is not welcome. But I just wanted to ask what. A senator about one thing where I look off into Iceland's financial system as a whole. I've had a feeling about a few years ago that the banking system is dependent on the fact that it's an insurance policy on loans. And not just the banking system, I remember that when the first ideas came up to cancel the insurance policy on loans, i.e. In a loud way five years ago or so ago, Iceland's Secret Bank rose to its backside and published that it would certainly be impossible to tear down the insurance on loans. I just wanted to ask you what. Senator: Is he willing to agree that the national financial systems at the Federal Republic of Nations depend on their decision-making and management that this is and will become insurance?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u24	Mr. President. Thanks for the inquiry. While it may be difficult to make universal claims on this subject, it simply means that they have more money than they owe, so that they increase the index to them and increase their natural demands, just as this is absolutely meaningless. They don't have to do anything. It's just coming. Because there's a theological scholar in this room, I say, it comes like a man from heaven. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Then there's the idea that I think it might be quite possible to say that this has a bigger connection. There is one thing that people say: Price insurance is one thing, so they can get steady interest in banks, but it's not like we're having a lot of competition in these matters. In business and economics, it is learned that when it comes to such a thing as perhaps only three parties are at the root to offer a particular service, it is taught that it is a few. It is soon realized that under such circumstances, even without any special formal conversation or negotiations or negotiations, it is only a mutual understanding of what things should be. The bank may have so much benefit from borrowing that it might be possible for them to be worthy and to have a higher rate of growth so that the people would want to borrow these and thus flee to the lower interest on the valued loans. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u25	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. I sense that we are united in opposing the injustice expressed by another lender carrying all the risks of the loan agreement, while the other party, as presented here, reassembles money in carloads. Now, we've been through, like, what's happened. One senator said that because of the low pay load, people have been driven to take in securities loans. It has been said: It is harder to borrow here with solid growth, unconvinced bank growth, because the load is too much to pay. Then the question is: Would it not be possible to form or cannot be formed at this step, if taken, that circumstances would be possible instead of being added to the head seat each time to pay up the compensation along with interest on each loans such as unsecured loans? I believe somewhat of the monopolitan nature of this change would reduce the burden of payment. I used to speak in my talk earlier than the differences in house - to - house assessments and not housing teams that were spending 50 billion last year. Every home in the country varies between 400,000 and 500,000. So I want to know what's wrong. A senator would agree with me that with this, the possibility that we could start paying these loans down faster and more secure than ever.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u26	Mr. President. It's quite remarkable to think that we're talking about financing apartments and buildings, saying how a normal family can finance their home. That it is not possible to discuss it as far as there is a high knowledge card on price calculus, calculus, and such is an arrangement that no country offers to its people. This discussion couldn't be held anywhere but here, it's completely impossible. Mr. President. I'm going to allow myself to take into my mouth words that we've all heard: I have a dream. I have this dream that we can drag Iceland into a group of Western countries, just one of our neighbors. Don't you think the Norwegians are watching their cousins in Iceland, how smart they are in finance, that they've invented insurance? Do you think if they were convinced that it was clever, they wouldn't record it? We're always convincing ourselves that we can't get rid of this because there's so much fluctuations in the march and all that. But what conditions do they live under? They have an oil jar that swings by a dozen percent - and they're making up insurance? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u27	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for an excellent speech, and I think it would be worth a lot of encouragement to get people to find this speech and listen to it on the Internet, as it were. There are two or three things I want to wonder at. A senator. Here we go. Óli Björn Kárason's senator, in response to the suggestion of the merchant of this excellent proposal, wondered if these changes would simply go up. I wonder what. A senator has some opinion. Now, he has well described that insurance is primarily like a belt and shoulder ties and taste and everything you can do for the lender, so the question arises: Do these anxieties arise? paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son, Kálma, isn't it? I'd also like to think back with a little something. At the time of the collapse, a senator arranged a committee to remind me that I am reminded of the president of the European Union of the United States at that time. It took her a little while to find out that there was nothing to be done about borrowers. There was nothing to be done for those who owed at that time in the collapse. The index could not be unmounted. After we were in debt, we know the rest. Hv. In fact, a senator mentioned it in his talk on the interest of a lender because the index loans rise and the billions just flow out of heaven. I wondered, " How is it that there are so strong people out there who defend this system with their mouths and jaws? ' As far as I can see, it's like that. Iceland's public relationship, employers, pension funds. Is that why it's like a whale. At the beginning of his talk, a senator may have expressed such a lack of knowledge that it has become so composed of our system?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u28	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's question and a good word. I think it is quite true that this is naturally very comfortable for those whom he spoke at the end of his talk. The problem is, if we, e.g. Consider the pension fund, just like the Norwegian fund, the project is to increase the share of the pension fund in foreign property. The last time I looked it up, he had no possessions within Norway's border, so that view must weigh more in time. However, we may not be able to afford to wait for it. Of course, it is only natural to ask if interest may be raised if the housing team would be cut out as expected in the bill under discussion. What in the financial market situation provides for those who practice these loans to increase interest? Speaking of the growth of securities loans, these are interest rates on loans where the borrower has published free cash policy, as I mentioned in my speech, against all prices, and then he can be on top of the money he can pay for granting this cash policy. He has promised to secure the head position against all changes in prices. This is an enormously strong and broad promise, so far - reaching that it takes financial independence from the person who makes such a promise, as I did when I spoke. about recovery. [[The president calls.]] I'm worried about competitive conditions in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u29	A respectable president. How important it is that we also discuss the development of the so - called Olafs law, the way financial markets, and other developments have developed! Let us not forget that, for a time, pay was also an indexal number, which was then removed. The point here is that no index connection is really being submitted; the index calculation is being suggested, i.e. that property goes out, but there is still a set cost of business and such at the facilities that are in the index. Now I don't know what it is. A senator can remember it in me if a certain period is over - I can't quite remember what time period it was, but if we look back a little behind time and the index number is calculated the way it is done in Europe, for example, in Denmark, it was really inexplicable when it came to the development of an index on the market. It's negative. I really think I've seen some numbers about this and the calculations at what's happened. a traveller of this proposal not quite long ago. It is striking how much this has a bearing on our community, on the calculations as well as on the status of our homes. Somehow I feel like they've got it today. The members of the council here have rather described a sick system, a system where homes stand while those who give the people the money sit and gain weight without having anything to do with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u30	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Sveinsson Sveinson. I'll let me pick up his words: a sick system. This system is sick, it's sick. It is based on between parties, and it is based on the lack of market competition. If we continue with the thought that I mentioned earlier, if we become part of a group of Western nations and neighboring nations and view the situation as in Denmark, people there will take housing loans with less than 2% interest. It's all in the way, and - well, I'm afraid I'm saying that any child in later years of elementary school can calculate it from a simple formula what it's worth to pay from this loan for its every dues. It's a complete precognition. We're totally in place. But here, no man knows anything. Then there is another, and they know it, i.e. that growth on uncertain loans - we have a market where interest is made in some market deal. They do so abroad, and we compare with growth elsewhere. However, these insured interest growths are referred to in no context with the outside world. We have no comparison because such growth is not recognized by general loans. Of course, a wealth of money is published in certain terms, but it is a market price for this. Thus, we are here with insurmountable growth that has no practical marketisation behind us.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u31	A respectable president. In 2013 a major economic action, an action that had never been done before, began. It was also about the huge interests of the State on the one hand and on the other hand, for individuals who were known to work hard to maximise their profits. This led to much conflict, but the government responded by showing political firmness. When the national banking system was handed out to hedge funds, what was the least of its actions? When plans were implemented for 2015, it was outlined how to proceed step by step. It was a complete plan. The project was successful so well that it contributed to a more and more rapid economic reversal than there are other examples. About the middle of 2016, however, it came into operation. Currency exports that were supposed to solve the so - called snow - handed problem were repeatedly suspended and changed, including To demand a hedge fund. This cost tens of billions of lives. At the beginning of 2017, it was found that a complete U-city had been taken into account. The Ministers made an announcement to be glad that the hedge fund sold itself a large part of Arion's bank, an indirectly owned by the State, and went along with it at the target of the stability conditions, a group that doesn't even qualify for financial companies and operates on leave. The left government handed the hedge funds to the banks, the government that took them back for the sake of public interest, but now it's come back. Now that the hedge fund draws an agreement from the first year of the left government, an agreement that they had failed to accept, what is the answer to the government? Nice to see you, welcome back to 2009. The government has not even had a perspective on the affairs of Arion banks. As a result, ministers have repeatedly maligned the public speaker and even the rest of the council. Unlike what has now been established, claims that the state is not entitled to the bank. Although the business of the financial system has been greatest in politics for a decade, the government is completely aimless in the litigation. I guess they're supposed to write a white book. She should appear sometime later, and start thinking about the matter. Usually a white book is written in the name of a minister, but now a group of people are working on it at night and on weekends to prepare for a policy development. Meanwhile, the hedge fund is taking over with favor, even the help of the government. Government comes from mountains. She has no idea why the state had to be granted permission for the sale of Arazon, and she had no idea of the government's premium. However, when it comes to the demands of the hedge fund, the government oversees that it is one - sided, undisputed, and unpredicted. On the other hand, the governments would never have decided to let the bank that the State had indirectly bought for them 13% of the government's directly owned except that the government had left everything behind and lost control of the sequence of events. A few days, even a few hours after the government tied a red bow around a 13% share of the state in the bank and handed out the hedge funds to their advisers that 80 billion can be paid out of the bank for profit, and at the same time it was confirmed that the bank's children were worth far more than expected. Now it can be assumed that money will be paid out, that it will be sold in the market, and that the bank will be registered in the autumn. Meanwhile, the government's waiting for the White Book. It may take years to establish the normal property of Arion banks instead of the funds that are used there. One of the most peculiar things. One prime minister has said that the funds could sell the bank because there was a window in the stable conditions. That's not true. There was no window, but there was a door. But the door was locked. They could have been opened, e.g. if the bank was sold to a foreign business bank who had been able to improve the banking system. However, the government gave the hedge funds the keys. They went into town and presented the government to the cold, where it now stands aimlessly waiting for the White Book.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u32	Madam President. Hv. paritaprevir The Sigmundur over the present government of Davíð Gunul, the son of Gunnlaugsson, is so great that the present government knows little about it. I think I can see myself moved to think back to my memory. His own senator did so when he served as prime minister in the stability agreements and, in fact, their background. It's often that way. A senator likes to let the story begin at 0, no matter what's happened before. Of course, that's not the way it is, and it knows why. A senator. I know him well enough so I know he knows all of this exactly. Yes, it is true that this was a 2009 stockbroker's agreement. This has been repeated, and it has been clear to all in this room, as it was passed on to the 2010 Generals and confirmed by the Council of 2012 in the time of government. In fact, the growth of this stock exchange is quite pure, and if we compare what the Icelandic state put in with the restoration of Arion banks according to what other European countries set into the financial system at the same time, during this crisis period, it is a good product, almost 11% in the year since 2009. So I would say that the government that then sat was acting wisely and doing the right thing in protecting public interests because of the situation. A senator will be talking about the interests of the common people. The government has at the stock market in Copenhagen, with a bet in the stocks of Arion, and until the bond is fully paid, the value of the stock that was owned by Copenhagen at the bank in January 2016 will go to the subsidies of the bond. The same is true of remuneration pay made to Stocks from Arion Bank, which takes place in connection with planned sales for the bank stocks. Could it have been any other way? Well, I ask, why did it leave? A senator did not find another way when he had the opportunity to do things in the government? He would have been in a position to take Orion's bank as he had taken over from the state, but he decided to take Arion's bank another route. It was different with methodology, and really it was the stability contracts that pressure the sale of Arazon banks because there is a set time limit on the money payment of January 2019. But that was a government decision. A senator that the state would own an Iceland bank, hold his share in Arion's bank, but, in turn, the state gets presortion of things at Arion Bank and stock agreements, let's not forget, which guarantees the state fund of growing share in the bank's sales value as the sale is higher. I can't figure it out either way. A senator was referring to me when he said there was no premium. It's not. I never said that. The premium is written into the stability meeting. However, I studied it in a talk, and there was a exchange of words with why. At dawn, a senator that has not been activated so far by this premarital course that he is heading for 0.8. It was over, not only by the then government when things were sold in the bank, but also by reason of reason. A financial and business committee led to the conclusion that the premarital rights had not been activated. However, there has been a lot of back and forth, claiming that the premium was activated, but it was not new. The terms of the fixed-up agreement then require that the bank be enrolled in the stock market if the premium is adjusted to the same stability agreement as that. A senator was at his time. I just want to say here that I think that what. A senator did well in these matters when serving as prime minister. In fact, I believe the previous government did the same. I believe that since 2009 governments, which have guided public interest, that the agreements, whether the stock agreements between 2015 and 2016, have been successful. I would've thought what. A senator was keenly aware of the fact that the stability of the meeting - and the use of proben - is a direct substitution of the 2009 stock convention, so that if it had been agreed to do so, a change of agreement was appropriate. Then this replacement contract is made that I think it's important to keep up, i.e. On the one hand, the government's financial fees are divided into goods according to the final price of the bank and its property. Also, much has been discussed here as a result of making money from the bank and how it can be emptied from the bank by means of payment but by the continuation agreement as the government. The senator made sure that the State will also be given a share in this interest. I would have thought that this was a well - kept affair, and it all seems that the State can get up to 150 billion out of the contribution made by the State in its time, in 2009, through the stock market. I would've thought we were what we were doing. A senator should combine here with the success of governments over the years in securing the interests of the public in the restoration of the financial system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u33	Madam President. The bank's sales career is blurred, and the bank's future vision is unclear. The process promotes suspicion and distrust. First of all, I'm gonna mention that the former assistant is the top assistant. The secretary of finance was on both sides of the table, first on the design of conditions and then on the part of helping the demands to come as best they could from those conditions. It is clear to everyone that those who were working on the stability conditions of the government during the reign of Sigmundur, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, had access to confidential information that is relevant to the interests of the Icelandic state. So it is nothing more than a scandal that the contract has the highest. The secretary of finance did not insist that those who worked for him in this work would not work for the demands while the requirements were met. Second, according to former chairman of the Independence Party, the decision to take Arion banks was to take a different route than the other banks. When it comes to the financial system and the getting of the independent people to sell banks, the tracks scare. Third, the demands are that they can control the price of items in the bank and adjust it so that the state does not have a premium. The prices and dates of contracts are kept in check, and this prevents the government's premium from working. And it seems that other potential benefits from the State also have the demands. For this reason, the Convention on Stability Was Not Supported. The whole process must be transparent and open, but it is not. We don't know who owns the hedge fund or who's going to own and controls this big, systematic, important bank in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u34	V.E.G. President. I didn't quite understand why the founder of this discussion spoke as he spoke. He has the greatest honor to know how well he has handled these matters with this bank all together. Of course, what matters to us is the interests of the public and the risks. We have achieved remarkable results, especially since governments have gone about their business. paritaprevir The Sigmundur over Davíð Gunnlaugsson's career reduced the risk by not taking both banks as a donation, as a stability, but only another bank, Iceland bank, and not this one, and then making sure that if some special profit is beyond our ability to see, we will get a share in that profit. I think it's brilliant as a dog. paritaprevir Of course, Sigmund Davíð, Gunnlaugsson's son, along with others, stood before him. That government was outstanding in these matters and attained better results than anyone could ever imagine. Now, the discussion that we could have gained more by taking advantage of some premium that was never active. I don't know anything about that. Perhaps we could have made more money if we had taken all the risk and bought the bank or just taken it to us. But I don't think it's worth the risk. I think that would have been a huge mistake. We're getting huge crops, much more than we could ever hope for. Now the discussion may be about who owns the bank. Is it bad owners? I don't know anything about it, but we have the arrangement that there's a government that decides whether owners qualify to do it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u35	Madam President. For a long time, many people have suspected that there are some conflicting factors involved with Arion's bank. The stable agreements and the real owners of Arion banks have been classified. Once again, the lack of rationalization of suspicion and secretism reduces the community's ability to eliminate internal ills. But after much overcrowding, Pirata's concern is that the danger of property targets or, by permission of President, is in Czech. The concept was invented in the Czech Republic during Communism because it was only a daily bread to export property and profits from companies to the majority of the business owners at the expense of minor owners and taxpayers, like the richest people in the block, will be able to take everything out of the partnership without demand. President. There is a problem with the 2015 stable agreement that can be used to empty the inside of Orion's bank, make a profit in the form of unscheduled stocks and bonds owned by Anion, the best pieces of such as Valitoor o.f. When the bank's sales value is low enough, there will be no exchange for sales. Then the State simply gets nothing. And in the contract, only the money in Icelandic dollars is said to be paid. More financial companies have seen a similar game on a table, as we now see with payment on the local stocks or from the local community. This would be a multifold theft from the common people on the basis of a faulty agreement, and whether it was deliberate or not, now is the time to consider rescue. When it comes to paying cash, cash, loans, loans, third parties to ensure that the interests of demands, such as pension funds, minor taxpayers, or taxpayers, will not be placed in the table. Money is only paid in cash, not in society's property. I've put in a bill that's about preventing this risk by limiting the payment of financial contributions to the company's deposit money. It is fundamental now that it succeeds.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u36	V.E.G. President. We're here to discuss Arion's business, and thank you very much. For this discussion, a senator and a advocate, Sigmundur, Gunnlaugsson the son of Gunnak. As shown in the history of a dog. A senator is certainly in charge of enormous financial interests for the State. It's clear to everyone. Our role is clear in this regard, in defending the interests of government funds and the public. This discussion provides reason to evaluate the extent to which the financial system in general is involved in these topics. V.E.G. The prime minister made it very clear. It is good, as it has been, to think about this matter in its timeline since 2009. V.E.G. The minister's reaction to the current Supreme Court was well - thought - out. Governments and governments before that, including Yeah. The phrase was foreordained. V.E.G. Prime Minister commended him. paritaprevir When conditions were set and concluded, Davíð, the son of Gunnlaugsson, for his career in this matter, sailed on both terms. I cannot help but praise it, I witnessed it, and the discussion in no way diminishes in that he has defended the interests of the state's treasure. That may be the most important thing in this matter, and that is what we should watch. First, there is a prerequisite prenup for the object that has turned in 2009 net income of 11.2 billion. One might ask himself, " Would greater risks be possible? ' Where would it be possible to handle that thing differently if we started there? Could it be when the case was recorded in contracts and conditions? I wondered, but then I continue with this series of sessions in the second talk. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u37	A respectable president. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, for starting this discussion and for giving me the opportunity to come back here to discuss the government's Bankiscation. I asked this morning, the highest. Secretary of finance for the State Bank Office and pointed to the 9th paragraph. Act of the Bank County. You're right to the highest. During this discussion, the prime minister will discuss this matter with us too. I'm going back to read 9. Act on state banking, which consists of the conclusion of the operation, by permission of Mr. President: The ceremony will have completed no later than five years after its arrival and will then be laid down. The value of this law was August 20, 2009. On August 20, 2014, the bank office was to shut down, but I understand it is still active. The news on her website clearly shows that she is selling banks, appointing bank governments, etc. What does that mean? The minister answered this morning by saying that this would describe the plans for the bank management to have a life span. Does this describe any plans? And it shall be laid down, and it shall stand there; and it shall be laid down, and it shall be cast down, and shall be laid down, and it shall be put down: Is this some kind of plan? This can't be any clearer. I'm just going to show you that, in my opinion, there is complete uncertainty about all the legalties established by the State Department of Banks since 2014, including the business of the Bank of Araz Bank by the end of February. It's just like paying taxes or punishment. If the law is clear about the end of this situation, you will not pay taxes. [[The president calls.]] The taxpayers would not accept it, and we would not punish on the basis of a law, with the passing of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u38	Mr. President. I appreciate this interesting discussion. I'm one of the very people who know what to do. paritaprevir So did Sigmundur, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, particularly thank you for the manner in which the covenant was conducted and how it was handled with regard to the banking system and eventually to be removed and to protect the interests of the State in those matters. I don't think it's clear that their findings were far better and more practical for the State than men in general dared to hope at that time. I think what we are facing right now, however, is a logical continuation of those contracts. I haven't seen any special intervention on the part of the State yet. Actually, I'd be much more interesting to see how the banks were being handled by the then government in 2009. It was quite a mess to me, but that, in many respects, was able to fix with the stability covenant at the time. It is quite clear, though, that the government gave up a form of custody of the recycling of the economy in its time, which is the subject of a special discussion. But at this point, I don't think there's any sense in it that the state will take over the third bank. I think we should be working on selling them two or at least Much of the two banks now owning the Kingdom. I cannot see the time line drawn in the stability covenants in any way except that the bank's sales were just expected to come right now. Also, in that discussion, it seems that there is no particular race for buying the bank. In fact, selling it has been rather difficult, so I am skeptical about the claims that there is great and hidden value that the wealth of state may be missing in some way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u39	A respectable president. I must be at the beginning of my speech to be less allowed to the highest. Prime Minister says that at the beginning of 2017, probably in March, I don't have an exact date, she and other local representatives in my section of the Economic and Business Committee protests to show that the Premarital Court of the State had not been activated. This is a review, so that it is being maintained. That's one of the things I want especially to come into this crisis of time, which was most vague until recently, that the government funds stood in credit for the hedge fund in the years after a crash. In 2009, the credit work of Arazon's bank was replaced with a share of 13% of property, which was defined against a budget of 9.9 billion. What became evident more than two weeks ago when the demands of the crew wanted to use the legal rights referred to in a 2009 contract, a contract that can be reasoned that the fixed agreements raised in the entire case during 2015? What it turned out was that borrowing was a loan, a loan to foreign hedges in 2009. It was just an amazing thing to do. When faced with a challenge, it was like any other loan. The government received a reimbursed capital with a growth burden of 5% stress on a certain category of government bonds and to emphasize that borrowing was a payment made by the state for the property of which the State had been reassigned repeatedly from the budget. I don't know any example of an amendment of stock transactions involving real trade in a similar way. So I have to ask, did the government funds set out in comparable loans to more members in 2009 and in the following years? What background was behind it, and who decided on this loan and how it was carried out? [[The president calls.]] Finally, I'd like to say, of course, our role is in defending the highest interests of the state. It is the duty of all of us, and we must stand up in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u40	Mr. President. As we have seen, on September 3, 2009, the bank's involvement with Arion's bank has been established as if it were a central partnership between the State and the bank. Then come the stability agreements established by the Government of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunougsson in the bank's scrap shop. The government's banking office, which will take part of the State, was assigned to inspect the terms of the agreement in view of the prenup. The conclusion is that Divorce has one - sided, unambiguous, and uncontracted right to purchase the part of the state's property at Adoni Bank. A maligned advocate, such as the one he has determined to take other steps, could have meant when this agreement was made but is not relevant at all today. In other words, he had the opportunity to go beyond what he chose not to do. Hv. paritaprevir Of course, the Sigmundur over Davíð Gunnler's Gunnlaugsson may have wondered for himself whether a more convenient approach had been made to the stability of a meeting with Adoni's bank in his prime occasion, identifying the world and the public from its decision, if he feels that such information is likely to be of help to him. This, however, will hardly become any more than some form of practice in historical wishful thinking, for what was done is important, not what was not done. The present government is governed by the measures taken and for which it is the key to making contracts and following matters in a way that will benefit the public, and it has been done completely. Of course, all of us can be happy, and we can be so happy as to say something that has been so successful in making negotiations for fallen financial companies and the restoration of the Icelandic economy after the collapse that its situation is now ideally clean. In the fall of 2009, the government's financing of Arion Bank and the terms given to the public return the government's money in a finely fruitful manner. The bank's stability, maintenance contracts, and other property that fall to the state of the bank are also worth a lot of money. In general, then, the situation is good when evaluated according to the interests of the common people.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u41	Mr. President. Less than a decade ago, Iceland went through one of the biggest economic collapses a nation has ever had. If the total bankruptcy of the three Icelandic banks were taken together, it would be a third - largest failure in the history of the United States. We're here at 340 thousand, but the Americans are 330 million. The loss caused by the currency of the Icelandic bank was enormous, and if calculated, it will amount to half of the Marshall help. Then I'm talking about the Marshalls of the United States throughout Europe after World War II, not just the Marshall Support that came here. I don't need to remember here that Marshall aid built up Europe from the ruins of the most destructive war mankind has ever seen. Therefore, Mr. President, I say, the tracks scare. They fear when it comes to major changes in bank ownership. In itself, I see no special reason for the state to have a share in Arion's bank, much less when it is assured that the Icelandic state will continue at least. one of the big banks, like the Lands Bank. However, a large portion of property in the banks must be transparent and have any doubt whatsoever. It should be clear in the way things are valued and the conditions of the contract are met. It must be ensured that public interests are not served at the same time as contracts are respected. At this point, it must be ensured that possession of large, systematicly important banks is normally but that the property of the hedge fund, which had short-term profits, is not desirable in my opinion. Business companies are not like any other business and reflect that in many places. Therefore, it is especially enjoyable that this matter will be considered by the World Health Committee to wish. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví, Gunnarsson. Is that good?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u42	Mr. President. I'm going to begin with one statement: a fixed-up contract as the head of a forward-of-the-art class and an independent platoon, under the seat. The adulation, Sigmur Sigmundur's Davíð Gunnlaugsson, was both political and economic achievements. These contracts were made in the second part of the year or by the end of 2015. They were abandoned at the beginning of 2016, and they likely return some 458 billion in the state funds, much more than we calculated. The two - year increase in respect is $75 billion. The government's fund acquired Iceland Bank as part of the stability of Glitnis's swellings. A government fund could obtain a bank, but a wise decision was made to reduce the risk of government property on finance. After a 13% share, the state's funds are held, and they receive 84 billion bonds, and in time they share up to 70% of the bank's value value value. As far as I can tell, it was the right thing to do. The foreign agreements and the rest considered the government fund to be about 151 billion net income and even better, of Adoni banks. The stability agreements made in the Foreign Force and Independence Party administration have completely changed the economic situation in Iceland - completely changed. I'm telling you, they laid the foundation for us to come out here. We are enjoying their fruits, and we have seen that in parallel with a reasonable government control, we have used this stability project to pay off debt and the government's interest costs have dropped in a few years. That is an achievement, and we should keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u43	A respectable president. When it comes to these topics, statements are often presented, sometimes by numbers, and sometimes by word and not completely obvious what the context is or what it means quickly. It is such a matter that they often need to be studied more carefully. More often than not, it takes some overcrowding. Sometimes it is simply necessary to find out what is going on or at least a need for expertise to help them figure out what the hell is going on. In its very nature, such processes are omnipotent, and there is a greater need for this than in other matters that we try to create transparency to the best of our ability, and we need to be more understanding of it and more ambitious in our efforts to provide this transparency. On the other hand, I have also felt that in these matters a little bit called on by men to show courage or courage or something like that, some kind of manly, romantic value. I have seldom felt short when it comes to financial matters in general in Iceland or elsewhere. I feel that more sense of judgment and knowledge are needed. That's how I feel that we should approach this rather than suggest that there is a lack of courage that makes it possible for the State to intend, for example. agree on the premium agreement. It's not a matter of thinking, it's a matter of judgment, a question of whether it's a good idea or not. It's not a question of how brave you are, how much you're up to. It is important that people make the right decisions, and they need to consider things and understand them to the end. I'm worried that the discussion here might be misleading rather than keeping things out of perspective. Such discussions are naturally tasteful with suspicion, and the reason is that there is good reason. The track's starting to scare. We know the story. There are other interests in many parts of our society, that's just the way it is. We should not pretend that it somehow cannot be. [[The president calls.]] There are questions here. Ex-President staff. Secretary of finance is now on the other side of the table. Why? [[The president calls.]] There's owners buying from themselves. Why? They buy 9.99 when it takes 10% to see if they're suitable. [[The president calls.]] Why? There are answers to these questions, a respectable president, and none of them are convenient.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u44	V.E.G. President. Thank you for this discussion. I concluded my first talk with the part of the State that arrived in 2009 and was sold to the end that the buyer's right was indiscriminate and unconcerned, and nothing else was in the position than to agree with them. It was assessed by Bank County. Then we are next in these chronological agreements. I agree with what. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, they changed here all economic conditions. Hv. A senator named in total 458 billion, if I recall correctly. It's only the object of an Aron bank in this case at 139, it's shown in a financial statement published on the financial and economic offices, and has gone to pay off debt, to lower the interest rate as it was bound to the law of those who were very reasonable. It's changed everything. It's time to celebrate how successful it was. Hv. paritaprevir In that government, Sigmundur Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson, a practitioner, is the prime minister, and he is to be commended. That's why I have to say, more dignified President, after a debate. A member of the council found that I was not sure which way to go. A senator would have wanted to leave. If we look at the total results of this Arion, we will make a statement at 150 billion dollars. It can't be done. There is no other way to say that these contracts were government funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u45	A respectable president. In the case of Arion, there are some things that have an unpleasant tone and that do not appear to increase spirituality or trust. I don't have time to mention just a few cases here. For the first thing, the assessment of the value of a 13% share of the state funds was not measured by the value of important enterprises owned by the bank, such as Valicor and other sponsors, I allow me to say, which are within the stores of this bank, but were used as a formula in the stockholder agreement of 2009. The results of the price assessment are not even identified, since these factors would have been taken into account. However, as people know in this scientific community, using varied methods and comparing them to get practical ideas about what is practical on such property. It is the unpleasant secret of the property of important owners to this bank that is needed to be traced back to the scale of the hedge fund. Third, it appears that there is little resistance within the management system to successful owners, as indicated by the fact that it did not get wrapped up in the SEC to give these agents authority to take an active part in a systematicly important bank in Iceland when the main conditions of the law to which the principle is fundamental are good reputation. It is not apparent that it applies to all those involved. But she must draw much attention to that indication. Hjaltason In view of the clear laws of the State's Bank Office, Dr. g., there's a complete doubt about the legitimate legal gains the bank has had since 2014.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u46	Mr. President. I'm gonna let me talk about what I'd rather be talking about when we're talking about the banking system in Iceland. We have a interest in our neighboring countries, costing our home and working at 200 to 300 billion each year - and we never discuss how we are going to fix this. The cost of money is not to be mentioned anymore. In fact, it seems to me that the job life and the interest groups no longer talk about this cost. We can discern whether the solution should be included in the European Union, the uptake of another coin in this way, or one-sided, or the review of the financial policy, but we cannot escape the discussion. We face this cost every year. Homes face this cost, and we need to find a solution. That is what the banking system is all about. How will we maintain the financial system? It seems to me that this government has appealed to this committee, and it will probably come to that conclusion sometime when the palaces end of this election period. It's 600 billion that we'll pay until it's more than that. How will we increase the competitiveness of the financial system so that competition will result in lower interest costs for homes and businesses? How do we appreciate the effects of the Influx Seas that we have been given in the economic and commercial committees a clear testimony to raise the financial cost of our own but also all our jobs in the country and the public? We see that the effects of decrease in money banks over the past year or by 1 / 6 months do not come from the unscrupulous growth crisis of the influx seas, which are caused by faulty money policy, may be known to me. That's what we're supposed to take care of, and we need to revise this. This is what really matters to us, and home is the most important thing. The cost of growth each year is 2,700,300 billion. I don't understand why we don't spend more time talking about it compared to many of the other things that we discuss in this respectable hall. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u47	A very impressive president. Thank you very much. The prime minister for being ready to attend this discussion today and for those who have participated in the discussion for a very good and objective discussion, hoping that we can build on the conversation that has taken place here today. I want to make one remark, I don't have time for more, with the talk of the highest. Prime Minister. Indeed, prime minister points out that the same way could have been done with Arion's bank was with Iceland Bank, i.e. The state simply accepted the bank. But other than me, I would have liked to go that way, worried that the state would have the whole banking system in its arms, as it was said, all the banks at the same time. Actually, it sounds like the highest. The prime minister is now concerned with independence that it is not good for the state to have too much money in the banking system. But the main thing in this regard, for it can totally be agreed with the view that independent members of the government back then claimed that the way that would be replaced would lead to the same conclusion. That's what she was designed for. She was designed to make the same decision as if the State had promptly accepted the bank. The way to ensure that this conclusion was achieved was all there. Therefore, the government should not allow people like these hedge funds to override rules, allow them to allow them to change the rules afterwards, so to speak, because this is, of course, a question of equality. This is also a matter of the overall workload running along, a plan designed as a whole. You have to run out in one piece. Hence, it is not possible to allow those who have a position to go to the finish line for cheating. But thank you again for your discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u48	Mr. President. I also thank you for your excellent discussions, even though I feel a bit like an self-helper trying to remember a good job at the moment. paritaprevir The winners of the son of Davíð Gunnlaugsson as prime minister, whom I believe was very good, as shown in my first speech, and as a recall during the course of time. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir A minister of finance, set a law on selling property items in financial companies that specifically stipulated how to handle the legal rights to be handled in the 2009 stock agreement, and that was confirmed by law 2012. I'm also going to mention the former U.S.A. Fundamental Minister and former Chairman of the Archivist, Benedikt Jóhannesson, who set up work after a large discussion on the restructuring of the financial and commercial system to investigate specifically the separation of business and investment banks. It will come to the council in the next few weeks, probably at the work of the committee who is writing here a white book, and people enjoy beinglittled. I think it is very important that we get a white book to talk about what is going on after all the major changes that have been made on the financial market. The financial system today is not the same as the 2008 financial system. The work has been greatly modified, but much is left over. It's a matter of possession. I have personally suggested that there be no right to have possession of systematicly important financial companies in low taxes. For example, I want to be discussed when the White Book Committee produces how to handle the property, how to manage the development of the fusion of business and investment banking. It is these additional points that we are expected to take as a body of elders. The fixed agreements were made available to the public by the current government. They would have been better made available sooner, I think they were, at least. paritaprevir When Gunnlaugsson had the opportunity to do so, he was willing to do so. It is important for the public to have access to this so that when we discuss the translucency, I would like to remind you that this is a work to make this information available. [[The president calls.]] There's a government that's been in charge of a government that's been protecting public interest and I'll tell you what. Councilmen: There have been some successes, and I just think that's a good thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u49	A respectable president. There are two points that I would like to take into account following the issues that have been raised in previous discussions on this subject. Now a little intermission is left in the discussion. On the one hand, I want to mention what is involved in making loans and how they would develop into changed circumstances. However, I would like to discuss a case that I don't know was recorded here before, i.e. Smells of it, especially the effects of insurance on the country's settlements, with so - called cold areas in mind. What has happened over the decades with the staff as strong in the index as it is, if we look at the long - term tendency, it is that insured loans of the index price have increased in the rhythms we know at the same time as real prices in cold areas have steadily declined. Consider, for example, an area on the West. We can also take the case of the Sea of Galilee and the Western Islands. Most of the country's settlements have had a much lower value of real estate in their area than the index, which is driven up by the development of real estate prices, primarily in the capital area. There are some underlying contracts, and the development of real estate prices is very different, as we know. This has resulted in a reduction of the financial resources of families, tenants, and businesses on the land. Real value has been replaced by a value or even reduced, at the same time as the securable debt of the enterprise or of the household is increased by the development of real estate prices in the capital area. There's a point I think it should come up with a special examination, because it's had a significant impact on the country over a longer period of time. We are under obligation to take a good look at it, because I don't think it was done sufficiently in the way it was done or not even above its former level. The other thing I wanted to include in my speech is that. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason said "Answer." It was his concern that if his mortgage team was taken out of the index, the lenders would only raise the interest load of some calculated number, he mentioned 0.5%, to offset this. Nowhere in the world is the stock market in which investors are available to provide such paper, and here in Iceland, where paper, the stock most common and most readily available, prices are made by reals, pressures on top of insurance, on average around 4% with first mortgage in concrete. There is no such paper, at least not in the quantity that this is the most common loan paper available to investors. The fact is, if this paper stops being available, investors will only find the second best paper, for, of course, investors buy the paper they think best of three main ways: there are interest, there are risks and length of pay period. Then, of course, debt risks and all of that. But these are the three major factors. Let's just call it the best paper for investing. If it doesn't exist anymore, the investor goes into the second best paper, then the second, until some new balance is formed. The investment will not put this money underneath the pillow or anything else, so life just does not work. That's not the way it is in the real world. The investment will always buy the paper he values best every time. In the United States, paper is offered in the quantity of unrecognized credit, in general, in close proximity to 4% of real estate reals. It is the paper that investors in foreign lands simply do not understand the existence of. But this is the most common offer in Iceland. These two points I would like to mention here, on the one hand, the issue of investing will continue to be searched for the best paper available to them, and the importance of taking into consideration the effects the insurance has had on the private housing of citizens in the country with special emphasis on cold areas where property prices have not increased in any way in the development of real estate prices in the capital area. Thus, money has grown out of these areas and has become an independent problem on top of other urban problems that have been in long chapters throughout the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u50	Mr. President. I appreciate his speaker's excellent input here. He sheds an important light on the matter by considering how to develop the value of real estate development varies from country to country. It also gives an indirect indication of what these human standards believe to be reliable on the price of climate development, this index, including the housing team and, in fact, is imperfect. Consider one factor that is included in such an index. It's a freak like computers and cell phones. This is always to reduce prices as the quality of these objects increases. The thought that it would be an option to tie credit agreements in which normal people are involved, individuals, homes, in such complicated phenomena as this index in fact is always surprising to me, I must allow myself to say. Things have developed and developed, they have become more understanding, and we are in a totally different society than people are tied to this, which involves a kind of rejection that we live in an economy where money is a currency. You come here and say that six horses are borrowed and something like that - in a cashier economy. In a normal country, growth is formed at a market where many share, and it is through those that receive a reasonable amount of credit for the loan, but we are trapped in this tire ride, unfortunately. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u51	A respectable president. I can't help but say what I'm saying. paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Is remnant. A general lender, who probably does his most complex financial gain when he buys his apartment or his house, has no place in these contracts. That is what has been an independent problem on the market here in Iceland, that is a interest rate and how little they react to real conditions on the market. We'll see, for example. The real stress of apartment loans, that did not have a huge impact on the loans when here one of the financial collapses occurred. There was a lot less trade with property for a while, but if there were some normal growth on this market, the growth rate would have been completely improved. Of course, what we need to get into is, first of all, to bring down growth because it works out, to lower real interest levels, and to maintain stability in the economy with low inflation. The main advantage we have, what improves the ideals of the households, and of our companies, is to bring down interest. It's up to one of our main conferences in the Central Party, to engage in that mission. I'm convinced that in this room everyone will agree on this, even though there is a disagreement. But just to reiterate it as a matter of course. paritaprevir Ísleifsson Isleusunsson says: Viitalan is incomprehensible. It's complicated, and it's not the solution that we can live with for a long time, especially with the housing team that treats a special area in a very different way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u52	Mr. President. That may be the point. This arrangement is not open to humans, for people are not offered it elsewhere. I had an opportunity in the collapse to meet a number of journalists and reporters who, after this, took me as a university teacher in this field. I remember a very well - known German journalist. He said, "If this was the way it was at my house, that all the thrones on our apartment loans had gone up by 50% - it was just a street stand. " Shortly thereafter, I met a Dutch journalist and reporter, and she made a similar comment. It wouldn't be any more than here. It is natural to think that people were offered the opportunity to pass through the collapse in such a way as to see that the locks of the loans were raised in this way. Of course, this system is well - known, but it is not used by humans because they do not want it because they do not consider it acceptable. In my earlier talk, I mentioned that if we were to see some of us, we would be quick to adopt our financial abilities. But what we have to offer the world is this. There's no buyer for this product. Besides the fact that we have 30,000 people abroad. Should we invite them to our home in an ice - cold, unfashioned form of insurance? How appealing is that?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u53	A respectable president. I'll just say the word. paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Is remnant: this is a package that no one is buying elsewhere. We've got to figure out a way out, and we need to get the best out of it. I have the same experience by trying to explain our fine system to foreign friends, and of course you will stop very soon. One day you were doing it, explaining the accounts involved, you soon stopped. I hope you can soon stop explaining this inexpensive matter to foreign colleagues and friends. I think what needs to happen and people have to figure out is that investors are gonna be fine outside the boom, getting under the heat lamp. All of this will be dissolved. They don't think, the argument where you ask, and they say, "Why would anyone want to lend money if he doesn't get it back plus interest? " Those who have money, some have a lot of money, they have an assignment, if they intend to, to increase them. It can go both ways. We know that. There was quite a bit too much in one direction in our crash. Investments are adults who will survive and realize that the world is hard and deserving of money can go up and down and the value of money as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u54	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The band of Bergþór's Ólason talks on the bill for a song that is here on the topic of growth and insurance or a change in the housing of the index price. There was a number of interesting developments in this talk. A senator, especially that part of his talk. A senator spoke of the impact of insurance on the region and the cold areas. Hv. A senator spoke in some way. The development of real estate prices in the capital area, which has driven the increases that have been responsible for the increase in index price of the past loss. Since then, the crown's concentration has held back, these two factors have, in fact, addressed the evolution of the index as a standard and the fact that this has been measured in this way for almost four years. Hv. A senator spoke in opposition to what. paritaprevir It's Ólafur Ís Ísleifsson about the insurance policy. That's what I was going to ask about last year's answer. It is recognized that insurance is the key to the economy and fortification in itself, as insurance works because large amounts of loan agreements to buy housing are in that form. It can be reasoned that it promotes increased debt, such as the financial system on equally pay loans. It gets in the way of money policy, where it does not bite as much, it has been observed, thus disrupting the conduct of steering growth. Well, my question is, really, about what it is. A senator's insurance policy: What does he find in this material? The case we're discussing here, if we were to take this arrangement for a thorough review - of these loans - we wouldn't have to discuss this standard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u55	A respectable president. Yes, this discussion here today would be much simpler if the insurance wasn't there. Then no doubt we would be discussing some other ethnic situation at the moment. I have no objection to the fact that certain parties can bind themselves in securities of agreements. Governments, rural communities, specific types of larger companies, say to form tenants, larger real estate unions, whatever their ultimate purpose is, which is a transnational contract. As a risk reduction, I would have no problem with such persons having their financing with the securities that would, if all were normal, at all other real-prons than we have to watch today. It would give them back, for example. in the case of the tenants, there is room for a significant decrease in rent. Of course, growing expenses are, I'd think so without my considering it, the biggest cost, the cost of financing is the biggest cost of these partners. Again, it's all about getting interest down. To answer that. A senator would feel likely to think that he was looking at my position on the merit of individual loans. Then I think we need to look for all possible ways to get out of the present system of things. It's going through the market, of course. We need to get the physical growth down. Of course, it will be as close as it is to an unconvinced environment as it would be to a securities. But it is so debilitating how this works now, and in reality it has a negative or debilitating effect on how money policy works properly. My position is that we must find a way out of this system.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u56	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator answers, and I understand him as wanting to change the arrangement. I agree with what. A senator and I have sometimes said that we have to get out of this discussion to ban something, we should change the arrangement when individuals borrow real estate. The big part of these insured loans is when individuals deal with loan agencies. Most of them do not have the knowledge and experience needed to deal with loan agencies in such agreements. However, it is not surprising that insured contracts are home. I think it would be wise to make a good impression when the state is making out a bond that would be in part worthy of a letter and that large investors in a market make such agreements between them. This would strengthen the money and the economy. But we should not have this arrangement when it comes to individuals and investments, and we should change this arrangement. But to the index. Let us assume that we are stuck here with this discussion about insurance and the changes. Now the index is just a measure of any size, and the index number can really be calculated at anything. We could figure out an index of trust in the Generals and then regularly include in our discussion how that index is developing. This is a suggestion to remove the mortgage from the index. Most economists, at least those I have studied, would like to calculate the cost of housing in some way into an index. [[The president calls.]] I'd like a guess. It's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u57	President. I appreciate the question from what? Senator. I think one option would be to form a new index number where the price factor for housing would be taken out, the management factor would be inside. Without having made a special assessment of it, I think that with two options, it would be more important to take the mortgage out and let other people stay because the management parts of the home are likely to fluctuate in a very similar way to the other aspects of the index. I must reiterate that I have not examined this specifically but I think the error towards, let's call it the real world, would shrink with this. Of course, the rest of the housing team is taken out in the motion and thus the business share. Without considering it, I would feel that the business of real estate would swing in a way similar to that of the other factors of the index, that would fit for other parts of the index, but the real value part was out, the part to form, as we know, will cause the index to rise over the last few years while the gang changes have been working in the other direction. I think I have to answer the question this way, if you ask me two options. It would be best if it were an index, and it could, without any doubt, be formable, but I don't think that the clumping is going to be very significant, even though the overall housing factor is taken out because of the contribution of the housing factor, it will fluctuates in a similar manner to the rest of the index.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u58	A respectable president. This is a very interesting debate to participate in, and I share the interest shown here on how desirable it would be to get rid of this loan form, in fact, the overall price insurance that has violated our financial system for decades. But I think we often get past the root cause of the problem, which, in fact, is that insurance over the years has been our way of dealing with high interest levels, high interest costs in this country, much higher rates of interest than in neighboring countries. To try simple things: We eventually selected this way to borrow this interest rate, if it were, so to speak, through the loan time, to distribute the interest load somehow over the loan time, but to accept at the same time all the scary fish that it brings with it like the high credit rates over the course of the loans, this unforeseenity with a head chair that can take all the fluctuations away from the prices of the loans at any given time. It brings back our thoughts to one of the root causes of the problem, which is just an inflation in our prices, and often in our currency and coin environment, which is a very large part of our inflation over the years. We'll see about that. In recent decades, 40% of the price change in this country is directly attributable to currency. In fact, we benefit now when the dollar has been growing, and that is why domestic inflation without housing is very low, but more often than not. We've been taking on great successes, which have led to a huge rise in capital security loans and extreme inflation. This discussion is closely related to the discussion of whether we should go so far as to forbid formal insurance, forbids the possibility of insure loans. As little fan insurance as I am, I don't recommend this loan plan, I've also pointed out that our insecure interest is usually higher. We are offered in our most widely used loans, mortgages, to borrow them also indiscriminately, and through which the interest rates are higher than we are offered in financial loans at any time, taking into account local prices. Looks like it's still there. Pension funds today are offering the best quality of loans from 2.6 to 2.2 percent of secure interest rates, in fact, changing growth, while the ideals of unsurpassed loans are somewhere from 5.6 to 6%. It is quite more stressful than the current inflation rate of about 2% today. It just seems like it's always been like this. In fact, creditors may feel that they are more valuable in securities than in securities and are willing to take more risk or dive below. However, I feel that this is still reflected, and I can kind of reinvigorate a talk from earlier times, that sometimes pays to attack the root of the problem that is the instability of the currency we have and the cost of the money policy we're working for. I have personally been a spokesman for a very long time that we were much better paid by picking up others and bigger coins. I do not build it in some blind admiration for the European Union, which is often referred to in this context. Rather, I simply look at the cold reality that such a small coin area, such as a dollar, will never be constant, no matter what money policy will be used. Our crown must always be like a bat in the ocean to cope with the fluctuations in our environment. Worse yet, the effects of these gang swings will always be far greater than those of our neighboring countries because we are much better equipped for import or influence on the imported prices than the economic systems we compare with. That's what I think of the main reason for a bigger coin field. It is simply because our business within the same coin field becomes greater than that of the crown. The same can be done, e.g. say of the Norwegians, or of the Swedish. Norway is a grossly higher economy than ours, Sweden about thirty-fold greater economy. It simply has much more production at home, a much less impact on currency favors, although it is true that all currency is fluctuated. It is these effects into the prices at home that matter most. I always look at the same thing: The root of the problem is a unstable gang environment and a high interest level. To some extent, the high interest rate is a direct result of the former. We're trying to control our currency, try to secure it, and it seems to be the UN Bank's assessment at least, that there has to be a sustained high interest level, plus/minus 3% actual growth difference with our neighbors, to keep the currency fairly stable, and yet has not been particularly stable in that environment. I call for a discussion at the council on this review of money policy. I'm open to all ideas. This is all too costly for both employment and home to have such costly coins. If we can find a better way with an Icelandic crown, I'm ready to listen to reasons for it. However, we have not yet found that way. I also call for people to approach it with an open mind that we may need to find solutions other than the crown if we really want to reach the cost of the households. That must be the common objective of all of us. I mentioned earlier that the domestic debt of the economy is about 6 of you. One billion. As a result, each percent of us costs about 60 billion each year. Three percent interest rates cost us 180 billion a year, and it is at least that, if not higher, when we compare ourselves with, for example. The loans offered in the unscrupulous mortgages of our neighboring countries against unsecured loans here. But if we go back to the subject of the proposal presented here. When it comes to insurance long term commitment, which would be better to have the index price with or without housing? My personal opinion is that both of them are equally bad. Both are insured. In that environment, I'd like to get out. I wondered, " Is this suggestion worth considering how this would affect the market? ' In the end, we always have the same comparison. We have an unconvinced terms and a guarantee of a price that lenders are likely to compare constantly, this growing difference that remains between. If we change the basis for calculating prices so that the effect of inflation would on average be less than it is today, would that not affect the price-secure rate? At least I'd fear that it would be exactly what would happen. If we were to pull out half of the joints used to calculate the index price of consumer prices at a time - often good to take a different extreme - I don't think there's any doubt that the borrowers would just adapt to that. The housing team is about a quarter or a fifth if I recall the index. I'm afraid this might have a real impact. Second, we also look to another proposal available to the council today to support more than a uniform index price, which has not the real value of property itself but the cost of housing alone. Then you might ask yourself, " Is that a natural approach? ' At any given time, the cost of living may somehow reflect our living expenses; instead, we would be trying to attach ourselves to the standard prices and also measure inflation at any time, not just an increase in real estate prices. If we look at the comparison of these two, I am interested in seeing that the index value of free housing has increased approximately 16% less than the index price of housing. That's a real difference. It doesn't have to be taken out of the way. It is 30 years that are probably considered to be some kind of average mortgage life span. It is clear, then, that a person who had taken 30 years of loans with this background, totally unchanged, would have paid 16% less at the end of the day. It is interesting, however, that there is, in effect, a much greater difference, in the uniform index than this. I have to say, it really surprised me that the difference wasn't any more than this 16% over this long period of time. Of course, we know that real estate prices are swinging, there's a long period of time where real estate prices move little or nothing, even to the least, the real value. I wondered, " Has the comparison of the two? ' It seems to me that at this time, one of our housing costs may have dropped considerably, in effect, in the face of the rise in real estate. In this context, it might be very interesting to think about it. One factor is quick to mention: The lesson comes into the calculation of these indexes. They have fallen, real - life growth has fallen dramatically during this period, and they have no doubt had a small effect there. But if I recall correctly, when I considered a suggestion as a cause. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson is a messenger who is already in charge of the council, to use a uniform index instead of an index price, the difference between these two indexes was similar, i.e. About 151⁄20%, in a much shorter time, probably only ten, fifteen years, which I think I examined in that comparison. I think this might be interesting from consumer interests when we compare these two different indicators. However, I fear, as I mentioned earlier, that this would eventually appear in a higher interest level than if we began to experiment with the index. There the dog lies buried, so to speak. We have a financial policy with a marked difference in interest compared to our neighboring countries, 3% real value in the past few years and decades, in fact. We have too little competition for capital markets, of course. Although biofuel funds have been increasing their loans in a direct way to real estate, it seems to me that in general the competition of the financial market is too small and we are hearing complaints about the effects of the Influx oceans now that it is simply blocked into the market, that it neglects foreign funds because of the fact that pensions are going out and much less than before the commercial market, e.g. and rural markets. The interest rate at these loans is rising at the same time as the Governing Body is reducing interest rate. This, of course, is a matter of concern. And why do we have little competition for capital markets? We have never been able to get foreign parties to work here on this market, only to the point of borrowing our largest and strongest companies by earning money in foreign currency. It's the only parties that foreign capitalists, foreign banks have really wanted to touch. The explanation you hear about their apathy is the coin, they simply feel that the market is too small, the coin too swinging, so they want to put themselves in our economy. It's just too costly for banks to use as a risk prevention factor, based on the expertise they have to invest in and so forth, to attend a market that ultimately amounts to a relatively small city in most of these countries. This, of course, is the problem. That problem still comes, and again it seems very clear to me now that we've been in the last few years of our active sales with two banks, we can't forget it. There have been repeated attempts to sell Iceland banks on Glitnis or Glitnis, resulting in failure to deliver the bank because it was unable to sell it. Today, we have a recent example of the efforts of the dissension board or the purchase to sell shares in Arion banks, whether to domestic or foreign parties. It didn't work, or it could be said, that nothing had gone anywhere, only to the bank's current shareholders, or buya council, which is then debated how desirable it is to be as long-term investments in our banking system or not. I don't think we should forget in this discussion, as bad as the insurance policy is, that we have to attack the root cause of the problem of high interest level, unstable coin, and unstable pricing that we have and the resulting in inflation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u59	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for his mouth. I know very well that he would like to see here a coin other than we do, but in that respect we do not agree, even though we may agree on other matters. But I'd like to know what he does for homes, the general apartment loans. Then I'm not talking about the corporate market, not the state. What does he see? Does he want to have a stable insurance system, or do he sees the option to place any restrictions on the insurance? What, then, would they be?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u60	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I readily admit that I have seen very much the root of the problem and how we deal with it, whether by reviewing money policy out of the crowns, as in the currency route to which we built, or simply by the pure and complete recording of foreign currency, which I believe, in fact, is the best option in such matters. I can't rule out any way that the insurance can be fixed by some of these transfers. I've often wondered if we should pull out these joints, at least the real value. I also felt that it was not unusual to go out in comparison with the government taxation at any given time. I think it's unnatural that decisions about the tax system will affect the debt of prices. I don't think it's a good idea to limit homes' authority to incursible debt. I think we have to let people have the freedom to decide for themselves whether they're going to take security or inaccessible loans or a combination of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u61	A respectable president. I have a hunch. A senator must have misunderstood my question a little. I was thinking more about limitations from the creditor's end. Not an option allowed to borrow insured or inaccessible but to frame the loans in some way. Here earlier today, it was in some context called cash policy insurance without self-respecting to the lender, wearing a belt and bracelet, taste, and all the security measures possible, but the borrower would be out in the wind if something unexpected happened. Have such factors come to mind. A senator or his investigation?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u62	Madam President. I'm sorry. Clearly, I merely misunderstood the question. From the borrower's side, of course, you might wonder if there should be some kind of roof if in the event of inflation, as we know it, some kind of limit to whether it can go completely into the insurance. To be honest, I'm not that I don't have the advantage of consumers. In fact, when we went through the collapse, I counted that there had been a full reason for such intervention then and would actually have been a chance to know that if the financial system had remained in place, as if it had actually been established by the emergency law. That the home could have been rebuilt faster and more quickly than the case. But in general, away from such things--if we can say natural disasters like that, I think our experience in trying to put some kind of roof on a peak or something like that has never given us anything particularly good. In the end, although the market is imperfect, market forces are still on the ground.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u63	Madam President. I thank the speaker for his excellent input. Of course, it's very useful that a man with his background, even when dealing with a labour market and with the responsibilities of the pension fund add up here a word. He describes his concern that if the staff of his house are eliminated from the index, the so - called indiscriminate interest will simply grow higher. In view of the limitations of insurance insurance - I don't like to use that word, we can just say that in view of the fact that banks profit from inflation because they have more prices than they owe, and in view of the fact that the competition between them is said to be incomplete, as it were. A speaker has mentioned himself here, is he surprised at this, or would he be surprised to learn that cheating interest would increase in the few society we live in in these waters?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u64	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. What I meant and maybe I wasn't clear enough, it was that, in fact, it wasn't the cheating interest that I was worrying about, but just that the level of insured interest itself would rise. For the simplicity, if we re-evaluate the value for insurance so that it would normally be 0.5% lower, let's say that, but in general, the inflation is that we could see it only 0.5% of the permissible terms replaced. Of course, this is just one of the things we don't know about until we're under test. Maybe it's completely unmistakably worried about me. We'll see it exactly, like I hear a word out of it. A senator would agree with me, that in the end there would be a competition for capital markets to be greater and more people would need to be with him than it really is. Of course, we're dealing with this in most markets at home, especially with the big ones. That is why I always fear that the lack would arise in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u65	Madam President. Thanks for the answer. Of course, this could be discussed for a long time. If we consider the growth of securable commitments, there is no market where we can compare ourselves. We can compare the growth of disloyal loans. There's just something that you can compare to that in our neighboring countries and in the whole world. But as far as insurance is concerned, there is no comparison. It has to be said, as it is, that these so - called prices grow doesn't have a particularly strong sign that they're marketed to any degree, but they're born in this community of low-levels and inflexibles, if I may say so. I suppose there's not much difference between me and that. A senator, for example, assumes that business laws and bans are undeniably desirable. But there is a possibility. A senator would be required to make arrangements that would limit the degree of insured interest?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u66	Madam President. We agree, me and what. A senator, for example, that commands and bans are rarely of the good. Sadly, even when the lawgiver tries to intervene in a market with some type of prohibition, it often has a very undesirable side effect. We know that, and we know it. A senator knows even better than I know the history of some kind of peak interest and what environment it created, on the other hand, in the negative realities of a depositer for years, a serious lack of capitalism, and the privileged or gangry that arose around the reach of access to capital resources. It would be a natural dream if the inflation could be climaxed, which is the root cause of all of this. But that is where our unstable economic environment is once again the root cause of the problem. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u67	A respectable president. I always listen attentively when it comes to it. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, the son of Wazowski, will address economic issues and show deep respect for his knowledge of that class. We agree, I think, about one thing, me and what. A senator, i.e. That the money policy like she's fired in Iceland today is a piece of work. The question may be, " How can I change it? ' A senator is more liberal than I am in that he is willing to pick up another coin, to which I am reluctant. That's why I want to ask him why. A member of Parliament: What changes does he most need to make in order to change the money policy as it is now driven by the use of the coin? What does he think is essential for this? I completely agree with the senator that high interest rates make Iceland less competitive. Young people do not sit here because they are condemned to pay three to four times as much interest in mortgage loans compared to neighboring countries. It's annoying.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u68	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists his tender words. There's nothing new under the sun. We've actually tried most editions. On one occasion, we had a Danish crown, which was, in fact, working fine. Perhaps the biggest mistake of independence was not just holding it, but taking on an independent coin. For example, despite the inflexibility involved, students are doing quite well with a Danish crown. But our conclusion was in the end of the decade in currency, where we went through very regular gangfalls within them when we were finished with our currency, in simple language. Since then, we've tried some sort of fixation policy that exploded. Then we tried a clean inflation target that went off, too. And the late bank is now actually trying to implement what he has called an inflation goal plus or plus, plus, plus, or what tools he prefers to add, which is actually some kind of restoration to the environment, though limited. That is why we have a problem. I think we've tried most of the versions of independent coin available.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u69	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. As I noted in a recent talk, the divorce rates of the Federal Bank have been common at any given time. to lay the foundation when you take control scales, be far away from anything for four years or so, quite remote. Then you say: Could it be that the secret of this subsidiary plan of the World Bank is at the root of the fact that human growth has not been crushed down here faster than it does? Another question. Some time ago, I met together in quick inflation in Iceland and Britain. The difference was not so much between the countries that when the collapse occurred, the immediate crisis of 2008-2009 took place. But in the United Kingdom, if I recall correctly, the British bank's operating fruit had been unchanged in 2006, even further, to 0.25%. So you must ask, because the inflation and the pound have been stable, even though it may not be as much funy as a dollar: What justifys this tremendous flow of control?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u70	Madam President. If you could always peer into the imagination of the Secret Bank, I could probably answer that again. I agree, I believe the interest differences have been and are too great, as I mentioned earlier, about the fact that we've tried most of the exports. I'm not going to rule out that we could still turn to something better with a dollar than we have now. Such a policy would have to be based on a level of espionage as an exit point, whether it was a mere policy or some sort of export on it, which means that the Shared Bank controller would need to be different from the interest. If the economy needs to be controlled or edified, the resources would be determined by what is needed to ensure orderability at any time. Away from that, it would have to be done by other means, and in fact, I plan on a business discussion of money management over the past year that the creditors are generally looking more closely to what has been called the macrostruction scale. [[The president calls.]] Other such factors are simply trying to directly intervene in the supply or demand pressure of the economy at any given time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u71	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The village Þorsteinn of Víglundsson for this speech. That was a good speech. When he's in charge of money, my ears are like others. My question to the senator is about the growth. It's a similar question that I asked him why. paritaprevir Sæmundsson, this morning, about the interest level: Since the Séðlaban controls regulation, isn't this high interest level largely due to the interest requirements of pensions? What does the senator see in this regard? That's when I remember an article that happened. A senator wrote in the fall that we should leave our pensions alone. Doesn't the senator have an advantage in giving the pension money money a chance to invest more abroad, and on more interest than they get in Iceland in their crops?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u72	Madam President. Thank you. It's an answer from a senator. I am a great spokesman for the increase in foreign investments and increase them substantially. In fact, I think it's a very dangerous thing to do, and it's just undesirable to have a buildinging system of money that's 70-80% in domestic property. I don't think in nature there's any difference between investing the pension fund of an enterprise in the enterprise itself. It's the eggs in the same basket, and it's nice to look at the Norwegian oil reserve, which is just splattered out of the economy. We've put our pensions up there covered with foreign property. I've been talking about how we're putting the pension funds on foreign property rather floors because I don't see any risk to the system of foreign investments. This adds to their risk distribution. I see a risk, however, that there is too much in this country. I think I'd have to come to some of this on the interest of the pension policy itself in a later answer, but I'd be glad if they had a chance to make further foreign investments and that we would use that opportunity and relax on the influx seas so much complained about here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u73	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Perhaps he will answer better, as he mentioned. That's when I come to loans with fixed interest and securities on loans. That's what I thought I heard in my talk next to you. A senator, and others, have talked about the fact that here, whether it is offered a loan with solid interest. Is it not, then, that the bank borrows it, so the borrower is actually led out to take rather evasive loans because the payments are lower, but the terms are slacker in the long run? If credit rates were taken out, it would not necessarily mean higher interest rates on fixed interest loans.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u74	Madam President. When these big questions come up, it's hard to finish them in a minute, but I'm gonna try. First about the interest rates, I would simply like to see a wider flea in the bid. Why can I not accept back loans with variable interest but, rather, just with interest to three years? That's a very correct conclusion. A senator that there's a much higher amount of money in a dot that I'll offer them in variable terms. I'd love to take my chances on both sides. I thought the pensions came for like that. Be more cruel in this competition. Yet, they feel pity in that way so that they have been rather ashamed to take too much attention to themselves in a house market and the other one recently. I just think it's normal, it's nice to have this competition. The benefits of consumers. I have examined some of the evidence as to whether the crops of the pension fund, the 3.5% of the physical crop, are some sort of a growth floor. I don't see any sign of that in our neighboring countries. We have a number of pension funds that support this current requirement, which still includes interest levels much lower than those of the fund itself under the modern - day requirements, i.e. 3.5% of long - term physical growth, and that is, of course, a well - known context. [[The president calls.]] The lower interest level means that a otherwise significantly higher product yields, and it somehow reaches into the overall growth of the panorama.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u75	Madam President. I thank you for the important issues and the discussions we've discussed. It's a case the Central Party is moving, and it's stressed. This is an important interest in the public. I have to say from this speaker that I am a little surprised that the government groups have not been more organized in the discussion. We have not been allowed to hear their policy in these matters. True, the Prosecutors and Independence Party have responded, but we have not been allowed to hear their policy, either from a category of prime minister or from the United States, which has appeared to be somewhat related to the labor movement. This is a big interest issue for the entire country, and I would have liked to see more groups participate in this discussion about the staff of the index price and affect the loans of every country. I'd like to quote the 2011 F.S. Department of Economic and Business Committees. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ The World Economic and Business Commission agrees to begin with the Committee to implement a cross-political plan to reduce the value of prices in the Icelandic financial market. It was one seven years ago, but nothing has changed. We still have high interest levels and insurance. The fact that nothing has been done in these areas is amazing. They are spoken and promised in elections and so forth, but nothing happens. It is time for the political parties to get their hands on this big business of great interest. This has been the subject of growth. They're tall, and we all know them. They are important to all of us, and they are involved in many modern - day history and influence countless factors. There are ways of lowering interest here. The media emphasized it before the last election. These include the Pension Fund. The high level of law - abiding fruitage that rests on them has a natural effect on the interest level. That is why it is important that the pension funds raise their money abroad. Of course, the government should contribute to this, for when the pension funds have such a large proportion of their property within the country and its fruits here, it lifts the natural interest level. That's very obvious. Hv. paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Izzma gave an excellent talk earlier today. He mentioned Denmark in these matters. There's a much lower interest level there. I want that relationship to include Sweden. The rate of growth is similar to that, with a two - percent increase in housing. Let us see that Sweden now has the Swedish crown, so I don't see why we can't go this way and lower the interest level. Another factor in this regard is that if people want to pay back their loans and try to get better terms, they are put a stone into their streets. I'd like to mention an apartment loan fund and a so - called payment fee, an unfair fee in my opinion, making people basically in bondage. They can't really make their loans. There are a lot of people with these loans. True, the Substitution Fund has stopped paying loans with a payment bill today, but there are a lot of older loans that want to change them, but it's hard to deal with them because the payment is so high. A little closer to the housing team. The price of housing has generally increased more than the price of other products and services. Therefore, the index of consumer prices has increased on average more than the index price without housing. If we look back five years from 2016, the average consumer prices were inflation of 3% and 2.2% without the housing team. There's almost 1% difference. This was illustrated in a fine talk. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, Simon's son, said that about 1% of the interest differences meant about 60 billion. This is an enormous amount of money that is of great importance to the public and to the public's payment on the mortgage. I want to say here that the money bank of Europe and England Bank aims at a price level which does not contain the cost of living in their own housing. I'd also like to mention it, because I listened attentively to a talk. paritaprevir Mr. Þorsteinn, son of Víglundsson, that I wholeheartedly agree with the senator that it is very important to get here a competition in the financial sector, to get foreign banks into the country. We've stressed it in the Central Party and made it before elections. We would like to contribute to the arrival of a foreign bank and to function in the country in order to increase competition. This could lead to lower interest and will lead to lower interest. But, hey. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson said that he thought it was fully tried to get a foreign bank, that they wouldn't be interested in it because we had the crown. I don't agree with what. A senator on this matter. I'd like to mention in that subject, for example. In the United States, there is a bank called City Bank. He has branches in 160 lands, such as Ukraine, Congo, Tanzania, and Pakistan. So I name Ukraine, for example, the currency there is extremely unstable and has fallen enormously unstable. The same could be said of the Kongo currency, so I don't think the Senator's right, at least. I don't think it's quite enough for a foreign bank to come in here. But this too is much of a public interest, and the government should help to gain a foreign bank into our financial market. We know it only when it comes to the services that are enormously high here among banks. It is amazing what the banks may allow themselves to charge a high amount of services on the public. Finally, I'd like to mention that Iceland's Secret Bank feels that there is no basis for changing the reference number of inflation targets, choosing the government to do so. It's exactly the same as I said; it's a political decision and it can be taken here in this room.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u76	Madam President. This has been a fine discussion, although not yet prepared, and of much of the benefit of my mind. The main point of this case is my sentence: Price insurance on individual loans is simply unannounced. This is shown to be because the laws that have been made to protect consumers have proved to be modest or up to the limit when they have been tested in court. Such is the power of the capital forces here that nothing can happen to them. This arrangement must be replaced. It has to go away. Hv. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's children told him that I had taken steps in Denmark. I'm glad he mentioned Sweden. We could mention more lands around us. I don't know what stops us from setting up these specialized apartment loans or clinics, as usual in Denmark, based on expertise in this field. We have members of apartment loans who are taking the main policy in other types of business and business. But in Denmark, there are specialized institutions, special firms that have these issues particularly with the result that a man in Copenhagen is going to borrow an apartment in Copenhagen, as we would like to say here in the beautiful country, gets this loan when I last heard of 1.9% in interest. There is no insurance or anything like that. This man knows what he's supposed to pay every due, so there's no compromise. The case is completely set. I'm also going to say on this basis that the requirement is very simply this: that Iceland will be part of this financial group of Western countries, that we are not here with a home-made system that developed up to the financial emergency when all other countries were in our society and the economic and professional order but now, by the end of the '70s of the century. It's been 40 years since, I think I can say. Iceland is naturally different from what it was 40 years ago. Yet, it is so, Madam President, that when these issues are discussed, they are always spoken by those who are most eager to defend these insurance prices, as is the case in 1979. What should a person do? The money's flying up, it's burning, it's nothing, everything's in danger. It's like there are no investment options here. It's like there's no financial business here. It's like here, nothing happened. I'm also going to say that we can't develop it when we discuss these matters at the Hall to be in contracts as to whether the index is meant to be like this or gay or whether this is supposed to be the way it should be or should be changed or taken into account. We need to get rid of this system. [[Up front.]] This system is unacceptable. It is not acceptable to the public, it is not acceptable to Icelandic families, and it is not acceptable to be led by a course leading to this, as in the collapse, that in the name of financial status one family after another could disappear from their homes. [[Up front.]] Icelandic parents guide their children to their side because their country is otherwise without financial stability. Never repeat yourself, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u77	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you very much for the discussion that has been conducted today. It has been very illuminating, and it has shown that in fact, there are many in the door agree with the princely burden we are adding on this bill, i.e. the need to change the game rules to the loan market. That may be the main point. And even if it was only for that, the forwarding of the bill is worth the discussion, getting the will here. She's also worth it because she's revealed who's not involved in the discussion, and I miss that the members of the United States, representatives of the Left Green, the Porta representatives, have not been here in the room, except for one nice shot. Senator of the Group now seated. The question, though, is, Why do the representatives of these classes not speak? Do they not have a policy in the case of 120 thousand homes in Iceland? Do they not dare to reap it? I can't answer that question. It must be done by man himself. It is also of interest that the participation of the advance and independence classes in the discussion consists of some objections, which are a fine price. But where is the policy of these classes? It has been claimed that the council agrees. The panel members of the Convention to adopt a uniform index number are somehow comparable to this. With great respect, that council concluded that there will be a way to determine if a uniform index is to be adopted. Then we make a suggestion, with great respect to her, unnecessary by presenting this bill. We don't think there's anything to wait for us. In my first speech today, I said: The last 12 months have cost Iceland's borrowed homes 50 billion dollars. That's between 400 and 500 of you. K. to every one of these families in the country, these homes. What, then, should we wait for? There's nothing to wait for. However, it is very interesting, I think, and it stands out from this discussion and has been shown here, that in Iceland interest levels are all too high. There have been voices here in the house, in this hall, that say: We can lower the interest level in Iceland even if we're not recording another currency. For what? Yes, it is possible, first of all, to make good economic management, and it is possible to do so by changing money policy. It has been described on the basis of the Bank of Nations for several times that there may be a need to change the law. I'm just saying, as the song of Hallgrímur, the son of Pétursson, by permission of the president, "Come on, then, you will." If the late bank is merely to present the legal adjustments or suggestions to those to whom it feels that they need to change their money policy if this results in a decrease in interest of growth. It shall not stand upon them that stand here, and I know that they shall not stand upon any of them whom he is near to grant the wish of the Council Bank in that matter. Not at all. We were ready yesterday. There is also another in this regard for the benefits of those who buy housing in Iceland, how they are incompatible and not competitive with our neighboring countries. This was shown in a fine speech today, probably by reason of reason. Ísleifsson That some 30,000 people in the foreign lands are unable to come here, including the possibility of coming home. Because it's impossible for people to go to a housing market because they don't take what I described this morning, pay off their loan four times, and then retire. People simply fail to take the offer and are not invited to buy housing, especially in this area, at high prices as a result of having accommodations in another apartment. There is a lack of man - made weights that press up prices for housing. People simply do not take the offer of buying houses under those circumstances, with real fruits of 6% or 7% when men can walk up to 2% and less in neighboring lands. That is something that can be imagined. And talk about it, I'll take an example of Denmark because I know pretty well about it. There, interest in housing may be 2◯2.5% unconvinced, they are not special. They offer hospitality to those who pay little in their homes. But they can also work out what they have to pay for the next 20 years. Do you think there is no inflation in Denmark? Food increases in Denmark, just like elsewhere, and having been an annual guest in Denmark several times a year for 14, 15 years, you know that the index price for consumers goes up, but the interest on loans at apartment prices is still 2%. Like I came in against what. paritaprevir Þorsteinn Víglundsson, I made an unscrupulous study of Iceland's Peace Bank's direct growth compared to the U.S. Bank's direct growth over a 20 - year period in which the inflation rate in Britain was often between 2% and 5% after years. For us, it was 2.5% up to 3◯4%, except for the natural years 2008◯2009, when we were suffering from the collapse, and we had a crisis, whereas in other respects in Iceland inflation was no more than in Britain. Britain's sabbatical has a 0.5% stimulus, and I understand that Britain's bank manager is also among the groups that Iceland's bank manager claims to have a prayer and is jealous of its peaks in Iceland. He's got to have his knees in. These interest rates have remained unchanged in Britain since 2006, if I recall correctly, if not anymore. Of course it's working together. But what can we do? Yes, we can take steps to try to correct this difference. We can take steps to cut through the armor of financial companies. We do this by changing this unjust index base by taking the mortgage out of this index. The house - to - house staff that has increased over the index price of consumers at least five years, anyway, and is inconsistencies with the index price of consumers since 2003, for 15 years. And ghouls, the gooeys dilate. It expands every year. Anybody willing to invest in Iceland under such circumstances. But this poses the danger. It means that we are not getting used to it, if we can say so, to our best workers, to people who are well educated. It can't sit here because of this, except that we're in, as I said before, 120 thousand homes full of each day, hanging on their homes and paying from them a lot more than they would need if things were natural here. Like I said, 4,400,500 you're. K. in a home just for the last 12 months. The risk has been identified because there is a potential for growth increase, i.e. name interest, or interest factor, if we change the index base. I say, " Men must give them the courage to do so. ' We've seen eastern fields filled with less occasion. Perhaps the public will finally rise up because of this yoke by taking courage, knowing that there are men in this room, at least in some categories, who think of these people, who really want to do something to fix this situation. Those who do not work to do so will have to answer to themselves and explain to them 120,000 homes in Iceland why they won't take it along with the rest of us, if they don't want to. But I want to believe that, as I said this morning, all intelligent men will welcome this matter. That's why I don't doubt it. But it may well be that in the case of the committee it will be better structured, so I rejoice if there is a more clear explanation in human speech. Fine. It's just gonna be better. We just have to get this out of the way. As it is now, and has been, it is intolerable. It is true, however, that this has also been the case with several members of the council, and it made me very happy that there is a need for the uplifting of the financial system. This was very evident in the speech of my name, the son of Víglundsson, who. Senator. And I say to him, "Welcome to the party." Middle-class members have a very clear policy in these matters, which can be seen both on the social and international websites, how we plan to reorganize the financial system so that there will be more competition in the bank market. Our policy is very clear. The suggestions are very clear. They are basically set down in detail, so people do not have to grapple with how to do this. This is fully effective. Will is all it takes, so I'll witness in poet again. I am now optimistic about the end of this discussion, but I was in the past in spite of the voices of the political parties that teach themselves to the common people and toil love, I still rejoice over this discussion. I want my old partner to be my second-class assistant, the forward group. I encourage them to handle the case because it is in itself closely related to the viewpoints held by that class. And now it's a test for what they said when they say that they wanted to take the index out of the housing bar. I'd celebrate that tremendously. To be honest, I expect the good men will be able to assist this matter. In the final analysis, I believe that at the International Assembly of Iceland, it is more important to change the wrongs of loans by altering justice. I hope the case may be, as I said before, the first step on a 1,000-mile trip. I hope this is the first step toward breaking the armor of financial companies. There are weapons, they only need to be used. We need them to be used. - I'm glad you're representing the United States and would be delighted to hear her thoughts on the matter, which is about 120,000 homes in the country. But there's still a chance. I think they were very anxious to hear the position of this company, the U.S. style of America, at one time called, to this case because it's equal. Madam President. I thank you again for this discussion. It has been good and meaningful, and it has been perplexing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u78	V.E.G. President. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's work on this subject has been quite interesting and elegant. Here are growing, borrowing, insurance, prices, the share of the crown, and what may be most shifting from this case, indexing numbers, the residence at the index price. I come up here, a respectable president, because of what I'm doing. An executive, the first official of the case here last in a speech, the Þorstein Sæmundsson, mentioned a case related to this and is proposed for the interpretation of a uniform index price. Clearly, then, these groups agree on this matter. I wanted to come here and make sure that it's also in the government contract. So there are quite a lot of people who want to look into this. If there's something, the discussion today, and I agree with everyone here that has spoken about her being very good, it's shown that we have to do this professionally. In the Senate resolution proposal as it is. A senator suggests that the impact of the change in index as calculated by remuneration, remuneration, remuneration rate, and how to make decisions for interest, i.e. U.S. Department of Money Policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u79	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson very much for this answer. I interpret that he's a sponsor for the case and his party partners too. I'm glad, and I'm glad to hear it. I really hope that they will continue to demonstrate this to the attention of the matter, both on committees and on council hearings on the matter. For everyone's benefit, steps are professional. But the thing is, as I said before, that there is nothing to wait on this step. This point has been discussed. The insurance loan has been over head in Polish, Iceland, for five, six years. It took so long in time that in 2013 the government covenant, in the year 2013, decommissioned insurance on consumer loans. It just wanted the dance group to get on top of us who were then members of the other board, and this case could not be achieved any further. However, it was included in a government contract that means that this case has been discussed, as I say, since 2013 or earlier, and there has been some agreement that something had to be done in this since 2013 or earlier. I say again, why wait longer? Why not take the first step? This step takes place moderately, revealing what changes could take place if the insurance would be taken away completely. This will bring a slight adjustment to financial companies so that I don't have a problem doing this right here and now and I'd be happy if the candidates came along. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u80	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. You and I are here on this expedition, that's obvious. We have presented the matter, and as I learned earlier, we are at the groundwork. When we talk about the professional effects of the change and the index, it is just as important, because we are comparing ourselves to other countries, the nations we are in business with, to explore a measurement of our major business countries. When we use standards in any area, they are usually measured in agreement between the individuals we compare with and, in time, always using the same criteria. Therefore, when we decide which aspect of the index number to take out, we must be careful not to take all the housing teams out, as is suggested here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u81	Madam President. We have an excellent agency that measures the prices in Iceland according to any six or seven indicator counts each month, as has been shown in this conference, Iceland's Habitat. Of course, it will continue to measure the prices in Iceland according to consumer prices only, etc. It continues to measure these six, seven indicators each month, and monitor how evolution is developing at any given time, but we need to take action. That doesn't make Iceland's Hausts, with great respect for them and their jobs, because it's not their job. It is our job to do so. It's just that in politics people have to make decisions, preferably fast. Therefore, we need to respond now. There's nothing to wait for.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u82	V.E.G. President. I wanted to come up here to thank you for the discussion that has developed since that bill. paritaprevir It's Captain Sæmundsson's hideout. For me, a question arises: Isn't this a part of the answer to why the people are not at odds and angry, and thus the honour of the Council is not to be met? That the system really is a bit set up to a better country in the country. The wealth of money is on high level, and society is run on an excellent footprint. But there are people in the country, camp owners, landlords, and families, who pay the bill, the biggest part. It's been shown in talks today. Hv. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason pointed to the regions and cold regions. Hv. paritaprevir Ísleifsson Isafassson pointed out what this money policy system had become deep and solid. Then the question arises: Is it not part of the national or national agreement and the lack of confidence in the fact that they lack the courage to change the system to be fair with our smallest brothers and sisters in the community? This may be a bit of a big question, but I'll throw it out here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u83	Madam President. I heard a nice interview, if not just a great interview, with the former president of the United States, Barack Obama, the other day. After he was finished being president, some men approached him and said, "Hey, we need to get you an interview on a matter, just the first. He said, "How about tomorrow?" They said to him, "We were thinking more about it in a week. " He said: "In the environment I'm coming out of right now, I have to make a decision in half an hour, or someone will die. It's not so serious here that someone's dying because we're not making the decision. On the other hand, that is exactly what happened. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson points out, there is a lot of riot in society after someone speaks the case of borrowers, someone speaking a case to the lenders. This game is a terrible match. It's like sending your home to the boxing ring with one hand tied behind your back. It's just that way. There is no equal in these contracts, and there may be an equality we are looking for by changing the rules of the event in favor of the borrowers. It is facing all those who see the survival of banks in Iceland and who have watched it over the last nine years, and who are very careful about the fact that Iceland's banks and financial institutions are not on their own. Iceland's Pension Fund lost 480 billion in the collapse. They've got it all back and better. Who's paying? It's those who borrow from these funds. It is long time for us to correct this model so that people can make their home in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u84	V.E.G. President. That's exactly what I'm talking about. They need courage and courage and, of course, sense as well. I thought of a piece of Megas's song, which says, "The scale is going out on the horizon. Often, when I hear this financial discussion and all the possible ways that could be done to straighten the country's finances, I go outside the horizon, I just waste out because people like me and others, we need to get this food paid in human language. You often suspect that when you hear this discussion, you begin to speak some sort of scientific thing, which may be just 5 or 10% of the nation, in order to kill the matter over because the same person has no courage to handle the situation. The discussion of Arion's bank ensued. paritaprevir In his day, Davíð the Gunnlaugsson of Gunnuga, who had been a good prime minister, was well - handled. Do we not need such politicians to take the lead in the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u85	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. A senator earlier said that the system we live in today, this insurance insurance on loans, is beyond understanding of most of its victims, if I can put it that way, i.e. The ones who have this kind of loan. I don't know a easy way to explain to people who live at this loan rate how it works that if freezing is going to happen in South America, the coffee crop will fail and the coffee will rise in Iceland, the loan will be increased. I don't know how to explain it to people. I also don't know how to explain to people that when the Icelandic government rashly decides before Christmas to raise the alcohol charge and other fees by 22.2%, some calculated number that some men in town have found out, they all raise the loans in the country. I don't know how to explain it to people who are fighting for themselves in their daily affairs. That is exactly why we need to unwind this once and for all. This is the first step in that direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u86	Madam President. I want to thank you very much for this discussion. I think it's very useful and useful, and I think it's a case that needs to be discussed much more in the CIA. It's not always Christmas, and it's not always so calm that's in the world as it is right now. Let us use this fine opportunity to discuss this matter, and we will find that another time. I'd like to mention that there are more groups than the Central Party that are very important in this matter, such as the Party of the People. This is one of our big cases. But let us see that we are dealing with an army that is not taken. The financial powers are so strong that it is quite clear that some political parties - I now hear that a messenger is contemplating their position and their explanation of their absence. We know the natural nature of this phrase: The category emphasizes the value of insurance. That means the pack doesn't want to do anything. There are groups that say: Well, there must be other coins, of course. This means that there is a need to walk in the European Union, with all its activities and not to be taken care of until this arrangement is completed. For decades, something may be measured. This suggestion goes straight ahead and goes straight ahead. I will, in my second answer, describe a different method that I have chosen to use in this case, an application of General Ludendorffur's pick-up. I will use my time afterwards to do that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u87	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator highly countered, and I would like to first apologize to him for not giving that in my second speech in this discussion how the group of people have supported this bill, for they have done it by means of advice and admiration, and I am grateful and proud of it. Certainly their participation in this matter will differ. In fact, there is something else that fills me with a little optimism now. It is that this and these matters are usually properly planned here at the council because, as a matter of course, they are usually on schedule. A senator said that men often got away with such an inexpensive phrase, some June 17th phrase, but we do not need it now. I said that, and I've said that several times now in this discussion: this matter has been discussed for five, six years. I've been thinking this thing a lot longer. There are quite a different conditions upstairs than when this was started. You can naturally feel what I mentioned in a speech earlier today that it's as if the entire financial system has come to rely on this system to continue with the population, right up in Iceland's Secret Bank. The banking institutions, the pension fund, all count on them to do in themselves pretty much what they think, sending the bill to us through the hatches every month, and that the country's home pays the bottle up quietly and quietly. I also said in the past that the pension fund would soon submit to a slightly different law, and I can better penetrate it in my second answer below.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u88	Madam President. It is for an army to have that means that it must be brought to him from all sides. That's why I've chosen a pick-up at General Ludendorffur's stop. It even appeared. in that there are a few queries from me that I allow to use this opportunity to draw attention to. One is the payment of an apartment loan fund. One is about the housing staff, and the answer is coming from government sources as to which money he has placed in the homes of the country. A third is the surveillance of the FEC on this price-separated loan operation and on the basis of which formulas are in force or have been published by public members in the form of such complex cases as these. Finally, I would like to assume that I have sought that there will be a special discussion at the appropriate time for insurance where financial and economic ministers would respond. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u89	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this very much. It is almost certain that some members of the Central Party will join with him and his associates in a special discussion of insurance. I reiterate what I said before, thank you for the party in this matter. I also welcome the queries as a boy. A senator has submitted. I hear they're inserted into this case, and certainly a part of an application. I could use some. There's an army out there. Senator. I'd also like to think of this as a mass of yours. Here it was that when knights cut off one head from the other, they always sprang up, so they had to be on hand. We need to be quick in this struggle, so taking the step must be bold and powerful, not slaving like a cat around a hot grin.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u90	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a bill to correct a law on rights and duties of the officers of the state, No. 70/1996, with subsequent changes in working age increases. Fortunately, we Icelanders are on average getting older, but we were not decades ago. We keep our work ability and endurance to the end of our life longer than before when men had grown old from hard work to the point of life. Besides, we're getting older, we're having more people in the age range from 67 years up and up. A few years ago, social security laws were changed. A selective pension age from 65 years of age up to 80 years of age was set. In other words, they could choose when they went to pension within this period. But not everyone can take advantage of this because of the law of No. 70/1996, on the rights and duties of public employees, it is very clear that government officials and government officials are to resign after they become 70 years old, i.e. Next month, if I remember correctly. Thus, these fine men and women cannot take advantage of a flexible retirement. This group of Kingdom workers includes many with decades of experience, with vast knowledge and experience. In itself, it is a great waste, and it is unjust to appoint people who are decent and who have the ability to work, who have the will to work, to retire. Now I make it clear that with this bill, people are not being obliged to work until they are 73 years of age. They are giving people who want and can, and they are interested in the possibility of doing so. Then I will come back to the fact that in these people, in this human race, there is an enormous knowledge. There are a few things I can mention, some classes, although you may not be allowed to interfere. I can mention, for example. A university professor with long years of work, an enormous experience, a lot of knowledge. They're called home after 70. Some of these fine men and women have been hired as contractors in their 70's and continue to teach. What, then, do they stumble into? 100 you have. K. On the contrary to what the Central Classes suggested, professional income is not a waste of pension money. Each step lays before people a trap, making it more difficult for them to do their jobs after 70 years if they choose to do so. I remember that on a fine committee at first conducted by Pétur Blöndal, and then I took over at the time, these matters were discussed. I've heard so much and learned that I know that within the circle of older citizens' society, there is a great willingness to allow people to work longer if they choose and can. One leading woman, who I heard at this fall meeting, said: "We do not go past the last day of sales, even though one year is being added to our lives. She's absolutely right. It is a waste to avoid using the active force of people with all this experience, all this knowledge, in many cases very well - educated people with precious education. I mentioned a university professor earlier. I could give you more examples. I know examples of scientists who have been studying for a long time in Iceland, various studies that have even been volunteering and working without being paid solely to continue their research for as long as they believe the investigation requires. Should we put a stone in the street of these people? No. Rather, we should encourage them to use their strength as they please and will. This bill is restricted to government employees who are legally bound by this age of work. Today, as a retirement age in Iceland is 67 years, people in a general labour market can stop working at that age. We have discovered that very often people are expected to quit the public markets around 70 or 70 years of age. However, we have seen examples of this, and one thing comes to mind that many traders who have done a great day's work and are growing older become excellent construction counselors, men with 40 to fifty years of experience. There are no better people to take care of such work at the judgment of the person here. To this end, this bill is suggested, that we stop wasting the strength and knowledge of the elderly Icelanders and that we allow this group to function until 73 years of age, which is an excellent first step because after that time, we will see the effect of this. Now I say again: It is also necessary that this so - called vacation market be taken up and that people will be able to earn their income without being affected. There's a lot of work to do with this. We prevented social isolation from occurring. Many who simply stop working and lose some of the natural desire to live at least what seems to be, even suffer poor health just because they retire and do not have the same purpose they once had. To our judgment on this matter, which is beside me. paritaprevir Árnadóttir Kolbrönnad, Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunulsson, Gunnar Sveinsson Sólsson, Sigurður Páll Jónsson and Birgir Þórarinsson, is making the right move to allow people to be happy for themselves and society's benefit to 73 years of age if they choose to do so. I hope after this discussion, the bill is treated with a careful treatment for an economic and business committee, I presume, so we can use the wealth that exists in these good people. I hope to get a good discussion on this subject and a good payment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u91	Madam President. It's kind of manly in the hall outside of a respectable president, but that may not be a topic for discussion here. Thank you. Sæmundsson's prime minister for providing this bill. I think it's time. There are some things he said worth calling attention to, and I agree with most, if not everything. In his history, the original - language man spoke. Happily, we are living longer. Our chances of survival are greater than our grandparents. We're better health than before, we're more professional, and so on. Of course, one of the greatest treasures we Icelanders have is the human wealth himself. That is why we should make the best use of it, promising people to use their own human resources in the way they choose. As a result, there are no arguments that I take into account that suggest that public employees should be suspended in the late 70's. What's in my head is why we're looking at 73 years of the bill. It kind of stabbed me. I would've understood 75 years, that's half a dozen. How about 73 years? There must be some basis for that for those behind that bill. I know why. A senator will guide me into all the truth about it, unless I have misunderstood something, and we can combine to have it 75 years.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u92	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for this very much. As I said earlier today, I know that his breast has an equal heart that goes on and on and on. Why 73 years? asks why. Senator. I can, for example. It should be noted that if we look at current employment information, it will be greatly reduced after 73 years of age. When 73 years of preparation appeared, a nice man I met, a great expert on this field, said: Yes, 73 years, that's a good first step. I remember the time when we were in trouble. A senator sat together on the committee I mentioned earlier. Then people discussed the possibility that they could work until they were 80 years old. There are, however, issues to be taken care of. We are naturally caught up in a large portion of well - educated college people who are out of work. We need to consider some aspects of our life. But I see this number, 73 years, as the first step of more. We thought it was a bit hard to take it up about a half century ago, so we took the pole to do it this way, put it to the test, see the result, see the demand for those who have it, and then move on from there.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u93	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is eager to know the answer. I understand the logic now, 73 years ago. I'm not quite sure I'm going to write up on them unchanged. I think 75 years is a much better idea, but let's let it be between things. I think it might get a little complicated by public employees' unions, I think it needs to be considered. Of course, this is part of a much greater matter. We were struggling with rising pensions and moving him up to 70 years, as well as the flexibility of starting 65 years of pension and postponing him to 80 years. Sadly, that did not come into harmony. I had a problem with the suggestion that this would be done in 24 years. I think this needs to be done much faster and it's reasonable to plan 12 years on that subject, twelve years is a good time for us or for me who's of this age, now that's what I have left. Unless this bill goes on and I become a government worker until 75 years old, that's how it's gonna be. The idea behind this bill is good. I support what is trying to achieve. I understand the argument over 73 years. However, I fear that if you are not prepared to take the step up to 75 years, this will be for the next 73 years. As we look at the trend that will continue, that people's life span and working skills will always be increased in spite of their advanced age, I think it would be wise to do what I suggest. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u94	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an uplifting answer. This case is being treated by a committee. It is likely that there they will hear the formal response of the union to this idea. I have only informed the leaders of what is here in preparation. I, for example, had an excellent reaction. But I expect that society and that organization will post reviews on this subject. I myself see nothing in myself as to the 75 years limit. There may be some built - in conservativeness in the person here who took short steps and safely, which puts this number of years to be selected and sold that idea to my companions. But I agree with it as a matter of course. One senator says: This bill alone is one way that we encourage the elderly whom they choose and are able to take an active part in their business affairs for as long as they choose. Instead of laying a stone in their streets on that road, we should try to make it more convenient. There's something called in English -- I pray to the highest degree. President's Apologize - ----win-win Virgil. As far as I can see, everyone is working on a case like this because the wealth that exists in these good people will become useful to society, thus enabling them to have more meaningful lives and to share fully in society longer than it is now.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u95	A respectable president. I want to thank the movers, okay? paritaprevir Sæmundsson and his party importers for presenting this bill. It's a pleasure to hear how well you are. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason took on the bill, which gives us good hope for its subsequent progress. Surely, it is time for this discussion to be discussed, whether it is only natural for humans to be enabled to work longer if they themselves choose. It's the palm of the hand that works in the private sector. They simply work as long as they choose, below and needed. Here we are discussing a change in the rights and responsibilities of the government's employees who are able to work to 73 years of age. I was just wondering about that age, 73 years old, and we got an explanation here. After that age, in that time, the number of people in the workplace is reduced. I might ask, why not 80? They can stop when they want to. If they want to stop at 73 or 75 years of age, they may stop, but the warrant may not be so tight. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason feared that if the goal was set at 73 years, it would remain the same for decades. I don't believe in the Allied Council of Iceland, it's so hard to change the law. A senator has more experience than I do, perhaps speaking from that experience. It's hard for me to believe it's going to be so difficult. The age goal can be changed to the Committee, and this will be discussed, of course. There may be one thing I'd like to point out and fear, that's with the staff of state employees, especially the directors. Somehow, it needs to be spent. If the goal was set at 75 years of age, it would have to be fenced, making it easier for the State to free people. It has not been that way today, and it has been, and it has a great right to remain seated, and there is little way to stop it. I think it needs to be looked into in context, especially if the age goal was brought something higher than it's on the bill. They all know of the fact that powerful individuals who have much to do in the workforce are being put off all too soon. An example of this is known by everyone. They are often quite unhappy with their retirements, full of energy, and have the most important work experience. Perhaps one of the greatest weaknesses in modern society is how much young people are caught in a job market. Older people are often extremely low in demand for complete failure, for, of course, there are experiences, but there are other things, most often such as. a great deal of work and excellent conscientiousness. Older people are cut off when they look for a job or a job. It is often written off, but there is, of course, another debate. Still, we need to take that discussion here. How can we as a society put it into practice so that the experiences of older ones are better appreciated? The nation is getting older, and its ages are changing rapidly. Now it's so time that it's heading for a demographic problem. A growing number of working hands are likely to be at work. One cause is the decrease in children, and another factor is that the average life span has increased largely in this country and in other Western countries. The number of women in Iceland has increased since 1986 from 80 years up to 82 years in 2000 to nearly 84 years in 2016 or about four years. Men's life span has increased at the same time from 1986 to 78 years in 2000 until nearly 81 years in 2016 or about six years. The period of life of women and men has increased by four years and six years, however, the bill assumes an increase of about three years in the work of Kingdom workers. I just wanted to point out that the average life span has increased in those 30 years by five years. The chances of survival here in Iceland are with them in the highest part of Europe. Songs to be changed by this bill, law No. 70/1996, on the rights and duties of the government, are sometimes referred to as the staff law. They gained value on July 1, 1996, and are soon 22 years old. The law covers any person appointed, appointed, or hired in government service for more than one month. The law, however, does not take over the President of Iceland, Minister or General. All council members can work as long as voters decide. The law also does not refer to members of a partner and other types of private rights, even though they are entirely owned by the State, nor do the personnel of the institutions owned by others or entirely by the State, including the automatons, even if they are solely the donations from the State, so we do not have to worry about it. The bill presented here expects a change of 33. The law and the 43rd. The law that goes to all government officials, both officials and other advisers. Today, all government employees, both officials and other employees, have to give up their jobs on the next month after they reach 70 years of age. That's the way it is today. Finally, I encourage men to stick to this bill, which is merely offensive to employees. They are able to work longer if they are able to do this. I know that many people will be pleased with the attitude of this bill and the ability to work longer. This adds to the happiness of people, as the original - language reference puts them. What is more so than that? By the law, government employees will also also be able to expand their accumulated pension rights and for people who for some reason start jobs later in life, e.g. because of study or other jobs, and later in life it starts with the state, so it's good. I repeat that this bill is, in my opinion, extremely necessary and informative discussion about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u96	A respectable president. Thank you. Karl Gauti Hjaltason's senator greatly thanking him for his interest in this matter. It moved to an interesting point that did not enter the bill, but it has for some time been a hobby of the person here when he spoke of the topic. Like what? A senator knew of this change in terms of government rights and duties, No. 70/1996, instead of being appointed as permanent officials, they were appointed for five years at a time. This was likely to open up the Kingdom that could be advertised by an employer, such as. The governors and officials every five years. However, since 1996 the law's work has been done so that jobs have generally not been published every five years unless something has happened, something has been wrong. At least that's the feeling humans have had. True, there are honest exceptions. But I would personally have felt that there should be an inconsistencies that State - based jobs were published every five years. Of course, a person sitting in the office can apply for and have a head start, both through his experience and his career, or the State has the opportunity to plan for a five-year appointment to prevent it from happening, as it were. A senator put it so well.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u97	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. It's quite well known in the public sector that I worked for a long time, and maybe I'm still working, that's what this stuff is. It's a persistent problem, I know. This five-year rule doesn't exactly work, in my opinion. Men sit almost as long as they choose, unless they break a gross amount of their jobs and are let go, which is rare as everyone knows. Government workers especially, executives, and officials who are part of the Kingdom work have extremely high rights today. Judgments often go in their favor, causing the State to improve. But with this five-year order, if I may come in on it a little while I have time, it's a menu, of course. Five years of employment, a new job, may be a short time, but it is a long time when men may have spent 20 years and add another five years. Men may not be in the job after five years of a new job, but my experience says that the time between five and ten years is most successful. Men have begun to know the work and know all its threads, so I may not feel that it is quite right to expel men after five years, unless they have done something specifically wrong. But it may be reimbursed that men who don't stand their own business will be put outside.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u98	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Now he was keeping a little misunderstanding. In fact, I talked about advertising each job after five years and that the person could apply for it. I agree wholeheartedly with him that five, ten, or fifteen years of employment in government or government is about to pass quickly. They're getting in the field service and trying to do everything well. But I agree with that. There's actually something else that hasn't been found in law, but I know that at least there's been an opinion at the Iceland Board of Directors, i.e. that a man hired at a certain department can travel through a consulting session. This uses the staff law, which says that employees can be transferred to work. But it also has to do with individual work development, e.g. a man hired as an expert, head of department, office manager, and head of finance may as well travel to the Ministry of Justice or any other government agency. Then, instead of many departments, the board of directors views themselves as one workplace. There are these things you can keep in mind. This will no doubt be of great benefit to employees and is part of a particular development process on an individual basis. Then there is more and more experience for humans than if they were on the same mail for a whole career or for 20 years or something like that. I think anything like this might make both the government and the other employees feel better about each other.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u99	A respectable president. I appreciate that answer. About the advertisements, no, I didn't get it. First of all, it has been used only in extreme circumstances, cases that may have been very controversial, and executives will take it up when their work is suddenly advertised. About moving men to work. It looks very beautiful, but it is now often that the person often takes it, not always, uplifted to being transferred to the job. It's a lot of respect and dignity and such, so when people are moved to them, they don't feel comfortable unless they're moved higher. Although it's easy to talk about it, it's more difficult to do it, and it's hard to resist if such a talk comes up, if it's possible to talk to them. But then there's the other thing, too, that's being transferred to a job that may be higher than they used to be. Of course, they also come up with critical voices, saying: "Why was this work not advertised? Of course, we have often seen it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u100	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason for an excellent discussion on this subject. We'll discuss a bill to legalize the rights and responsibilities of the government. This suggests that those who serve in the State can function longer than 70 years, but as the law is now, they must stop immediately at 70 years of age. Hv. A senator carefully reviewed the laws and the manner in which that happened. I want to say here that I'm in favor of this case. Hv. In his talk, a senator mentioned that the average life span of men and women has increased by about five years. In general, people have more strength and strength than before. In fact, I don't see anything that would discourage those who are able and willing to continue working. All the labour market research we're looking at here and useful in their bridges are the working age of 16 to 74 years. We've got 73 years here. Hv. A senator only entered the number of years. I ask if he has strong opinions about how many years to add. Besides, I'm actually calling for reason. I'm a little surprised that this case didn't appear sooner or that there's been a lot of calls since, for example. Workforce management. Why not? Has a what? A senator has any answers to that question?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u101	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson for the answer. I'm glad to hear that the senator looks positively at the bill, but he asks me why it didn't come before. I am now a relatively new member of the Generals Hall, so I don't know why he asks about it. He may be looking for a reason that might lie somewhere, which may not be seen in the report. I can't think of why, not at all. But I think this bill is a good bill. There's a lot more money in this. Humans are not forced to continue, to stop sooner. So I just want to know if anyone else sees that there's anything else that will be pointed out, if that's also a burden. I can't see it. How many years will we add? That's three years, if I understood the question correctly, from 70 to 73 years. I think it's quite safe, if it turns out that the bill is just involuntary, going up for 75 years like a dog. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason mentioned.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u102	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Why has this idea not appeared before? I'm in the same position as what happened. Senator, I don't have a long Senate hearing, but this point has not been very prominent. I think it's strange, both from the way society has evolved and, like a whale. A candidate in his speech, how his life span has developed; we have a better measure of strength and ability. That's why it's strange that it didn't happen before. We have also observed a discussion about harmonizing the general labour market and the public market. That certainly does not match when it comes to this factor, which I feel somehow. You wonder why the bill of this material did not appear before. At least I haven't heard of it. There was nothing else behind my speculation. I wondered about these years, whether it should be a better look at the general market and whether there is any limit to it. Of course, this subject will be discussed on a committee and there will be reviews. I assume the labour market party is making a statement about this matter. Of course, one of the reasons against this could be to leave some of them on unemployment records to young people, educated people. To some extent, this possibility will be blocked. It may be that some such evidence is behind it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u103	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson for this answer. What I think most of all, is that this bill has not appeared before, but government employees have such good pension rights. But I've heard a lot of people complain that they're not good enough. I think a lot of people with energy, and growing, would like to work longer, for one, two, three years, maybe even longer. A great many still have full energy at this age, fortunately. Life in Iceland has risen quite a bit, as I mentioned. Since 1986, women's life span has increased by four years, and at the same time, men's life span has increased by six years. We're talking about a whole different society but we were here when these laws were passed, a completely different society. I have no doubt that this bill will be discussed on a committee and will be called for reviews from stakeholders and people who are concerned about it. Then, naturally, we get to hear their stand.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-38.u104	A respectable president. It's a good thing, it's fair, it's health and it's freedom. I believe it is right for the General to agree with the bill with the comment that I believe that improving the age range would be improving. That's all I have to say about it.
