ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-18-52.u1	In a letter dated April 16, 2018, the president has requested this, as it were. 8th cycle 1.mg. 13th par. Congress, to the Commission and Control Committee that it deals with the following reports by the National Re-examination: 2008/2010 nursing centres, employment-related rehabilitation and the National Museum of Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-18-52.u2	Borist has received a letter from a social and equal minister asking for an invitation every time to give a written answer to a covering query. 501, on travel expenses and daily money, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. Borist has received a letter from the secretary of state asking for every request to provide a written answer to a petition for this request. 384, for the ministers and for the driver, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. Finally, a letter from the Minister of Justice requested to provide a written answer to a petition for this request. 648 of the Council's Office Action Programme, from the Halla of Signý's Kristjánsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-18-52.u3	The President has been investigating this case. As the members of the Parliament are aware, a vote on this request was delayed on Monday after a letter received from the minister of foreign affairs, which described a specific viewpoint on the report request, indicating that it was partly directed to factors in the field of other ministers. Nevertheless, in the existing report request it is requested that points under the topic of the minister of foreign affairs be discussed under the recommendation of the President's section on the switch between administrations at Iceland's Management Board, No. 84/2017. There's an 8. It is required that foreign ministers handle foreign affairs, including agreements with other countries and actions. However, the responsibility for carrying out international contracts may be based on cases, or part of it, of other ministers, as we know. The request is for public matters and is fully fulfilling the terms of engagement. It is thus classified as a means of Congress and a vote. This study has also led to several adjustments in its request in order to improve the work taken into account. Has the Senate been printed up, and this is now a vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-18-52.u4	Mr. President. I come up here simply to commend the highest. A president for covering this up and going to a full-time job and making this decision. I'd especially like to commend a president for that as soon as second, I'd like to commend the highest order again. President for the initiative to have a conversation with the Commission, which we read about earlier this week about how to increase the exact respect of the council, how to handle the reporting requests, i.e. inquirys, etc. and follow through. I'll say yes to this report request as soon as I thank you. President for this decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-18-52.u5	A respectable president. I simply want to remind you what is behind this request. It is the indescribable war in Syria and the information presented in the newspaper commentary on the Onycho Show shown on TV on February 27th. In the United States, where it has been said that the Icelandic airline has repeatedly granted its permission to transport weapons suspected of ending in areas which it is forbidden to carry weapons in accordance with the international commitments under Iceland. We live in Iceland with responsibility when it comes to the conflict in Syria. Me and the council and the military authorities of a nation are also responsible for always speaking for peaceful solutions. We are also responsible for respecting international agreements on the table of arms trades as well as what is stated in this request, and we are also responsible for having respect for international human rights. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-18-52.u6	V.E.G. President. I thank the President for what he's done on this case, and I believe that it has led to correct it. However, I still believe that the matter would be more at the top of the table. Transport and Regional Ministers, as reported in the early stages of the case. There has never been a disagreement about the natural nature of this kind of information, but it has been considered in the way it was presented here. I believe it's at least Good if you smell this, but sit by the vote, in view of my position, that the main subject and core of the inquiry or the report request would lie to affairs that are under the direction of transport and rural administration, so I would have thought it would be reasonable for me to move into that direction.
