ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u1	A letter has been sent by the following advisers where the request is made to provide written answers to queries: From Minister of Foreign Affairs for a petition on the deck. 64, of the EU energy package, Community monitoring agencies and the EEA Convention, from Óli Björn Kárason. From the health minister for the trim. 263, the translation of Icelandic law and regulations, from Jón Valdimarsson. From Department of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for wish to inquire. 272, on the role of the synonym on a treatability plan, from the Albertína Frifjörg of Friðbjörg's Elíasdóttir. Finally, from the Environment and Resource Minister for the Säpon. 279, on emissions of greenhouse gases, and on land. 280 on climate operations, both from Ólafur Ísleifsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u2	Mr. President. There is talk of little more now than a big effort in housing and that it is the only thing that can help out for future bargains. On this point, both unions and professional union unions agree, as Dottie Snædal, new president of the ASI, after consultation with employee, professional team members, and government yesterday, said on permission of the president: But what was clearly evident at this meeting and a large key to what should come are the housing issues. V.E.G. Similarly, news reports show that the government intends to take over that matter. That's all for good news. They have been released in recent years, and we face a tremendous challenge. Situated government has shown a lack of ambition in the litigation of both the financial plans and the financial laws of the established government. Before the election, it was the highest. J.S. Minister on the Swiss route. Then he was invited to Finland, and he began to talk about the Finnish route. I sure hope he's not going to Disneyland. He's got to come down here and talk. In fact, the Conspiracy is the group that has taken the initiative in nearly all jobs when it comes to housing at this council. Last night, the Containment put together an action plan for eight housing teams, which focus on solutions that the public and the labor movement have called on. In fact, no minister could see reason to agree with that discussion. These are huge welfare issues, such as the highest. Minister has called it himself. In the spirit of new labor efforts and more cooperation at the council, at the highest level. The prime minister has talked a lot about, if I had found it normal to at least A minister of well - being would have been under discussion. He might have realized that he can learn something about the subject, including the matter. he can also cooperate with the government. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u3	Mr. President. I'd like to follow up on the highest answer. Social and equal Minister for asking why. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir of maternity and homeland away from birth service. The answer shows that it is to appoint a collective group of workers over the situation of pregnant women in the country in view of national birth service sites and to offer suggestions on meeting their circumstances and their families, whether within the maternity system or in other ways. I rejoice over this and hope that the work will begin as soon as possible, especially if the circumstances of these families are being opened up in a far wider way than the birthworm system. In any way, it is urgent that support for these families does not detract their right to maternity. To me, it is not a solution to prospective parents living away from birth service to start taking birth vacations before the birth of a baby to support themselves and their families while waiting for the birth of a new family member. It is also necessary to look to the prospective mothers who accompany their wives at birth or to adjust their work to care for other family members because of circumstances. It is very burdensome that spouses lose income or have to make use of holiday for weeks while waiting for birth away from home. The waiting process itself can also be costly, since it is not necessarily possible to wait in a relative's home or in a labor union's currency. The expense of families who need to use birth services away from their homes and meet them in order to be equal to their families in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u4	V.E.G. President. As perhaps most people know in this hall, I've been thinking for quite a long time about the members of the council who have been concerned about how to treat the rest of us, concerned about the respect of the council, and who wanted to do anything to improve it. These same senators come almost daily, or very regularly at least, officially, in the media, in this public office, and accuse other senators of stealing, by direct words, in the matter of driving, they accuse ministers of tax evasion, excerpts, etc. It is remarkable that this same group of senators, who are mostly of one body, but not entirely confined to him, has had to hire helpers from the beginning to try to control their own people, teach them how to fight and how not to be alone. We sit here in school with these people almost every day. And I will say unto these excellent people, These words, these words, these charges, shall neither increase the respect of the council, nor of them themselves. I'd like to challenge these fine people to start talking to the rest of us at the Senate Hall about politics, policy and the interests of this nation. Quit the other and try to be responsible. If so, you could save yourself the possible cost of helping with specialists in town.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u5	Mr. President. I'm one of the chair's spokesmen of the children, but all council members have named one. This is an assignment set up by UNICEF in Iceland, by the Children's Agent and Children's Department. The role of children is to guide the United Nations Children's Convention in their work, which is very easy because the United Nations Children's Covenant is under law in Iceland. I was going to come up this morning as a result of having an unprepared inquiry to the highest level. Einar, Daðason's social and Ásmundur minister. I was going to review a letter I sent to him and to the health minister and justice minister this morning. Then he grabbed me in the side room earlier and told me that these matters were not his responsibility. He would be with child protection, but the children's affairs would be with the minister of justice. I need to take a closer look. It is clear that in the United Nations Children's Covenant, the most important priority is for children. Whether it's the Lawgiver, the court or the appointed authority, we all have to do it. There are laws in this country that say so, the children's deal is legal. As members of Congress, we are responsible to monitor the implementation of that law. The president shares responsibility for child protection and their peace, children and family affairs and social affairs for the others and for these ministers. As I told you, I received just the information from the Child Protector that he has only Child Protective Services, not the child issue. I need to take a closer look. There was an idea where I was sitting in my chair earlier, thinking about how I was going to approach that speech, for it changed. Then I thought, " I need to know this clearly. ' Who can tell me? Maybe it's the President of Iceland himself. He is the one giving them the work. Although taking the initiative, the responsibility for the President of Iceland is the responsibility. I'll have to get this information and I'll contact him and get it clear. We're talking about a year old child and other children in Iceland who don't have a living permit, even though their parents have it. As a result, children are trapped in the hole of not having rights like other children in the country. Yet the law, and the UNICEF has told me that it is absolutely independent of the child's legal status. If a child is within our borders, we are under obligation to protect it and thus render equal service. [[The president calls.]] My next step is to talk to the president and find out who's really responsible for the child who's stuck in the hole.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u6	Mr. President. As a proud nation, we Icelanders often use our fine position in various arts as an example of how wonderful we are. We are, for example. In fact, in the most happy nations in the world, though we have fallen to 4th. That's when we count on the list of nations that have the purest energy, which is nearly 100% of the energy we use for renewables. Now we have added another first place to be proud of. This morning, Iceland's Habitat published a summary of carbon dioxide emissions from an individual economy. There, Iceland and I have achieved the outstanding success of the pollution of most of Europe, while emissions in Iceland have increased. due to increased air traffic and shipping transport since 2012. You can't just blame them. The fact is that emissions of an individual from Icelandic households have been higher than those of the other North countries since 2008, and the emissions have increased in us at the same time as being gathered in the other North countries, and our value for 2016 is even higher than that of 1995. Mr. President. As it turned out in Kleak, a news show last night, and we've been talking about here, we've got to start doing better on climate issues. Everything's calling us. At this morning's industry conference on employment policy, it just said that environmental and climate issues are one of our major topics in our present and future. We know well the ways that are drawn up; education, infrastructure, innovation, and work environment. We need to strengthen innovation in green technology, promote our green energy production and increase domestic production. It needs to be done much better, as can be seen in recent news of veggie producers who are falling under the cost of electricity transport because of the deplorement of the government's subsidies. Mr. President. We know exactly what to do, but unfortunately, neither budget 2019, nor transport programs, are being dealt with. We still have a chance to change that, and I still challenge the government to change that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u7	Mr. President. First, I want to respond. A senator who spoke before me and said: Of course, we need to consider such news as this morning. All of us need to improve when it comes to environmental and emissions. So all I want to do is point out and celebrate the government's policy on transport energy exchange. That's a very important thing. But better, if it's enough. I think we all agree on that. That was not what I had made a silent decision. I wanted to remind them that we Icelanders are now living in the United Nations Human Rights Council. True, it was not as positive as it would have been, since we sat down after the United States decided to stop sharing in the council. Yesterday, news on the scene of the council was brought up by representatives of Iceland who acted in a so - called peer review in which the status of human rights in Saudi Arabia was discussed. At the meeting the Icelanders encouraged, including the U.S.A. That Saudi Arabia would give up his war effort in the Yemen. I believe this is a matter relevant to the council. The world is amazed at the disaster in Yemen. Independent experts have estimated that since early 2016, more than 55,000 people died in warfare, they are not counted as the many deaths of epidemics and famines. Unfortunately, there is nowhere to go. I find it commendable that Icelanders use their voice internationally to speak for peace, but we must not forget our responsibility and our closest allies face the situation. There are Western weapons that are killing the people in the Yemen, even moving to the area using Icelandic airplanes. There are Americans who are helping Saudi Arabia to pick targets and to support the war. [[The president calls.]] This is therefore the case that we too need to adopt with the nations we work with internationally, such as in NATO.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u8	A respectable president. There's a call in the community today. It's a call, help us eliminate the list of models at Vogi. Governments, you do so well, and you come with funding to eliminate the list of waitings at Vogi. Our people are dying of addiction while they're waiting for some action and waiting for them to get into Vog. Can you imagine? How could it be 200 billion? K. is there so much in the governance, the health minister, and all that is involved? It is so intense that they prefer rather to face the fact that 42 people have died in 2018 from opioid-induced toxicity. How is this possible in 2018? How is it possible at the same time that the same health minister is content to move his Ministry to a new home because she has to separate it from the ministry she is today and it costs only 70 million? But when, most respected president, has there been a limit to the figures given to the cost of some job that the State has taken over? I just never think. They're talking about renewing the Ministers' cars fleet. This was last done in 2014 and 2015, costing 117 million. K. What about the people? What is the meaning of being elected agents at the General Assembly of the Icelanders and putting the people in the tenth place? It's time we took responsibility for what we're doing here. First place in town. Tomorrow evening, representatives of the nation who are fighting for these matters, the natural serious representatives of the people who are dealing with this challenge, are volunteer at the University of Poland. They have a plea, they have a gathering campaign to try to help the people on the waitrs at Vogi. [[The president calls.]] Is that possible, Mr. Honorable President? Is this even possible? I say no, it's not possible. This is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u9	A respectable president. First, I'm going to congratulate the United States by the variety of elected representatives of the U.S. Senate, where more women are now being seated and with more background than ever. According to this, I intend to go back on a tour that I and other members of the United Nations in the days. We even got there. An introduction to work at the UN Convention on Defense Against Desertification It made it clear that Iceland's focus on the recovery of land quality and water management on a global scale is very important for work under the contract. Why does Iceland have a special place in this area? This is because relatively few countries and very few European nations are dealing with desertification and therefore do not understand the problem or knowledge of the methods of land recovery. For more than 100 years, this has been the focus of land healing, and we are running the United Nations Geministration School. It has been shown that knowledge gained in this country is truly useful in other continents, and in international work it is important to have advocates for the recovery of land quality in all parts of the world. The work on deserts falls under the global goal of life on land, but it affects a number of other goals. This stresses the balance between decay and the world's restoration. Refining land quality is an inevitable part of climate action. Investment in land and vegetation is the basis for positive social development in many places, and land quality of life and migration are directly involved. Recently, the bill was measured for new land - healing practices and new forest shapes here at the General Assembly. Nice senators. We need to be aware of our work at recovery here on land, but also directly and indirectly on a global scale.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u10	V.E.G. President. It happened last week or so, that one snooze occurred. A senator, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, felt a thief at the second time. Senator Ásmundur Friðriksson. I am not valuated that this thievery theory has taken place, because the above - mentioned senator specifically announced that he had not stolen it before now. I'm not going to reexamine the indiscriminate, dishonest, petty, and shamefulness of this statement. It's a baseless scoundrel. A senator let down another man. However, I would like to direct it to the President and the Senate's leadership that there will be any end to this matter. Here comes a fight, one after the other, the Porta senators with this charge every few months. The president and the chairman of the council now know my three advantages: this is to dismiss it as a form of unfounded indiscretions, and to judge these comments in some way. The Senate's leadership also has the advantage to investigate the matter and see if it can be said that this is a conflict with the rules of the council. Or if the Council of Congress considers the evidence that money has been stolen here from the General Assembly, it is likely that according to the incident, it will be reported to the police. However, it is not possible to live up to the fact that this statement of one senator or an entire body of councils to one of the members of the council runs here after a stroke of some sort.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u11	A respectable president. As I have said here in the past, I feel that it is inappropriate for me to go to a material religious talk in the Lady of Allallis. Religion and study of life are personal matters that do not occur here, which may occur in 62 C.E. The Constitution receives special protection and support from one religion. This is the one called the Evangelical Lutheran Church. I have heard a number of reasons for this arrangement, and all of them are rarely the bad ones that are at their head. The objections are still more and, without exception, stronger. One argument that is used and evil is that the majority of Icelanders are Christian and want to have a State church. That's a bad argument. It's an equality for law, another basic democracy society, just because people don't get legal rights for a particular group, and we don't give the rights of minorities for some national fees. But let's just try to accept this argument. Then I would like to point out that there are people with other opinions and that since the Constitution is legislation, it must be our role to explain why we believe that the arrangement should be somehow different, that any other church or any other society of life should enjoy this special protection, this special support. In other words, this argument follows that my role as a senator who does not endorse Christianity is to argue against the Evangelical Lutheran religion, a material argument that their subject of religion is wrong. It must be the course I'm supposed to go trying to push the voters and the Senate into the direction I think is right. Please note that this is only the case if we feel that it is normal to have a state religion or a state view to begin with. I don't think it's normal, so it's not normal to do a material talk here. I'd like to ask them members of the council who defend the relationship between Church and State if they want to. Do they want to come here and discuss the physical contradictions, facts and logics found in the Bible, now or whether it matters? If so, I'm ready. I would find that unappreciative, for I find that this relationship between Church and State is over my head.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u12	A respectable president. The crowd puts people in first place. But what does this government do? There is still deliberate financial violence. How long should it last? During the council, is it a good thing for us that we have agreed, by 56 votes, to stop economic violence because we have taken a vital supply of microchip? Will the present government deliberately and deliberately continue violence? June 12th. was the following synopsis agreed, on a non-employment proposal: ▪ The General concluded to hide financial and economic ministers from providing a legal bill, no later than November 1, 2018, a release from tax-free pensions under social aid law, No. 99/2007. At the billing, we'll have the work to do, including... consult with Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Minister with the aim of ensuring that inadequacy of pension does not interfere with social security. One of the 56 members approved. Bjarni son of Benediktsson, the man who was to submit this bill before November 1. How can we treat our weakest people this way, continuing to exploit people with deceptive strength and communication? I'm asking the highest. Is there no record of what's approved in the Council? Is that all right? Where's the respect? The responsibility of the council must lie with the people out there, still taking on a sponsor who is kidding with them, who does not give them a crown, which results in their loss. I ask, are we going to a council, having agreed to quit, not do anything? [[The president calls.]] I'll just say, "Why on earth are we accepting something here?"
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u13	Mr. President. Norwegian cooperation is very important and useful to us Icelanders. We need to take care of it as best we can. It is a rich tradition for Norwegian cooperation in various fields of employment, labor unions, and other communities, as well as for rural and public institutions. Ministers of the country meet regularly. This is also done by members of the Council of the North. The opinions and experience of reforms in various fields and mutual values are also supported internationally. The Northern Council is a democratic site for normatic cooperation, a form of idea center for cooperation projects. The recent Congress of the North Council of Oslo was successful, and Iceland's department is coming home with good ideas, based on Norwegian values. The Northern Council website has information on all of this, and I'm telling you what to do. Councilmen to take advantage of these ideas in their professions. Since there are insignificances in the international world, it is more important now that the northern countries return to pies and defend the success that has been achieved against threats to Norwegian values. The North countries have, e.g. fine results in equality, although the level of equality is still far off. Women's deteriorating status now appears to be accompanied by a change in political fields in the United States, in many parts of Europe and also in the Northern countries, e.g. as it comes to women's self - determination rights. The Norwegian states need to defend and advance their position. V.E.G. The prime minister of Iceland mentioned at the Council of Northern America in Oslo another project to which the North countries should unite, which is action against tax fraud and tax taxes. Not only does this to the welfare of the individual but it also prevents democracy, for people who come from paying taxes would be joining outside the community. I'll take my heart to the highest. The prime minister in this regard, and I encourage her to take a decisive lead in this case on behalf of the Norwegian government.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u14	Mr. President. Time and again we learn of the increase in greenhouse gas emissions and the time to do something about climate change. As we know, the target of the Paris meeting is to maintain global warming below 2°C and stay below 1.5°C. This has been discussed during the dawns, and this morning the Habitat published statistics indicating that Iceland had the largest emissions of CO2 on an individual in Europe. When news such as this hit us, it is easy to lose heart and become apathetic, saying, "It doesn't matter what Iceland does. ' We're so small, it's all going to hell anyway. But I want to believe that Iceland and I are not apathetic. Shows also covered solutions, but they must be multiple. Much has been said about transport energy exchanges, of course important, as well as about increasing the percentage of people who make use of public transportation. A vital aspect of the restoration of wetlands is the restoration of the water surface. You can do that, e.g. by stopping ditches to stop emissions and convert old grasslands into swamps again. It is vital that we do this work in cooperation with farmers where appropriate. In my opinion, however, one of the most important things in the binding of carbons is large-sized forestry in cooperation with citizens of the country, farmers. They have the hard work of patience and hard work to accomplish in decades. This government is going to give them an opportunity to plant forests on a scale that has not previously known in Iceland, to dress this cold, winded forest so that we stand our ground in greenhouse gas emissions and to return our land to a better state of conquest for the next generation. It goes well with the changes in farming practices. People in traditional agriculture have dropped for decades worldwide, but we in this large country need to have light for the next town. This is more important to us than large countries in small lands. To do so, we also need to make farmers who want to switch from traditional agriculture to forestry where appropriate. The government's ambitious actions program has 34 actions, reaching a minimum of 7 billion dollars. During the next five years, you will take special action on climate. Never so much money has been spent on these very important subjects. You see, having left in control is important.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u15	V.E.G. President. In times of uncertainty, we Icelanders can always assume that, on a legal basis, the city of Iceland will arrive and publish a curious, round - the - wheeling interest decision. One such morning was this morning, and this peak increase in Iceland's State Bank has received the following grades from public speakers: it's premature, it's strange, it's a declaration of war, and it's a cold greeting into a dresser's speech. A late bank manager said this morning that uncertainty over collective agreements was like a cloud over the nation. At the same time, he throws sliding at that uncertainty fire. A late banker also said that this time there was more inflation than it had been for a long time. At the same time, he throws a hatch on the inflation metal. Mr. President. The truth is, I don't know what's going on at the Secret Bank. Without fun, I thought before I opened the press this morning that there was something to do with the air conditioning at the bank, that they don't have enough oxygen there or something. The point is, it's serious, and this isn't the first time that the Sullabra's contracts are going to freak out. It is next certain that with the decision they have not forgotten and learned nothing, the Federal Committee, the money conference committee, and the bank manager. What's absolutely certain is that the Secret Bank does not hear the voices of society. In fact, the late bank has made room for it now that it will happen by buying special earphones for all employees. The sound of the people and society will not be heard through the walls of the Black air. The fact is, however, that the cow bank, the money policy committee, and the bank manager are an independent economic problem. So there are two solutions: Changing direction and changing crews.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u16	Mr. President. At the same time as there are unsatisfactory signs of acidification in the economy, Iceland's Sellabanki has decided to increase growth by 25 points in order to counteract inflation. Understandably, when the economy is getting cold in the country, they hear loud complaints and ask how this team is working, which team is involved in communicating. That is understandable, but we may want to focus on ourselves rather than on the Secret Bank. The secret bank operates on the law he is given here in this hall to follow a 2.5% inflation target. There has been a break - up price target, and the harbor bank has no alternative but to increase growth. He does so in a kind of apology because the bank is fully aware of the situation of raising interest levels into cooling economy. This is not new. We've always seen the same swing before. When a dollar gets sick, the inflation is rising, and the ban is rising. This also occurred between 2008 and2010. This also occurred between 2001◯2003 and 20013 C.E. At the same time that our economy, our professional life, needed encouragement from the Federal Bank, the Federal Bank was obliged to increase interest because the law from the Council tells him that it is necessary to do so. Perhaps we should complain a little less about the Secret Bank and join together in the Hall of Congress about changing this money policy because it is obviously not working. The result is disastrous. In fact, in our neighboring lands, inflation has been much higher than in neighboring lands, and growth levels far higher than those in neighboring lands. But let us also see that this morning's Summit is at the invitation of the Federal Bank, not the Secret Bank.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u17	A respectable president. At the council before, why? paritaprevir Páll Magnússon second off. A member of the council, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, including of irony and for the fact that, according to a senator's report, another senator was identified as a thief. Hv. A senator suggested to the president that the suit be quiet. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear for this behaviour. The right thing is wrong. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson has sent talks to the presiding committee, where he wishes the committee to take their stand on the matter. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson violated the rules of the prime committee on the cost of work when he sought extraordinary pay for the cost of driving over the years. This is a formal correct procedure in which abnormal remunerations are suspected. That's what it said. A senator from public speaking has absolute freedom of speech, just like all of us here. The correct procedure to request that the president of Hell be a senator might also turn to the presiding committee, who can determine that. I'll wait. A senator also respects it to others at the same time. Senators were planning to ride with them at the council, ordering them to stand up to what is established in this council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u18	A respectable president. More than a year ago, the problem was. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson for the bill of a change in agricultural products. So it happened in September. A member of Parliament, after discussions with members of the Central Party, announced to the council that he and other members of the council would welcome this matter back. During discussions at the Assembly Hall at the end of October this year, there was a problem. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson from the coming of this case. A few days later, now on November 5, this is the case of Congress, the bill for a change in agricultural products, 295th case, which is almost a word - for - word bill. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi, son of Sveinsson except he's not registered to it. While we are happy, of course, to receive support for the issues we offer, I ask: Mr President, is this a legitimate hearing here at the council?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u19	V.E.G. President. You see, it's amazing that this case has come to pass because we had discussed it at the Central Party's Council that we would bring it up. Gunnar Bragi sent mail at committee level on September 30, and October 25, he goes up in a talk and says: "I intend to re-examine a bill. There he quotes his former bill by permission of a president: ▪... where I leave no doubt that the same or similar arrangement applies in the meat industry.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u20	Mr. President. After that. Davíð Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir and who. Gunnlaugsson I'd like to compare two of your lyrics. The first one's from the dog. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi, the son of Sveinsson, comes from his bill he set before a year ago. Two. says: Despite the requirements of competitive legislation, products in the meat industry are permitted to unite, make agreements between partners, including with regard to work, and with other forms of cooperation. In the text of the sledgehammer. The delegates say: Despite the requirements of competitive legislation, the products of the meat industry are permitted to unite and make an agreement on what is being done and to cooperate with another kind of cooperation. The second item in the text of the sledgehammer. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi, the son of Sveinsson, says: Such agreements for agricultural ministers should be suspended for information. And so is the text of the Council of forward, which saith, The information on such agreements and the cooperation of a minister should be ignored for information. It's almost as much text as it would have been said somewhere that it was a written theft.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u21	V.E.G. President. It's not sweet or related to me, but I'm coming up here for a reason. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson came up because of him. I'm so sorry for understanding that it happened this way. It is customary for members of Congress to take cases previously granted or to let the person know that they intend to deliver the case and either make a deal about it or not. It is clear that October 25th. Report 'whick'. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson in Pontu said he'd be happy to bring this case back. Then they were. Since members of the council are going to move the matter now in the hall, it was totally known to them. I just want to say the same thing the last speaker said earlier. I think of it as a sort of stealing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u22	A respectable president. Everyone wanted Lilja back. You know, about it as a matter of course. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson had a story about last year, all of whom were members of the Congress of the convention of the progressives of the case. This was the case with the media. I don't think the Central Party has any exclusive rights for a 71 st. that turn to the milk industry and work out. Well, at least not at all. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson changed his coat, I think it's an application case that we'll continue with. And at least at the right time. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson spoke of it in a talk. Also in his speech, the deputy senatorÞórarinn Indur Pétursson, said that we were working on the case. So it was not to be surprising. Hv. paritaprevir Kolbrún Árnadóttir Aarnadótir spoke of this conversation at a Central Party meeting. I don't have that meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u23	The president allows himself to remind members of the Parliament to address others or to name other members of the council fully.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u24	V.E.G. President. I'm happy. I don't have to attend a party of the Central Party. So I can't tell you what's going on there. But, hey. paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir did well with the situation. This is a very good promotional case by the forwarding party. This article has been published, and I think it's a great deal, and it's fine that it's done, but then we can go to all kinds of fights in this room. V.E.G. President. I can really pick a case for no reason. The members of the Central Party have been plucking out of a file that we graduates believe we own. Everything is extremely good and good for more people to speak to.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u25	The president allows him to ask if he needs to discuss it so much if all the issues are so good. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u26	A respectable president. I see in itself no reason to be saying a lot about this case here, but I just think it's true that the person standing here, and that the second person of the matter, was abroad at the time of time. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson was discussing it here at the Assembly Hall that he intended to make such a case - just because it appeared here, and the one standing here was not true. However, as we have also seen, a deputy deputy General Ingi Pétursson declared that the Senate party was working on such a case, and I can confirm that it has been done since September. I am so proud to be another messenger of that matter and feel that in itself there is no need to discuss this further.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u27	President. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress]] I'm less worried about who owns the case. The idea is as bad, whoever brought it first. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Of course, when it comes to looking at the prices of dairy products that are to rise considerably above meat, we must, of course, have to overcome the competitive treatment against meat, too, so that it can increase further as milk has done. [[Humor: You weren't invited to join us, not in either case.]] It's a very special matter for me to come up and, in fact, a dull idea to separate a whole industry from competitive laws, as suggested here. I'm most sad to see how many senators in this hall seem to be following it, whether they're a forward group one, two, three, or four.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u28	The recommendation by the president is not to discuss matters that have already been discussed and that are made up of the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u29	Mr. President. To be honest, I have to admit that I was hoping that a case contrary to consumers would be lost in the system. I hoped it would get lost somewhere, either here on a tunnel or in the system or anywhere else. Nevertheless, it is the right of members of Congress to state a case. It is also the right of those who have been 1st, no matter what category they have been, to respect who is the 1st transporter, when the matter really is the same between Congresss. I find this self - righteous and natural comment on the central Party that came up earlier, although I am physically completely opposed to the bill and proclaim a very strong opposition on the part of its restoration.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u30	Mr. President. I'm not going to talk about this thing that everyone else has already talked about except what Þórhildur Sunna started to say, that there is a principle in this team that we started here, finished the council, that if you want to make a point with another senator, he is invited to come and talk afterwards. This is a rule that has been established since the beginning of the council, 2013. I've seen the highest. Minister of Guðlaugur, Thor Thor Þór Þórðarson, in his speech program, was immediately prepared for a discussion of Presidential conference administration after the matter of the council because he was not invited to do so. Then Sigis the Svandís of Svavarsdóttir went, why. A councilman left green, up in a chair, and apologized for that. I have also seen Rignhei Ragnheiður's Ríkharðsdóttir, who was then the procurator of the Independence Party, come in a public assembly and apologize for the same thing. If we have other rules, i.e. if it is another principle that the Independence Party wants to promote in the council, thus violating the principle that is a good principle, inviting people to respond if you are going to go against it harshly in a speech chair with a name that is strong. paritaprevir Brins the Brynjar of Níelsson did to Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, is but a new rule. [[Up front.]] Then let's make it clear. [[For example: Paul Magnúson.]] What?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u31	Not a conversation in the audience.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u32	Like what? paritaprevir Páll Magnússon did, and now there's a new rule. Well, that's just the way it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u33	V.E.G. President. The earlier issue we discussed is confirmation that the Agency's policy is basically what is called in the English language, by the permission of a president, ◯pyr/pasteè, unless after elections, there will be an additional number of places. [[Up front.]] To say, Mr. President, this case is quite fine, and while men try to take credit for it, we can, quite frankly, take it. The key point is that the matter is stated and, of course, we will support this matter that has come from us and try to get it through the council as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u34	A respectable president. There's been some misunderstanding here. Hv. paritaprevir Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Ivarsdóttir believed I had been accusing of trouble. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. That's not what I was doing at all. I just made out the comments he's had about another senator and he's written down, including... On the facebook anyway. A senator, since he felt a thief to Ásmundur, why? paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna. He did not simply direct talks to the Council's Presidency. He specifically noted in public that he did not have a thieflike position, and no senator of Pirata, w. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson - Until now. I thought there was no prerogative for what to do. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví, the son of Gunnarsson, is aware of this because my point here was directed to the president and the leadership of the council. I can see why. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna has requested the word. You're against that. þm. Björn bear has begun a thief's identity. þm. Ásmundur Friðrksson? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u35	Mr. President. It's a little like watching TV with a teenager, there's a switch between channels, two cases running. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I'm going to be on the campaign that's dealing with the forwarding party debates and the Central Party on either case. That discussion reminds me of a small amount of life in the northern settlement of 1b in Akureyri, where I grew up with six siblings. Although I often lived in a camp with my friends, there was no more fighting than there was in my home. Perhaps it was because my siblings and I were so alike in spite of everything. I will suggest that the companies be united - and you may call ég Solomon. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u36	V.E.G. President. It's nice to be able to use the joke. It is sometimes used when something has to be hidden or nobody wants to talk to you about it. I miss a little bit, if it's such a good thing, why aren't there any more senators after the fact that we're here?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u37	A respectable president. If that's a suggestion. paritaprevir Páll Magnússon that president begins to reprove. Senators for what they're dropping on Facebook, I remind you. A senator said that it would likely pass over independence too and would be a very interesting bait to the council, I believe. Regarding what has been mentioned before in connection with the council tradition that if you plan to criticize a senator, you give him the opportunity to give an answer. And it came to pass by the dawn. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson up in a pit and said a whole line of things that aren't right, is not true. I came up in a pit and corrected him, and for that I had contacted what. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson and gave him an opportunity to come here and talk after me, which he did, and actually repeated something that I thought I had corrected in a previous speech, which is another story. This is a general courtesy, I think, and the Piratars have worked like that. I don't think it's fair to hear from members of the Independence Party that they're going to lecture Martyrs on how to treat other members of Congress, because we allow people to answer for us at least, here and on Facebook, while I remember. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u38	V.E.G. President. I'm just gonna say, because this is gonna be fun here, that I remember when I was at sea when it was good for dinner, soup and lots of meat bites on the table, that some people spit on the pieces on the plate they wanted to eat so some others wouldn't take them. This came to my mind earlier, even though there was no spit on this matter, I feel that respect for what has been established in the council is due to be given to the person who has moved them if anyone else is going to remask them. It's not material about what this matter is, it's just that this tradition is honored.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u39	A respectable president. June 12th. I promised the President I wouldn't say anything, but I'm afraid I have to betray it. It's so tempting when people start talking about how we can disappear from a single - use community and go over to use. I'm going to quote myself, with permission: I think the two treatment groups need to go into some compromise process and resolve custody over these matters that they strive to speak for. But I'm not going to say anything. It always hurts when we part. You can feel it in this room. We've all been through feelings of loss and heartbreak, and it's often sparkling between friends, but I'm saying that the president will see if there are any careers between high school groups one and two in order that we, children, will not have to watch our parents fight all too often here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u40	Mr. President. She has become a bit tired, a custom that seems to be forming among the independents to demand the acquiescation of the council or the chairman of the President's Board of Justice for one thing or another, to me speaking and speaking. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. I got it. I got it. The members of the Independence Party to take themselves and their words seriously, just take these all the way and send talks to the Presidency Committee where they live, and stop crawling around here forever, that the president should do something about it. Just send in a complaint like we did to what? paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u41	A respectable president. V.E.G. The president has already informed me that he is bored with this discussion about the President's conference board, but I raised a question at the highest level. A president earlier, and if he wanted to answer it for me, we could finish it pretty soon. It's not a great problem. I just wanted to get an answer to a simple question. There is no need for any members of the council to try to make this up to some high school tip. Councilmen of the left green come up here in their habitual sensitivity to criticism of the forward party, not to mention a brother. The only thing I ask, a respectable president, is the answer to this question: Is it in his view that once a member of the council has made his case, when he announces that he intends to bring it back, he has returned it to the council, the same text from the other members of the council has taken over to the council? This is all I wanted to know, a respectable president. Besides, we do not have to worry about this much, and we rejoice if, of course, most members of the council are willing to support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u42	May this discussion be shortened - it can not be all long because most people have spoken twice - the president wants simply to point out the obvious in these cases, that Congress cases are included in the order they receive and receive a number according to that. The legal right of senators to bring up a matter of Congress and to plead a case is unscrupulous and will not be taken away. On the other hand, it is clear that it is a good practice to let it be mentioned in any way based on or following the example of older members of Congress, which is often presented in the report of such cases that such cases were previously moving. This is the simple approach to these materials that I would consider to be a good rule in the contributions and implementation of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u43	A respectable president. This time I'd like to discuss the other subject, which is here for discussion. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] At Council 145, I'm sure, I gave a bill that the government was no longer obliged to give free land to religious organizations. A bright future had provided a joint bill at the same council as I knew about it, but the report was very different, even though the bill was simple: out with 5. Nevertheless, I decided to make the effort because I wanted to leave the report that, of course, was much more important to me. From this on, there were natural disagreements, I apologized, and then I have developed another practice. It happened, for example. recently with a request for insurance insurance that was based on a query. paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Isun, that instead of simply offering mine, I went to ask a king or a priest. Senator, we talked about it and we made it up. The same is true when it comes to decommissioning a pension in the Social Security Act, that is, the case Piratars were working in a campaign, writing articles about, reporting, calling for the information on which this case is based. We're glad that we're deputized. After all, it is always a matter of human interaction and politeness. There are no rules we can keep here. Here we need to figure out how we treat one another in the sense of allowing people not only to enjoy what they have accomplished but also to realize that we are all independent members of the Parliament with our own will. It doesn't always work out together, but the only way people can do this is to talk to each other. This cannot be solved by rules.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u44	A respectable president. I want to come here for the best words. President. I haven't seen it this way. The official title of the case given in 2017, I wasn't at a council, and I really know that matter, was exported on lamb. However, it does seem that one of the articles in this matter is based on the same law in the agricultural law as the bill I am a carrier, along with the Halla Signý of Kristjánsdóttir's Daughter. Because it is based on the same article, it is consistent. However, the report differs greatly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u45	Mr. President. I can't allow myself to use this opportunity to point out that the two subjects discussed here are in one sense similar to the president's meeting board. I was prepared to discuss the activities of the council yesterday that the system called does not exist. Rather, there are only people and rules. Then people use the rules, whether against others or for the benefit of others. Sometimes it comes out well, sometimes badly, but by the end of the day, all of us are human. In both of these matters, we have good reason to try to use the rules of the game in a reasonable and honest way in behalf of one another and in an upbuilding way in behalf of society and always try to look to human beings because all of us are human.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u46	The president considers it to be the conclusion of this discussion that all members of Congress are human and are well pleased. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u47	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize the accountants and review to the Senate. 365, No. 312. The bill presents new overall reviews and revisions. With a new total law, it is aimed at making the law clearer on the requirements for accountants, increasing transparency, and the visualization of the requirements for accountants and increasing the effectiveness of accountants and objective of their tasks. With the bill, there's also some. introduced European Directive No. 2014/56 on the conversion of the 2006/43 Directive on the review of annual accounts and balance accounts, and the 537/2014 Regulation on specific requirements for law-enforcement review of PECs. The bill highlights the need for accountants to carry out their jobs in accordance with a good review program and explains what is included in a good review program. The work of accountants and the work of accountants is being done in detail in the bill. Re-examination should be performed in a laboured reexamination company registered in the official review registry. It is suggested that there are more demands on the review companies, granting the job permit and admissions. The bill has more detailed requirements for the level of accountants, while the accountant's volume is one of the most important support to his work. A reviewer must, in effect, be independent of his customers. Official surveillance of accountants and accountants is being reinforced and the bill suggests that monitoring of accountants and reviews will be carried out to the FDA. Monitoring of accountants and accountants shall be strong and risky, and they are highly authorized sources of legislation with the objective of preventing and preventing violations of existing rules associated with review of services provided by accountants and accountants. Special emphasis and enrichment requirements are set out for accountants and accountants who review units related to the public interest and are introduced by the Commission Regulation 537/2014, to specific requirements for a legal review of nationalities. Because the units associated with the public interest are significantly relevant to the public, which is the result of the scope and complexity of their activities or of their persons revised, it is necessary to promote the credibility of the revised taxation of units associated with the public interest. Therefore, more demands are made for accountants and accountants who review such units. This includes: has added to the demand for translucency, for public and for increased risk-specific monitoring of these accountants and review companies. In view of this, changes must be made in existing monitoring of accountants and accountants who will review Units related to the public interest. Data change is proposed to the law's wood code and to increase the resources the Commission has to deal with the violations of accountants and accountants on the law on them. A working group with representatives from a legal accountant's group, the Department of Review and the SEC came up with the bill. The bill was put in the consultation puzzle at the end of September for introductions and reviews. Thereafter, changes in the bill series were made in accordance with indications received. The bill is suggested that the law's office be on January 1 on January 2020. V.E.G. President. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u48	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to a new overall layer of action against the financial resources and the funding of terrorism. It was necessary to re-evaluate the current law because they have not met the minimum international requirements as shown by the assessment of the International Programme FAFF, whose report on Iceland's protection against money theft and terrorist funding was published on April 6 of this year. Perhaps it is proper to explain this group of workers or to go over the purpose of it in just a few words. This English FAFF group, with the permission of a president, is always referred to as the FAFF, was founded at a meeting of the world's seven major industrial states in Paris in July 1989. The role of the group is to work on measures to prevent the abuse of the financial system in order to bring ill - treated funds into circulation and to combat terrorist funding. Iceland cooperated with FAFF in September 1991 and with its admission to Iceland to coordinate legislation and policy recommendations on FAFF recommendations. FAFF is responsible for international dating and building the European Union's money-student decrees on the recommendations of the group. The role and workspace of FAFF are divided into three: First, to prepare recommendations for the measures against terrorist spending and funding, second, to evaluate measures in the induction of proposals, and third, to study and to learn how to know the methods of terrorists and the financial resources of terrorism. There are 40 of the FAFFs who were in line with Iceland in the report that I referred to earlier in my speech, as well as to the effectiveness of their implementation. If Iceland has not responded sufficiently to comments published in a June June report, Iceland may be put on a list of risky countries. This means that there will be a international warning against business with Icelandic people unless there is an increase in the availability of a reliable study, as well as an impact on the creditability of Icelandic companies as well as the Icelandic government. So the bill I recommend here is both at the same time, reacting to the above report of FAFF, and induction of the fourth European Union's sludge-st section of the 2015 European Union and also on the set of regulations of the fifth European budgeted Sports Directive, which is from this year. It has been determined that this year's fourth money-student commission will be recorded in the EEA Convention on December 5th. A respectable president. The main element of the bill is based on existing laws, and their format is in many respects unchanged. It remains defined as those who are reported, but under those circumstances, the function and professions that can most likely be abused in order to clean up money. These stakeholders are obliged to conduct a reliable survey of their clients and report to the money - disposal agency they suspect that money or business is a result of criminal conduct. With a money-student office, I refer to the office of financial analysis of police, as this bill refers to it. Commission reports are also obliged to have an appropriate system and procedures to detect suspicious trades or transactions and to maintain reliable business data for a certain period of time. They are also obliged to ensure that employees regularly receive proper training and re-education in measures against money theft and financing. The role of the Rapporteurs is to have administrative control by reporting sources which includes ensuring that they have an appropriate system and processes, perform dependencies and other legal duties. The main changes in current legislation according to this bill that I recommend here can be divided into six sections. I'm just going to step up on them for a little while. First, because of the political makeup of those at high risk, there are laws that are more detailed than those in the current law and that will apply to national and foreign groups alike. Those at risk because of political ties are meant for those at risk for their position. It's even here. Of princes and ministers, and of all the senators, who sit evenly in this chamber, and of judges. Advertisers are obliged to have a strategy or system to determine whether a businessman is considered at risk for political relationships and, if so, should be carried out on increased dependability tests in accordance with the regulations of the law. Second, it is suggested that the law on real owners be made more detailed and that the true identity of the owner of funds and similar parties will be discussed. A real owner is considered to be the person or person who actually owns or operates a law by direct or indirect ownership that more than 25% of the legal entity, has more than 25% of the voting rights, or is considered to have other authority over the legislators. Exception is the legal entity registered in an orderly market. Third, there is a suggestion that all government agencies will be obliged to report financial analysis by police offices, i.e. which is often called a money - stolen agency, about suspicious business. It is important that this be stated in the bill, so that such announcements do not interfere with government confidentiality. Fourth, it is assumed that further cooperation, cooperation, and oversight by the government will be proposed that the order and function of a operating team be legalized against money thefts and the funding of terrorism. In the operating group, representatives of the government, who have access to the litigation party, and to enable governments to work for the purpose of the law, are legally restricted to silence between representatives in a operating group. However, it is mandatory to remain silent in the companies to receive silent information and data. The management group's tasks are expected to include in addition to perspective and policy policies, including they are expected and involved in the type of risk assessment, instructions, warnings and educational activities, whether they are reported by the parties, public or public. Furthermore, the management team is expected to have regular consultations, whether with public parties, advising parties, or other stakeholders, and to inform relevant parties of the main dangers associated with the category on occasion. Fifth, there is a suggestion that all reported members are under surveillance, but so far, for example. The law and the lottery are not well monitored. It is also suggested that in addition to those who are under the supervision of the FDA, they will be in one place instead of the current level where monitoring is divided between consumers' clinics, Realty Hall monitoring committees, and the Department of Reviews. If the bill is approved, this surveillance will shift to the government tax manager. The aim of these changes is to ensure that all spontaneous persons will submit to supervision and, at the same time, a comparable surveillance. Is it considered a significant economy to combine all surveillance, except for those in the SEC, in one place, both in line with the surveillance and development of expert knowledge. Finally, a crime against fines or prisons is suggested to be turned away. Coral therapy is a complex, gradual process that requires the power of courts. This is therefore recommended to be disassigned and pressure and penalties are completely delivered to a health care provider with authority to apply day-to-day fines, administration guiltys, deliver repairs, and, in serious cases, severely, the removal of the highest managers or the revocation of jobs. As a general rule, it is more efficient for governments to impose governmental laws than for them to represent courts, to end up in a key position to determine where to respond effectively in order to maintain law. If a announcement has been made by an unsatisfactory member, he can still look for an invalidation of that decision in the courts. Of course, if handled properly, no court case is taken away. A respectable president. So I have explained key points of the bill and suggested that the bill be followed by this discussion referred to why. The World Economic and Business Committee for the approval of the treatment and treatment of the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u49	Mr. President. From a very quick passage, it seems to me that bill can do a lot of good things. But I want to roll up one thing. The fact is that global financial treasure is no longer just an individual person, but it is more and more important that it takes place over borders and often through a so - called tax industry, which is, not always a personal tax cover, but with a great disintegration that it is easy to hide property and thus get money in some way. I have proposed a synonym that companies with headquarters in countries considered to be a tax area or a low tax state will be made to pay a particular monitoring fee, because there is an increased complication associated with the monitoring of the activities of these enterprises. I would like to ask the Minister of Justice if there is any evidence against making up a similar approach in the cases where members of the Iceland who are under the control of this bill have some sort of activity in these under tax or tax countries or countries that are listed in the list of high-risk states. Whether we could adopt any such approach not only to discourage such activity but also to reduce its risks but also to finance the increased monitoring that is really urgent for such a person.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u50	A respectable president. Thank you. A member of the council for the counter-sponsor. This is so true of this party that although the Minister of Justice supervises money theft, this is a lawsuit under the secretary of finance at all times. Most of the institutions involved are made up of financial ministers, the Ministry of finance, such as the tax system. Hv. In fact, a senator claims that it is easier to monitor world headquarters located in certain states called under taxes. A great international awakening has now been to what humans have wanted to call the evils of such states competitively with other countries. In the last year and years, especially the loss, cooperation has been greatly increased in terms of cross-border tax control. I don't know about that, maybe I've had it. A senator of some figures about it, that it's a little harder to behave against countries like yourself in cooperation with other countries on IRS. Their numbers have increased greatly. Also defined as low taxes. Thus, people have access to information in terms of taxes, i.e. for the purpose of IRS. Men have been in great cooperation with these countries too. Whatever it is. A senator is actually suggesting an extra tax on companies or individuals who choose to have some sort of registration in these states. I'm already skeptical of its ability to stand. But as far as this bill is concerned, it just calls for routine surveillance of more sources than is currently being done. I think people should see how this works before setting further thresholds there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u51	Mr. President. So now, my last job before I went to Congress was about research on money nonsense. There are patterns that those who consider these issues see worldwide. I have, for example. No one ever saw a money case over a billion dollars that doesn't go through London. At the same time, countries such as Man, Belize, and Panama have very limited information. True, over the last two, three years, Panama has improved significantly. But there are countries where you can't get information about what is going on. In fact, these countries make it a point to keep people secret so as to make it easier to pursue money and similar activities. It's the countries I think about, not the countries we're in some way dealing with on information flows. This spring was approved by a bill that introduced several factors related to this bill. There was a certain suspicion in spring that focused mainly on a small number of companies. But okay. There was every reason to accept that bill. But I wondered in the context of whether there is any statistics, some information about surveillance, and the results of trying to stop money. Some kind of assessment of the extent to which money is spent and how it goes. Now, everyone is aware that a great deal of money is being practiced worldwide. I can't even remember how big the money is now, but it runs at a trillion dollars a year. To assess the effectiveness of these laws, we need to know the extent of the problem and the extent of the problem that it is facing in relation to its relative size. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u52	A respectable president. I also thought about the inquiry that came in the previous answer. A senator, that when a person is considering taxing some headquarters or company with headquarters in some other country, it is also linked to a tax home. I'm not sure that one state has a prerogative to pass a fee to any company that has a residence somewhere else. But up to once, boy. A senator also points to the potential amount of money bullshit, or what this bill shows on the land. It has been estimated that there is no reason to believe that the scope in Iceland is less or much more than in the countries we prefer to compare with. There are no figures and might be more likely to argue that there was something smaller in this country than in any other country. But it is impossible to say anything about it. I'd also like to mention that in connection with these legislations, because this is not the law that takes all the cases, that, following this bill, it will be a law, it needs to revise a number of law columns that are under any department at least I know, for example. that at the Department of Employment, legislation has begun to attract real owners. It matters. I'd like to mention that at the end of this counter, it's not over. This is not the only law on defense of money laundering in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u53	Mr. President. After looking at the bill very loosely, it seems to me that there are a lot of benefits. Of course we have a problem. A financial and business committee after going through it carefully asking questions that visitors may have prepared for answering. I'd like to ask the highest, though. A minister published in the report of the international projection team here taken as short - term FAFF and completed in February this year. This study led to many comments and showed some weaknesses. In some respects, they are treated here. But I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: When was the last assessment made? Did the second assessment have been made? Were there any comments that did not respond? What's the situation with that? Only the report that began in 2017 and ended in February 2018 and that presented so many serious comments and stated in the bill that Iceland is now in the follow-up of this group.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u54	A respectable president. The review referred to in the report with the bill, and earlier this year the third assessment was made in this regard in the European Regulation. The second assessment, the previous one, was performed in 2006. Iceland has been working through the recommendations of this assessment. It may not be quite fair to compare the situation in 2006 with today. Both legislation and methodology have also changed on these assessments. We have been progressively following the trend around us in Europe. There's a lot of developments in this. For example, as indicated in the report, we are here, for example. bringing in a third of the money-student directives, or maybe the fourth, at least Directive 2015, but also a Directive agreed on in summer by the European Union. That's exactly what they put it to do with the 2015 directive. This shows that the law of law is constantly being dealt with, and there is no reason to expect anything other than constant action. As a result, it is a lawsuit, money launderer, crime, which is likely to take very rapid changes, and it is always trying to get past the current rules. It may be only expected that governments will always be in all the countries behind them. But it is important to show that we plan to be at least Together with those who are determined to commit a crime in this category.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u55	Mr. President. The report on the property of Icelanders in nationalities says this, with the permission of a president: It is important to recognize that the definition, extramarital, and follow-up of data is a workload of activity, but the region has the work and costs needed to be put in case of a problem to be taken lightly. For example, there is a annual bill and a money - disposal agency that shows that Iceland had to be reproved, even on a global scale because of lack of work. It's a little deep in that year, isn't it? As we discuss in the series on how the Kingdom Fund is affected, it is said that work needs to be improved. There's talk of one four standards, looks me, everything. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if she thinks it's enough. It seems to me that these changes are being made which must require a lot of work. Since we've been back in the process of processing data so far, and we've received criticism within the country and beyond, I ask the highest. Whether it feels that there is enough to be expected and is mentioned on page 37 of the bill on how to influence the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u56	A respectable president. The financial needs and the human needs of the bill have been evaluated. In particular, there is an increase in a special money - cleaning office in the local capital area. And the governor will have to grow. As I traced in my history speech, some authorities are now expected to move all the way to the governor. These cases were weighed and assessed in the processing of the bill, which eventually led to the conclusion. So some adjustments may need to be made to 2nd. ... abdicating in this regard. We came to realize that this calls for an increase, especially with the police and local district attorney diagnostics. You just have to face it. This is expected and has already been increased by the police for this purpose and by the district attorney. We realized that there is also a increase in the number of taxpayers. All of this costs money, but it's completely inevitable, as we have considered it. The experience of this needs to be further evaluated, whether it needs to be better, or some kind of control between institutions. Then it'll just be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u57	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a synopsis of nature clinics. The suggestion reads: The Council of Environment and Resource Ministers concludes to establish a staff to assess the experience of a natural room and to see if economic services are formally taking on more regional projects than they now have. The task force will be assigned to develop ways to strengthen the cooperation of nature clinics and institutions of the State in order to use funding for the level of knowledge and monitoring of the environment and to improve efficiency in cooperation with nature protection. The one that stands here is the first transporter in the motion, but the importers have a problem. paritaprevir Hjaltason Bergþór Guðmundsson, Bjarkey Gunnarsdóttir Gnarsdóttir, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Elíasdóttir Þórunn Egilsdóttir, Vilhjálmur Árnason Karl Gauti Gjörn, Willum Þór Ólason. This proposal was previously transferred to the Council of 145, and 146, but it was not granted. At 145th, there were five reviews. All the managers welcomed the proposal and accepted its objective, along with providing helpful tips, especially with regard to the work of the staff group, which the proposal assumes to be implemented. The suggestion may include: that there is a high level of natural and environmental activity in Iceland due to climate targets, as a result of increasing tourism and changes in land use. So it is important to review how capitalism is spent and how professional knowledge and financial resources can best be used in a modern society. Nature agencies play an important role under the laws of nature research and the implementation of nature protection in cooperation with the institutions of the Environment and Resources Office. More than 40 years have passed since the first ideas about the natural institutions of the region and more than 20 years since the first living room began working. Ideas of the creation of a plant can be traced back to the '70's, to a committee offering the link between Iceland's Natural Institutes of Nature and Natural Mission Research. Ideas developed for more than 20 years until they became law, No. 60/1992 of Iceland's Natural Institutes and Nature Services. Then, in 1995, the Eastern Museum, the first living room, was formed, and then there were one by one and now eight living rooms. In the early years, the offices were drove by direct involvement in the government that appointed one of the directors. By a change of law in 2002, the State withdrew from direct involvement in the labs, but treaties were made for the government's financial contributions to the living room with the rural communities that own them and run them. During these days, contracts are being made to renew between the state and the community. Since 2002, there has been a gradual reduction in the link between a natural agency and the resource service despite the review of the review of the legal period that the intention was not to reduce cooperation with the administrations of the State but to explain the economic responsibility. Now, as previously said, eight plant offices have worked, while in some parts of the country, they have built up an knowledge center that operates on natural resources, supported by the state and rural society. It is therefore suggested that in the work force, you will be able to see how working in the same part of the country can strengthen both activities. It is also appropriate to consider points from the Institute of Research at the University of Iceland in the review of the 145th Council. By permission of the president, it says: However, there is even greater potential for the plant, research, and other work of knowledge in the country. More than that, they cooperate with each other. The Agency then points out that it is no less important to take full care of the research work in the country, saying: To further develop cooperation, it needs to strengthen the members of the environment's knowledge systems, linking them with regional policies and governments'willingness to build up knowledge by different types of outlying areas. These points point to work that started around 2009 as to the assessment of national knowledge sites. That work came back in 2010, but never became an extension of that work. It has been found that in addition to a legal function, the clinics play an important community role where their activities strengthen the infrastructure, increase the level of education, and increase knowledge of the communities where they work. Thus, the benefits of society are many. The living room operates people who are unlikely to be living in the country if these activities were not available. At such times, university students are often hired for summer jobs, but that is just what often lacks, that summer university education is in the country. Under the government's backing, the plant of nature brings to a minimum 30% in return to the State's contribution. The plant is so active in building special fields of education that it strengthens and provides for its assigned tasks. In this way, they subsidize the country and increase financial activity in rural areas, where they work in business with service partners. As a result, there is a direct and indirect increase in exposure. Knowledge of nature also helps with various aspects of society's activities, such as rural society and the development of tourism and other occupations. They contribute to the sustainable use of natural resources. At the same time, this knowledge was used in public and school education. They also benefit from knowledge of natural processes in the community. The work of a nature clinic requires well - educated personnel, which is important in the pursuit of diverse and powerful society. The living room's work may attract people who, even if they have other assignments in the area, remain for a long time. In this way, the work works against a leak of wisdom from the country and strengthens effective regional policy. A diverse and powerful community is built on social activities, as well as on the fact that people with different backgrounds and knowledge are present to carry out tasks that are reserved for leisure purposes. Thus, the benefits of working for naturalists are many, although it may be difficult to appreciate the benefits of naturalists working in the parent society or attending a meeting. When given an assignment in a natural home, it is a ideal way to transport public work to the country. While monitoring and research is important for national organisations, it can be more practical for the community as a whole that the projects are carried out by regional institutions. Travel costs are reduced, unexpected situations can be handled in nature, and a wide range of projects can be integrated in the area. Thus, there is much strength in the geographical distribution of institutions responsible for the work of the Environment Ministry. Thus, to hide more activities during monitoring and research in Icelandic nature, such as vegetation, bird life, and nature protection, there is a reasonable way to ensure the wide range of activities distributed around the country and the maximum efficiency of knowledge and capital. It is also urgent to review the role of a nature clinic in a nature protection clinic, which has always been blurred. At the same time as increasing land control and reexamination of institutions in nature protection areas, all pieces of the puzzle must be examined and whether or how natural agencies will work on nature protection. If there is a desire to delegate additional government projects to the nature agency, there are some ways to, such as, by law, give them a job with special contracts to the Ministry, either a new project or a project that is already legal. Then it is possible to delegate duties to the living room with special letters of office or with special contracts between the living room and those responsible for national projects. As mentioned earlier, 2002 changed the law on the living rooms. At that time, the State withdrew from direct involvement, but treaties with the communities who own them and run them were made. Although the intention was to continue strong relationships with the Environment and Resource Ministry, the association has gradually diminished. However, the will of the legislature in 2002 at the 127th legislation when the law was adopted is presented in a committee of more part of the Council of the Environment. It says, by permission of the president: The ▪ The more important point is that in the contracts that a minister will make with natural institutions, based on Article 2. The bill, shall be determined that the Environment Ministry will regularly meet with Iceland's Natural Institute of Nature and the State's Protection, where the Agency has committed some of the activities of nature clinics... At the 2005 National Office of Nature, the Society confirmed the Supreme Court. Minister of the environment, Sigríður Anna Þórðardóttir, this understanding. In spite of this, plans for regular consultation have not been made. In addition to losing the cooperation, there was a significant reduction in government budget to the living room between 2008 and 2012. Since 2012 the budget has disappeared, but the total government budget is much lower in value than before collapse. In the years that follow, financial programmes are expected to make more money for research and monitoring of Iceland's nature than have been in recent years, and it is important to make the best use of the resources in the cooperation of the institutions that can best handle each project. There is great opportunity in cooperation with the institutions. Therefore, the opinion here is that there is now a good opportunity for Environment and Resource Ministers and rural society to pause and evaluate the experience of nature's work for the last 20 years. A team on such projects might be considering whether practical measures of nature can be made that are formally taking on more regional projects now than they have and to continue to support the cooperation of the nature agency and the institutions of the State, which are particularly Iceland's Natural Institute and Environment. At the same time, rural society could assess whether it would be reasonable for more rural communities to be involved in the existing natural institutions and whether the growth in rural activities could have multiple effects in communities. V.E.G. President. As previously said, there is a lot of dough in Iceland's nature and environment and so it's important to review these issues now, including Because of commitments to climate and changing land uses. I have now completed the basic facts about the proposal and suggest that it be passed on to the environment and transport committee for further discussion and payment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u58	A respectable president. We are here in the matter of a synonym that has to do with assigning a environmental and resource minister to establish a working group to evaluate the experience in the work of a living room and to see if economic institutions are formally taking on more regional projects than they now have. Today, there are eight natural clinics operating around the country. The first search of the day was 1995 and the eighth 2013. They work as a comprehensive research and service agency in nature studies, each in its own part of the country. The workforce is based on the expertise of the workers and the special status of each area. Sources and strong links to the environment are among these factors. In addition, there is a good and close cooperation between the country's home and the country's growing. This involves the strength that makes them even. can engage in real - time field studies. This involves a lot of knowledge built up in natural institutions over two decades and is based on their role in preserving natural resources and pursuing scientific research in the part of the living room, providing advice, research, and, in particular, providing general monitoring of the environment with data collection, education, counselling, services, and monitoring. They too have specialized in their territory and are therefore precious. Their work involves all the things I have previously counted, as well as bird life and animal life, archeological research, fish farming, and research in marine life, and other tasks. They have e.g. has adopted national markings on the fossil record, and it might be counted as more, as they have specialized in different fields. All of this is a task that has an important role in protecting the marine and rural life. The Treaty of the current government puts great emphasis on environmental and climate issues and can be said to be the strand on which the treaty is based in wide context. The primary objective is to foster strong society, environment, and climate, innovation, and research. All of these are factors that build for the prosperity of the nation and also make a major international difference. The natural nature of Iceland has some special place. It is protected by efforts by both man and natural forces. Thus, monitoring and testing of the nature of the land have never been more important than at present. Some recessions have been made to a nature clinic in the past decade or since a collapse. Yet, they have chosen to be growing, but it would be in harmony with government policies now to promote their activities. A respectable president. A living room also supports a new developed strategy adopted here by spring. At first, the Environment Ministry heard nature agencies, but the rural communities have taken over their ownership. This illustrates their importance in the minds of the surrounding community. The basis of the study protocol should include Find aims to improve research, science, and innovation in the country and to support sustainable development across the country. In that case, natural protection will contribute to the development of settlements, as it says, by permission of the president: The quality of infrastructure development increases, reduces the risk of unnecessary noise, and further funding by increasing the expertise of infrastructure design so that they fall best into landscapes and contribute to the well - being of the visitors. A short term will be a project consistent with the strategy of national development for the protection of nature and cultural memory. That's where nature agencies come in strong. They have prepared the soil with various research and data available there. A respectable president. The current government's policies are at the same well that affects the role of a natural clinic all over the country. So I take my heart to this synonym and believe that with her consent, we are promoting government policy of protecting the nature of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u59	V.E.G. President. I recommend a synopsis proposal for the establishment of the National Institute of Youth in Iceland on Lake Saturday. The case is on the subject. 30 p.m. 30 p.m. Transporters with me have a problem. The members of the council of Þórunn Egil's Egilsdóttir, Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristun's daughter, and Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir. The suggestions are: The General concluded to hide the Ministry of Education and Culture in order to appoint a team as an organized establishment of the University of America's Youth in Lake Saturday. The minister decides the order of the task force, but it sits at least one representative of Iceland's Teenage Association and one from the Blue Forest. The group even takes over. Based on the ongoing work of law at the National Institutes of People, the Use of Mansicists and Schools on Lake Saturday, on the business of Iceland's Youth Company, studies of the elimination of students from high schools, and experience in the establishment and management of other public schools in this country, especially in Flatus and Sunsaver. The Outfit shall bring their conclusions to the minister of the work no later than 31st May 2019.156. The report shows that the matter was presented to a Council of 148, but it was not recommended then and is now slightly changed, i.e. in a report. This proposal is proposed, although in Iceland there is no general law at all as far as social education is concerned. With a synopsis no. 41 of the 145th legislature for the People's University approved at the General Assembly of June 2, 2016, was commissioned by a minister of education and cultural culture to start working on a bill to set up a social law in Iceland, in the north. The objective was to make public college an approved choice in the education system, which has legal and official support, as stated in the introduction of a piece of paper with the proposal. According to it, a minister is assigned to submit a bill at the latest in the spring council of 2017. It has not been established, but it is the contract of the bill for the People's University Act at the Ministry at this time and is at the Ministry of Congress. The task force to organise the establishment of a public college on Lake Lava should observe and take into account the agreement of national lawgivers in their profession. A respectable president. I'm going to discuss the people's colleges and their benefits into our educationfjords and those who have been employed here, the LungA at Seysters and the People's University of Flattery, and the proposed schools here, and the possibility of running along with juvenile camps, or summer camps, in cooperation with the Narcotic Association. For example, in traditional colleges or colleges, there are many differences in the way we get used to things that we should get used to, and they have greater flexibility in learning and teaching. A good description or definition is found on the compass's website, which is an information mystery in the management of the other house, which aims for young people. It also provides practical information on public schools in various areas of life that affect young people and that question, including the following: answer the question, What a People's School is. That's where the President's permission says: ▪ Colleges are a form of life - style, where students can choose to study from a number of different subjects. People's schools highlight, not tests, but rather participation and learning something useful and fun. People's colleges are operating in all the North countries. Of course, a question mark can be applied to learning something useful and enjoyable. I have no doubt that many people enjoy the traditional schools. But there is a mark of such a school, and there is no need to misunderstand it in the analysis, that the emphasis is not on testing and testing, as we would like to know. If you look at such schools, whether those who have been employed here or in the northern countries, called fokehøjskoler, they are characteristic of, wherever you go, that the student and its interests are always in the foreground. The emphasis is on following the student's interests. There are no tests. The schools are for all and frequent, to enable students, they share in setting up their own programs with the teacher's support for education and experience, with emphasis on participation. There are no special study criteria or other tests or courses that must be completed in order to reach that end. These are often boarding schools where students live and attend the knowledge they are interested in. Such schools have been operated abroad and have a long tradition. We may know most of the examples from Denmark. There was the first school founded in 1830, where the core of the ideologies was that school witnessing should be shaped by students as teachers and directors. Freedom has always been fundamental; freedom to learn, freedom to choose, freedom to be, freedom to design a personal program. Like I said, there are two schools working here on the country today. One of them is LungA, a school founded in 2013, and as a People's School at Sufficiency, a scholarship from public and private agencies, as well as from school fees. It places high emphasis on self - esteem through art and creative work. All I've heard is that there's really good work going on there. In the autumn of 2018, the People's University of Flattage began its work. There are two different lines of study available, each at a maximum of about 20 students. Builds a second course of study in local strengths, i.e. Society, nature, and culture, but the other route is based on ideas and creation. The school uses unfashionable facilities in the village for the operation. I'm kind of impressed with anyone who's more interested in learning about people's schools and the ideologies that are behind a visit to the school in Flatland. It is a fine site where you can find really helpful information and well - developed information about things that turn around, not just that the school itself operates at Flats. Rather, it gives good insight into how people colleges are different from traditional schools and other educational offers, offering different approach to knowledge and teaching methods. It even says, by permission of the president: At the National University of Flateyri, a student in the center is supported by teachers, students' communities, and people in which knowledge, skills, and skills become part of jobs related to employment, society, and culture. The emphasis is on training in active creative thinking through projects that require cooperation and different experience. The organization and the study are based onmatic projects that combine subjects and school society with the life, community, and culture of the local community. By the emphasis on boarding and the study of the local community where they live, this community will be different from that of the ideologies. A respectable president. I believe the institution of such schools is good for education, students and society. Then we can ask ourselves, " Do I need third school? ' I think so. Therefore, I present this matter. Over the years, Iceland's National Institute of Youth has regularly encouraged the idea of starting a public college. The project has been initiated for several years, but this has always stopped, as there is no law on this school plan in Iceland, as it has been reported. Iceland's youth society has emphasized that things are happening in the right order and that the adjustment is the first step. That's why I suggest these two things are worked together. Interest is for the establishment of a people's university on Lake Saturday, with the access of educational authorities and the Blue Forest. Often it takes some initiative from here to associate with those who can initiate such schools. Iceland's youth society has already formed a team of cooperation at a community college in Denmark, which is ready to contribute in preparation and implementation, as is a rich tradition, as I entered it, for public schools in Denmark and in other parts of the North countries. Iceland's youth club has also run a young camp at the pools of Hingings' Valley for many years. There are school groups in the 9th grade for almost a week with their teachers. It has been desirable to come to the camp, where social skills, outdoors, and life without modern technology are emphasized. All the subjects are being accomplished in informal studies. Now the Dala settlement has sold these assets to the pools and uncertainty of what we will do. It has been considered to move the camp to Lake Lava. The arrival of Iceland's Youth Association on Lake Saturday provides opportunities for the establishment of a youth's public schools and businesses and at the same time ensures that various tasks do not stop, but can continue in the same form. These include short trips, meetings, meetings, sports and teenage associates, and especially the summer camp of the disabled, but a firm desire has been made available for the authorities in the Union to continue operating camps. I'd like to say that the benefits of public college are undisputed when it comes to diversity. That is where their strength lies. Other priorities include the focus on human culture, self - abuse, and the active participation of students. I think our education system has been missing. I think we need third school full, and with him we have at least three schools in three parts of the country. This I think is very positive, and will enhance the variety and options of the education system and meet the needs of students, with the goal of encouraging them to take part in projects and studied solutions and promoting initiatives, criticism, and creative work of students. The results of a recent study on the effects of going to a community college show a significant positive effect on the outcome of a decommissionation. Young people who have escaped from school are more likely to go back to school and finish it by going to public school. There's a lot of intersecting situations in our lives. I'm not talking about them years when we're going through school. I think this may be a good thing for us in that regard. At that time, the two schools that have been operated, the LungA for five years, and then the newly formed school of Flats, have shown that such schools are needed to increase diversity. With such a school on Lake Saturday, with emphasis on sports, we would have three schools in three parts of the country. As I said in the beginning, there's a People's School bill for Development in the Ministry and it's at the U.S. Constitution. Secretary of education and culture. It is planned that the secretary should present the case to the General of March, and I expect that this will be the case. I would truly wish that the matter might run into that job so that we could win this together, but it must be admitted that the facts are true that we have not yet been legally guaranteed, and at the same time, with the legal status of a people's university or a public school in Iceland. I saw when I examined the Constitution that the People's Pentateuch has been changed to a high school. I don't think any further. I just saw it on the Constitution, but there must have been some reason. Of course, we need to legally accept such schools and their work and, at the same time, conditions and license requirements, benefits of study and supervision, which are essential for school activities in order to receive official support. It would be a good idea to accept this synopsis proposal and, as announced in a Congressary, complete with a general law on public college, or People's School. I hope and assume that the matter will be treated quickly, and I have no doubt that it will be granted professional payoff. A top-of-the-art Board of Education.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u60	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson for this story and the Senate resolution that I find most interesting. I think there's a lot of work to do to break the Icelandic school system. In a report I was running over a public college, I decided that the importance of improving my teaching methods is widely accepted. It says, by permission of the President: The college schools have been considered to be the most powerful and independent contribution of the northern countries to the field of education and adult education. The education of the Western world points to a higher education of the North American people as a model to be seen by the entire school system. I find this very interesting. But maybe I'll come up front to ask why. A senator of what he mentioned, i.e. That we have today with two rods, let's say, "Peer university wand, i.e. The LungA of the East and then recently a powerful Western school founded in Flattu. I think it's very important to trust the financial basis and the existence of these schools. At the same time that I find the council mishap very interesting, I also fear that we will be off to too many places with a wand without having it covered. One thing is to guarantee the legal foundation of school, which I think is important and good to know that it is the highest level. A minister of education will quickly offer a bill, but how so. A senator provides the government's high cost raise when it comes to public or public schools?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u61	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's question. This, of course, is a very important question, how the funding of these schools should be done and how our arrival here, the government, should be doing so. Hv. A senator, in fact, took care of my a-part response, which, of course, is the prerequisite for public law. We have this legal setting, and we can set such schools and create them for the real reason that we can strengthen them over their heads. Hv. A senator also spoke of it as being a sort of wand, it's just a five-year story behind the LungA and a statue in Flattage. This is as much as it happens in our community, the source force, and the interest are great locally, is simply ahead of the government and the legislatator when it comes to these factors. That is why I stressed in my speech that we would speed it up. It's taken three years to complete the general law. I can see that this is going to be under the education and cultural minister as far as education is concerned, and that we came to the funding of these schools in cooperation, of course, with the members of their own community, their communities. I'm not going into that trade. Now that we've replaced our school system, we're in high school, and the basic schools are at the hands of the locals. I'm picturing models where we're getting into this together with our communities, at least for a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u62	A respectable president. Thank you. That's the answer from a senator. It is important in the discussion of this fine planning and, of course, when it comes to the bill later on this council to discuss it fully and ensure the financial framework of these schools. Hv. But I also feel that it's all right to look to private and pioneers who have reached such schools. I'd also like to mention it here, and maybe a good way to get a reaction. The senator, whether it is possible for these schools to teach in English, as I know in some cases, to have done and therefore appeal to foreign students. I wondered, " Can I just be a social and foreign students pick them up and be ready to pay for coming to a community college here in Iceland? ' [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u63	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Bryndís Haraldsdóttir question. Yes, these are points to consider, whether to teach in another language. I think we must always respect the ideologies, this original ideologies of a free university and that it is for everyone. I could see it as an advantage if foreign students were to come here, just as we have been through the years, and especially Denmark at such schools when we don't know which way to go about the rest, even after high school. It's been very good, so I support it. It is only in the spirit of the ideologies and the spirit of the report published in 2012 that pointed out that there was a potential for education in our system when it comes to the emphasis we find in public schools.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u64	Mr. President. This is the most interesting issue of all. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson Thor Þrsson, founded the local community of Iceland's Youth Association on Lake Saturday. I agree with what. Senator, I think this form, the People School form, is very good for our education list. I'll be looking into the case with a very open mind on the General and Education Committee, but I think it's also very important to consider this in the overall context of a published bill from the highest level. Secretary of education and culture. I want to be able to look into this matter carefully. The General and Education Committee, and that's why I'm going to ask what is discussed in the report. It says that this is a way to make sure that various tasks do not stop, nor can they continue in the same form. It is, in fact, there. Consider the summer camp of the disabled and the fact that a firm will has been made available to representatives of the Union in order to continue operating camps. I'd like to ask you what. A senator's details. How does he envision this work, and how will it become part of the public university? There's really nothing more to talk about here. Has it been implemented or thought more? I find this interesting, but I need a little more information to include in the commission work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u65	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir That clear question is a very good Steinunn to Árnadóttir. Often, as in this case, you try to connect a number of factors to make them work. I can only see when the question arises that this aspect of the report could have been considered better. This is because it is not directly involved in the public colleges as such or in the work being done there but in the practical use of the material available and of interest. We can recall that the University of Sports was there in his day, and when he moved to Reykjavík, he needed a job to use his resources. The number of students who were there went away, and it's always hit by smaller communities. And the summer camp in Dingings Valley was lying down, and this has more to do with the construction. Of course, it's a wonderful facility on Lake Saturday for such a summer camp, so even while the school is not active, it can be used effectively. I only see it when it's right. One senator asks that these matters have had to be thoroughly reviewed in a report, since the suggestion is to link together some of the different factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u66	Mr. President. I appreciate that answer. Yes, of course, it is very good to make use of the resources available, but I think this can give us a chance to see if there is any further application here. I believe that rather than the lack of a study opportunity, people in Iceland as well as those who were disabled and disabled have a wide range of studies. I think this idea can be taken even further. If we come to another level to the conclusion that it is a good idea to get this public university, there is some thread that we should look at even more. I think there's a lot more to get out of it than just some use of human activities.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u67	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A gentleman in question later in answer. We are in the process of designing the curriculum in the spirit of public college. I think this is a great idea, and of course nothing is excluded. It's often that way when you start off with such an idea after a conversation with someone like Iceland's Juvenile Association that it can develop in any direction. It would, then, be in the spirit of the culture of society to link it further. I think so, and I can't wait to see what it's all about. A top-of-the-art Board of Education on these issues and on the same basis getting reviews from these sources. It is often that you start off with a matter, and then time goes by. This often happens a little slow, but as I said, it's already been made up, but I haven't told you yet. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u68	A respectable president. I'm one of the couriers of this proposal, so I support it wholeheartedly, but I think it's important to talk to each other. An authority on the student group who is likely to attend such schools and perhaps even the existing public schools in the country. It was made clear by a General and Education Committee at 145th when it was discussed that legislation on the function of the People's Colleges was suggested that studies at the public university could promote the general learning of young people, provide students with opportunities to find their strengths and improve students' learning and skills in various ways. I'd like to ask you what. An authority on whether we have any diagnostics or studies on which group of students would be likely to attend such schools in the country. It is known that some 100 Icelandic students are studying at the National High Schools each year, so it is possible to consider whether the student group would look at a school within the country or whether we are watching another student group, even if it would be desirable to have students from other countries to attend here, just as our students would go elsewhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u69	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir's theory, my associate on the case, this question. Yes, it is important to think about this. I think the answer may have been in question. A senator, a student from here, has been diligent in attending school abroad. In Denmark, gymnasium schools have been particularly popular. Iceland's youth society is very interested in doing such a school here, just because it's very interested in attending such schools abroad and they're popular. There are about 45 public schools in Denmark, and many who focus on sports, outdoors, and public health studies. The information I have, then from Iceland's Teenager Association, suggests that there is no need to be afraid that there will be no demand for study. I think a mixture of students from here who would have the chance to choose between different schools with different emphasis here and abroad so that a good mixture would be both desirable. I'm not afraid there will be a demand for this school, considering the interest that has been for such school purposes so far. We can also ask ourselves, " Do I have too many schools? ' I don't think so. All these schools have very different priorities. I think there's a full need for one sports-related public college. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u70	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson respond. I agree that it is very important to have diversity in the public ministry if we have three different schools, but I also believe it is important that there are more than one person, simply to ensure specific quality and professional skills in the work in this country. We spent a long time with one functional public college, and I think there was a great weakness at the time that there was only one school in the country. In the LungA School of Seypsy, a high percentage of students have come from abroad, and I think that's good. I think it's good to mix in these schools. I wanted to direct another question to why. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson son of Thor, as to the concept of the use of peoples or public schools, is the subject of Willum's term. [[The president calls.]] To me, a high school has a long history in Icelandic language and, at least, at least. I've known each other a long time. [[The president calls.]] Has a what? A senator's opinion of this?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u71	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's question. I was just seeing this change in the Constitution, and because I have it right here, I get to read the description, by permission of the president: ▪ In view of the fact that the term "high school" is legally protected for institutions that have been approved by the Minister of Education and Culture under Article 3. track No. 63/2006, about a university, is suggested to use the term "Living School." The bill deals with the legal status of a public school school system, recognition, and responsibility for their work. As far as I'm concerned, I'm not in the process of finding out about this change, but in the discussion, it all turns out.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u72	A respectable president. Here we will discuss the establishment of the National Institute of Youth Society in Iceland on Lake Saturday, which includes hiding a minister of education and culture ordering a team to organise there the culture of Iceland's Hungarian Youth Association. The group even took over. Based on the ongoing work of law at the National Institutes of People, the Use of Mansicists and Schools on Lake Saturday, on the business of Iceland's Youth Company, studies of the elimination of students from high schools, and experience in the establishment and management of other public schools in this country, especially in Flatus and Sunsaver. In North countries, peoples are a major part of the education system and have a long history. Many foreigners have gone to school over the decades and have still done so. Research on the activities and achievements of the public schools shows unequivocal results for individuals and communities. They are dramatized schools where students can choose to study from many different subjects, which are often closely associated with society. People's schools are not exams. Rather, their emphasis is on participation in creative, artistic, social, and professional articles. There are many valid reasons why people's schools are missing out on Icelandic education. These institutions have been on the move for over 100 years in the North countries, and research has shown profit in both economic, social, and cultural terms. Thus, there is great benefit in supporting the construction of these schools in Icelandic education. In Iceland, public schools can be a powerful answer to some of the challenges faced by the Icelandic educational system but will also become important local and national institutions. In this country, they are taking their first step, as is indicated by the action of the Parliamentary decree. In 2013, LungA, a school founded, is a People's School, a operating place in Sufficiency, and a scholarship from public and private agencies as well as from schools. It highlights self - examination through art and creative work. Much good work has been done there. In the autumn of 2018, this fall, the People's School of Flattage began its work. There are two different ways of study that each receives at a maximum of 20 students, and I think there are now 38 or 39 students there. The second study route is based on local strengths, i.e. Society, nature, and culture, but the other study route is based on ideas and creation. The school uses damaged facilities in the village for its activities. In the autumn, I had the joy of attending the graduation of the University of Flatney for the People, and I experienced a certain brand in the community that has been under attack for the past ten years. It was like the village that was falling asleep. A respectable president. There is no law on public college here, but it is assumed that the bill of the material to be discussed in the People's Schools Act will come from the Ministry of Education in March. As mentioned above, the term is suggested to change from public college to public school, which I don't intend to evaluate here. The bill is about the legal status of a public school system, recognition, and responsibility for their activities. Is it well, because I think this addition to the rest of the education institutions in this country is the answer to some of the factors that we're dealing with. Tomorrow will be, for example. Special discussions about the problems of young boys, and I think this is a factor that could make them feel better, as well as many others. I went and examined the 20 - year - old students from over 60 years of age at the University of Peoples of Flattu. The width is high, both in education and in skill, and there are both high school and academic education. I think there's two academics. Then there are those who have never gone to high school, and some who have escaped from it up and who have had trouble with their feet. The width is strong, and its strength is wide. A respectable president. With the approach of the EEA on Lake Saturday, there is an opportunity for the establishment of a youth camp to ensure that various projects are not being stopped nor can they continue in the same form. You can, for example, do so. mention short trips, meetings, meetings, sports and teenage associates, and especially the summer camp of the Italian Socialist Association. As noted by whiskers. paritaprevir For example, the Árnadóttir Þóra Aarnadottir may be able to make this feature a little more elaborate and take a look at it. Hv. A senator entered interesting points that I think may be considered in more detail in this subject, which will then take place in the commission work. I think this is a good thing that we can be proud to move here, and I hope it works out as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u73	Mr. President. We will discuss a proposal for a resolution on the establishment of the National Institute of Youth in Iceland on Lake Saturday. In the beginning, I want to thank you for what I said. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson in advance and, indeed, to other members of the council who have participated in their discussion. It's nice to hear how positive they are, because I think the foundation here is a pretty good deal. I think that going this so - called public college route would be an excellent way to respond to the appeal that has been a little in the community on a variety of ways of learning, on ways that may not have found its strength in what we will call a general education system, a way to strengthen and improve. I can agree with what. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson in that it is important that this issue be followed by a law that has been established only in many cases. Senators. In fact, I think we should stick to the high school term, and I don't see that this kind of school is called an old and good word in Icelandic language, and it's not a traditional college. He is not a university student but, at the top of a university of life, and he does not forbid people to talk about the university of life. People are totally allowed. I'd like to know, and I'd like to have a good time. A committee might take it into consideration and learn how, and in what way, public schools will help their students to get into conventional studies or whether graduates of public schools will be more likely to get their feet in the traditional educational systems. I don't think that there is in itself some goal of public college, not at all, but I think it is important to know this, and that it is beneficial for us as a community to know this, especially in terms of understanding the benefits that this will eventually bring to the community. It must be the goal of one side and the other to yield to the benefits of the individuals involved. I also think it's important. A General and Education Committee considered the approach of Icelandic students to schools such as these, whether a university education would be loanable like another study, even calling a representative of the loan fund to discuss it, as well as a rating if there were any. Thus, it is possible to wonder whether it is necessary for many public schools or for many public university departments in Iceland. I think whether we have it all under the hat of one public college or not, it's important that there's a few divisions, that they're in different places and have different ways of studying. I've been so lucky in the fall that I've had the opportunity to study both the colleges that are already active, i.e. ... inFlatuseandSeysend,and nothing but positive about them. I agree with what. paritaprevir The Charm of Halla's Kristjánsdóttir, who came into the past, in a sense, how Flatty had come to life when the school was put to the test and that this assignment was actually accomplished. Then it is our responsibility here to ensure that, as the government continues, we will see that, i.e. The General legislature, the legislature board, for this type of study in legislation and its support, as well as for its subsequent support from the World Council of Congress. I look forward to seeing this later in the winter of the second year.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u74	Mr. President. I would like to express my pleasure with a suggestion that a minister appoint a group of workers who are expected to organize the establishment of the National Institute of the Young American Society of Iceland, who will have settled on Lake Saturday. This is a great act of joy. The report is that there is a member of the staff sitting by a local representative, i.e. Blue-forward development, as well as from Iceland's Teenage Association, which will ensure the arrival of the local people to the project as well as the school manager. The premise for the project to get normal progress is also, as shown in a report, that working on a bill for a People's School song will be completed as soon as possible so that this new form of school here on the land will be assigned to an appropriate setting in our school system, hopefully to the north. That's what you'd think. In addition, this proposal is to be celebrated in the area so that there will be the preferred and better use of local workers, on Lake Saturday, and also a project designed to further improve the growth of Lake Sugar and the return as a schoolhouse, as the place has been for a long time. Of course, this is also one step in building a wide variety of activities in the scattered areas of the country. This project, in my opinion, has many positive aspects. Only to eliminate students from high school. The problem of elimination has long been high in the high school system here, and it has to be handled and resolved. One thing is, of course, to offer our young people more ways, and the operation of public schools is clearly one step in that direction. This will also help us to see what the general setting will be like at such schools, local public schools, how the law will be adjusted. I mention, for example. each target group of this school would be most likely considering that the reality of young people in Iceland is far different from that in the other North countries. They have been eager to decide their future longer than their peers in other northern countries. I look to it as a new and novel way of teaching around here, with this institution and therefore to celebrate. As the report shows, the question has been made. Early members of this discussion have had such experiments in Sufficiency for five years and recently in Flattu. All of this is built up by powerful activity in the country, and I'm especially glad to hear it. People's high school has many benefits. It allows students to think calmly, so to speak, more calmly than in traditional schools. There is also an even greater need to draw closer to the student groups, between teachers and students, and there they offer specific conversations. I'm especially glad to hear it. There is one way to prevent a major problem that we face in the country, the drop - down problem, and the problem that we're about to discuss tomorrow, the problem of young men. They don't seem to know properly which leg to take, many of them, where to go, and where to find a place. I'm so happy for this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u75	A respectable president. I just wanted to introduce the matter to you about the establishment of the National Institute of Youth in Iceland on Lake Saturday. There's been a lot of things, some speculations about schools, names, etc. No doubt there can be a long debate over this, and there is reason to complete the campaign adopted at the council when the future and future were imminent. paritaprevir St Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's irony insisted that such schools be put on law. I think it's a really good school plan. I have been to the school of LugA in Seyndir, where there have been a number of tremendous contributions and a great vision work over the years. But because we haven't made the schoolwork laws, we constantly have to communicate with the legislature, try to gain strength, and so forth, instead of deciding how we are going to do school work. As mentioned in the discussion, this is important, the variety in the school cover is important. A 2012 report by the Ministry of Education and Culture, entitled All Study and Work, by permission of Presidents: To meet the different needs and expectations of students and to cultivate and maintain their interest, the study needs a variety of teaching methods and modern productions of study material in elementary and high school. It is important to encourage students in their researchal and solutions and contribute to the initiative, criticism, and creative work of students. New media, which students use outside school, must be used to instill their interest in the study and increase the wide range of projects, such as in the form of multimedia.◯ Of course, this was true of a number of high school schools today, and it can be said that the university that has been conducted as a professional, LungA, may have been more in between high school and college, so it was not a decent attempt to embrace it. The people who have come to the public schools here in the country, both in Flattation and in the East, along with the Ministry, have worked around the laws I have only windows in. Actually, there should be no neglect in finishing that case, so we can put our arms around the establishment of a people's university on Lake Saturday, in which way it also goes on the budget. I mentioned earlier that while there is strength in having variety in school and school, there are productive schools in a number of high school schools. I come from one of them, the University of High School of the Grinch, and I'm tired of telling about him. It is a three - year study in which there is not much major testing and other factors; there is a vast variety of school activities and a great deal of creative work and opportunity in there. The students who have graduated from school and then at college have been doing well despite three years of study, but the school was formed that way. Despite the fact that students of the school did not have to put up with a terrible long test in every father, they have done well in what they have taken in, those who have graduated from school, and then they have completed their university education. It is important to remember that the formulations differ. People's public schools have had a similar setting, a close connection with their professional life, and often the rural communities in which they live. In fact, we have taken the arrangement as a model in Denmark, where we know the most about it, and we first heard it, but the law has prevented us. I don't need to have very many words to say about this, but I'm very anxious for a variety of people to go to school. It's like a whisk. The last speaker spoke earlier, an opportunity for many who may not have found themselves elsewhere, for people of different ages. The students I've talked to, e.g. who have attended a study in the LungA, Seysters, just say: It saved my life to get this chance, not to be out of work and shutting me behind a computer or to do something bad. It was a way I found it and it has been a good way for me. People experience community, because they take care of themselves. It's a home, just a bigger home, but it comes from a lot. So I strongly support the idea and really hope that it will be the highest. Minister to handle the case. I also hope that the General and Education Committee, which gets the case, will call to know the state of the legal environment and if it is to be expected, it is not in the Senate now, the next fall, so that there is no need for any proposals to be made to a financial committee every year, both in the case of FluIIy School and the LungA. I see in the suggestion that there is a proper order of doing things and that there is a legal environment. I'm glad we have a vision, and we take it in our arms, trying to establish more people's schools. Clearly, this autumn business has come to be and has already paid a great deal for rural society and for those who have applied for and who are now students. You can see the news of the people who like this stay very well. I think it's something we're supposed to do more than less.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u76	A respectable president. I'm like other senators who have taken up this fine case to celebrate it and talk about the importance of the diversity that I think we need in our education and the services we have at different educational opportunities. I think it is also important to think about the future in these matters. We are very happy to hear that we are today training our children for employment that we may not know who we are. I think most people agree today that we need to improve the skills of people first and not an external education or something like that, as our previous educational systems often went on. Then perhaps the key is when we talk about the fourth industrial revolution and all that may be changing over the years to consider that there may be a primary skill in future relationships. I had a fine morning meeting at the Industrial Association today that discussed professional policy and obviously you can't discuss Iceland's employment policy any other than getting into academic terms because these are closely related factors. That is exactly where an unwanted large percentage of Icelanders have not gone to more than basic school or elementary school. That is why I agree with what has happened to more people that public schools can be the very opportunity for people who have not found themselves within the formal educational system, but I also believe that they are an opportunity for much more. V.E.G. The prime minister remarked at this meeting this morning, when this case was being discussed, about the fourth industrial revolution and the future, that some Norwegian study had found that the only work that would definitely exist in the future were hairdoing and yoga. I don't know if it's true, but at least I think it's all about communication. Hv. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, the first member of this synonym, discussed the proposed bill that we may have waited for for for a while regarding the public university. I wondered, " Is it really opening up this school level or this ideologies that it might flow a little between school points? ' Perhaps the idea behind a social school is not that he is on a certain level, so we may need to take a little action from that discussion. Then I'd like to mention that there is also an approved pact proposal from the Westnoric Council on Postschool, as it is said. Then there is an example of dancing in which we are in some sort of high school, and we are always accustomed to putting these schools into school. So the Conspiracy proposal went out to commit the Ministry of Education to explore these possibilities, and it has been of great interest to our members in the Faeroe Islands and Greenland to build up such schools, especially when the Greenlands have been interested in this. I understand that many green youths especially go to Denmark for this postschool that is popular there, as the peoples have been. The answer we received from the Ministry of Education in the Westnorological Council was somewhat as if it were more trying to simplify the school system in this country than the other thing so that they didn't really think it would be so well. I'd like to mention this here because I'd be very interested in talking to each other. The General and Education Committee, when discussing People's Schools, can you look to this application of a post-school citation proposal? It may also come to another aspect that I made in answer to the prime speaker about the languages and possibilities, as I put it in some form of exporting to education when we look into cooperation with other nations. Perhaps there is some basis for offering training in a foreign - language field or at some course at such schools to open up the opportunities and others to attend the school. Then I'll come into another show I mentioned in reply. I think they're all down. Congress officials who have joined these forces have extolled the ideologies behind the university of the people. I think we all agree that this is quite reasonable, and we want young people to find a way. Of course, on the basis of this, the costs and costs of the State are always focused on when we discuss such schools. That is why I think it is inevitable to wonder when this synopsis proposal is taken up on the committee. I think it is also very important that the proposed People's School bill be performed, and it will be handled safely how the government will come at the expense of these schools. Everybody's admired and talked about the opportunities in this, and I agree completely with that. I think there's a huge opportunity in a wide variety of educational institutions in this country, and the public schools are sure to agree. I also believe that the State is entitled to participate in education, but of course, it is normal to believe that there is some form of education. As we open to new schools with new ideologies, we need to ask ourselves, " Am I taking away other schools or how this is supposed to be done? ' It has been able to see an exciting individual's efforts in both the east and the west of the public university. There, powerful individuals have been supported by groups and businesses at the construction site that is good, but I don't think we can see that these are members of some kind of sceptre, which they are and have been, different from that they get some solid land under their feet, and that it's a little clear how the state's going to participate in these costs. We can't expect such powerful people who have these ideas to come here every year with some prayer letter to the branch office. I think it is very important that this discussion be taken along as we try to find some agreement around how it should be handled. Then I'd also like to mention what I've also wondered about in relation to the people's colleges that are already active outside this one on Lake Saturday whether this is also a settlement. It is natural to say that geographic language is all - out, and education is a major part of it. In the case of some very fragile communities, I'm just referring to it in general, not necessarily the definition set up by a living agency around it, I don't doubt that the importance of such an institution being employed, I'm referring to Flatty in this case or in Lake Saturday, as discussed in this synonym, is of great importance to this structure. So I think it may just as well be looked at when we discuss a ground plan and the funds we put in our settlements whether these institutions or those wands have any place under it. No wonder I rejoice when powerful individuals, businesses, or organizations are interested in operating as important institutions as schools are, but I want to reiterate how important it is that the state has some form of law and he is fair when it comes to financing. In this speech, I allow myself to mention, for example. the position in which the film school is in which individuals have developed a very powerful study of a very specific field but are in a particular business problem. The Ministry is completely out of policy on these matters. As I told you before, I'm celebrating this Senate arrangement, and I'm very excited about it. I just want to reiterate that we have a clear policy in these matters so that those involved in such a operation and such ideologies know something about what they're going to do when it comes to financing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u77	V.E.G. President. I'd like to be happy to have a conquistador proposal for the establishment of the National College of Iceland on Lake Saturday. I'm so lucky I'm allowed to be one of the movers with what? paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson, who has drawn the wagon to that work. The proposal is to assign the Minister of Education and Culture to appoint a team as an organized establishment of the National Institute for Youth in Iceland on Lake Saturday. The minister decides the order of the task force, which, at least, sits in it. one representative of Iceland's Teenage Association and one from the Blue Forest. The group even takes over. Based on existing work at the National College Actual Network, the Use of People's College, the Use of Mansion and the School in Lake Saturday, on the business of Iceland's Summer National Institutes, studies of the elimination of students from high schools, and experience with the establishment and management of other peoples's schools here, especially at Flatuse and Sunfalls. On May 31, 2019, the staff submitted their conclusions to a minister. It is an important but precious task, and it is proposed, although the situation is that there are no laws for public schools in this country. It is very important that there will be a clear and clear letter and that the minister of education will be working on a bill for the People's College Act in Iceland and then a Norwegian role model. Most of us know the arrangement for such schools in the North countries, and we have visited them in the matter. In the case of the proposal to put a law frame around such schools, the aim is to make public schools an approved choice in the educational system, which is legally supported and supported by the public, according to the introduction of the report by the proposal. According to it, a minister is assigned to submit a bill at the latest in the spring council of 2017. That time has not been right, but the bill is currently working on the social law at the Ministry. The task force to organise the establishment of a public college on Lake Lava should observe and take into account the agreement of national lawgivers in their profession. It is important that all of these work together. We have some experience with the management of public schools here. I would like to mention the school of LugA, which was founded on Sundjar, 2013, and is employed there. What a thrill it has been to see how things have worked out! The school has been fired on sponsors from public and private sources as well as on whether students pay their school fees. The school puts emphasis on self - opinion through art and creative work. It is safe to say that there has been a great deal of work there. This activity has colored society, students enter and mark the community, which is positive because it increases the life cover of schools. I suppose such a thing has also happened in Flats, where the People's School began in the fall of 2018. The study there is presented in a slightly different way than in the LungA, though not so different. There are two different lines of study that each take to a maximum of 20 students. The second course of study is based on local strengths, i.e. Society, nature, and culture, but the other route is based on ideas and creation. The school uses damaged facilities in the village for its activities. This I think is a very positive injection for the local community and positive to see it happen. We often talk about the school language as a major factor, but of course it has to do with all of this. Like what? paritaprevir The case of the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir involved both local and commercial matters. Such activities include jobs, extramarital activities, and a number of jobs. It is precious to us when we talk about our business affairs throughout the country. Then there's the settlement. We increase the variety of jobs, we expand the job area, and then we may also open young people's eyes to places they would not have visited if the schools weren't there. It has even caused people to settle down. This has opened the way for people and ideas to develop about something people just didn't know existed. It's so remarkable that most of us are actually very small, so it's very positive. It also states that the U.S.A. highlights the order of events and the first step, as I did earlier. An interest has been observed in the establishment of a people's university on Lake Lava, with the development of educational authorities and the settlements of the Blue Forest. THE EEA has already formed a team of cooperation at a community college in Denmark, which is ready to contribute to preparation and implementation, as there is a rich tradition for public schools in Denmark and elsewhere in the North, and it is not unusual that we look to the role models there and work out what has been well experienced by humans there. U.S.A. has run a juvenile camp at the pools of Candy Valley for many years. We parents of the many children who have gone there know that there is good experience in this work. They live in school groups, children in 9th grade, nearly a week with teachers, and they are at the same time taken out of their usual environment. This place has been very much sought after, and it is a pleasure to meet your children in less than a week's time. Social skills, outdoors, and modern technology experience have been emphasized, which is a significant challenge for modern - day children and would even benefit many of us adults. They're doing all their jobs in informal school, just like they did in public college. What I would most like to stress in my speech, as soon as I celebrate the conduct of the matter, is polymorphism in school. We need to be flexible. We always know that there is a group that has not found their numbers but is full of talent. Individuals may have some frame, a specific period of time, and an opportunity will open up. I'd like to talk about Hallorm's Housewives School. I can't really say anything. There's been an amazing job there, and there are people of various ages. I think it's safe to say that the most skilled chefs in the country have had the pleasure there, so it certainly hasn't corrupted them. There are various threads. The main advantages of the public schools are to work there from other emphasises and objectives than from traditional studies of literature and learning. The emphasis is on culture, self - culture, and the active participation of students. I think this is really important because it is growing up too large a group of people who have never been involved in any social activity, not in any sort of voluntary work that doesn't know this form of society. I think it may be extremely good to be allowed to come to a place like this, to experience a particular community, to be a part of a household, to think about yourself, and to take into consideration others in an environment other than what people are accustomed to everyday. Perhaps it would be good for all of us to have the opportunity to try. As the report shows, for students who do not know which direction they want to go and for young people who have slipped out of school, a high school is a good middle school. We know very well that it has helped many, as it has been so many times today, but it may well be appropriate for someone to attend such a school that will then be relevant to someone else, no matter what circumstances. They do not necessarily have to be that people are in trouble. I think the proposal is very good, and I would like to thank a 1st convergence for putting it out. I think it's a good step to raise the flea in our school system. As noted by the effect of going to a public college, there has been a significant positive influence in connection with the loss of school. It is a serious situation that we face, and even if we did not achieve that goal, it would be of great value.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u78	V.E.G. President. In view of a positive discussion on the subject, I was moved to come up and thank you for helpful suggestions on the subject from then on. Congress members who participated in the discussion face - to - face with the debate and then on the subject. Hv. A number of factors that are relevant to the nature of a community university and many other points that would be very appealing to draw together were made by members of Parliaments. Perhaps there is a subject for a speech other than that of a young man. paritaprevir Hjaltason Gautiçin noted here that it was time to strengthen the Lake Sugar again as a schoolhouse. I can say with what. Senator. He also stated that this addition to the Icelandic education system alone is involved in preventing elimination. The reality is that in the United States, youths may be making a decision longer, often knowing between them as to what we are doing on this road. That was what many called others why. Senators. Hv. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir came into this private enterprise. I can say with what. A senator, whether he is a member of the Iceland Youth Association or a group of people who have the initiative and start this kind of operation, we should activate it and encourage it. It also highlights what was evident in the language of everyone. Councilmen here, the importance of completing the general law of public college in Iceland. The General Assembly agreed in 2015 to the decree of the then future. paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's case, where it was intended for a management ground to be ensured by the north. That was the point, and then it's been three years, and the people out there with all their power can't wait forever for us. If the Senate arrangement goes to such an extent that we accept it, which I hope, and set out a working group to set up a community college on Lake Saturday, it will pressure us to complete the general law that is of utmost importance. Hv. The nature and ideologies of a university were well established by members of Parliaments. In a paper with the case of the then - present - day Sheriff of Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir. The 2012 Department of Education, the 2012 Department of Education, was implemented by a member of the General Assembly and was conducted by each member of the Council of Education, a study and work that would be appropriate, where there is a need to increase the variety of teaching techniques, the modern presentation of study materials, meet the different needs of students, cultivate interest and enable students on their own grounds, stimulate initiatives and promote critical thinking and creative work, use new media, and use the multimedia form in the production of projects. There is no mention of a university of people, yet the subject is actually describing the nucleus of the philosophy of peoples' schools. I just wanted to finish my speech by saying it out and thanking everyone. Councilmen for practical and practical tips.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u79	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to correct a change in the laws of Iceland's national flag and national shielding, No. 34/144, with subsequent changes. The movers, in addition to this, are Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunulsson, Anna Kolbrún of the Árnadóttir, Bergþór Ólason, Gunnar Sveinsson Sólsson, Jónsson Sigurður, Sigursson, Sólstein Sæmundsson, Ólafur Ísleifsson, and Karl Hjaltason Einar. In 1st. The bill says: ▪ At 7th. There's a new sentence that'll be 1. mgr., as follows: The flying flag will be drawn on poles every day of the year at the General Assembly Hall, the Board of Directors and the National Supreme Court of Iceland. 8 o'clock in the morning and stay with her until the day. 21 at night. The flag of Iceland's President shall be dragged to the pole of his office and his office in Reykjavík at the same time and remain as long as it is. This flag shall shine in the winter. Two. The bill says: ▪ This law goes into effect on December 1, 2018 The bill was previously transferred to the 148th legion (459th case) but was not completed and is now reassigned. The bill is suggested to fly every day of the year from the end of the year. 8 o'clock in the morning. 21 evening at the constructions of the three arms of the government, as well as the construction of the office of the President of Iceland, i.e. I'm at the President's President's President's and Office on Sun Island Avenue. In addition, the flag is suggested to be lit up in the wintertime. Transporters suggest that this change will take place on December 1, 2018, when 100 years have passed since Iceland became a free and sovereign state, but the flag became a national flag that day. As evidence of this, she was taken to the Board of Management's flag on Sunday, December 1, 1918, when the federal law went into effect. Mr. President. The country's interest in the history of the Icelandic flag has increased somewhat this year, according to the number of queries that have received the scientific web of the University of Iceland. The increase in interest is likely to be related to the sovereignty anniversary and is well pleased. By enunciation of the Union on December 1, 1918, Danir accepted Iceland's sovereignty. On that day at noon, a split flag was drawn to a sheaf on the Board of Staff Bar, as mentioned earlier. Such a flag is also a pale flag, but it is a different word for a fork or a pitchfork. The flag that was drawn on December 1, 1918, was the same as we use today, i.e. Clear blue with a white cross and a haired cross inside a white one. In fact, the blue was lighter than we were used to, and it did not get darker until 1944. The colors of the flag were discussed in a royal decision published on November 30, 1918. The same colors had also been identified in a royal order since July 19, 1915. The rendering was one of two so - called flag committees in 1913. That flag had Matthías first shown nine years earlier in a meeting in the city of Reykjavík, September 27, 1906Þórðarson by the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of New York. An article in the October 12, 1906, issue of Awake! It describes the flag of Matthías's flag and explains the meaning of the colors. By permission of the President: In his meeting, Matthías Þórðarson showed a beautiful flag he had drawn up. It was a white cross in blue fur with a red cross in its center and was to represent a mountain blue, ice, and fire. It was the best thing for humans to do with these flags and to think that we are very likely to get along with each other in choosing it. - This information can be found on the board of directors and the science web of the University of Iceland. If we compare ourselves with many other nations, we have had rather rigid rules regarding the era of flags and the use of the flag in general. According to the European Union Boy Scouts, respect for the flag has grown and the population has begun to use it considerably more than it was. Yet, Icelanders use little of the flag, almost exclusively on days of only 12 a year, and at soccer games. The Boy Scouts have encouraged the use of the Icelandic flag. The Boy Scouts, in effect, are special guards of the flag, and thanks to that fact. It is the Boy Scout's assessment that the flag's position was growing stronger and positive. Our flag is beautiful and has no negative connections. In the context of this matter, consider what rules and traditions apply in our neighboring countries when it comes to the use of government buildings. In general, the season of flags is between the northern nations that the season since the flag is at hand. 8 o'clock in the morning. Twenty-one and there's a time limit in the bill. The king's palace in Sweden is flaunted every day and at the Assembly Hall. The flags are taken down at sunset, though not later than the clock. 21st In Norway, however, the flag is dragged down at sunset every day at the Great Assembly Hall. 21st Mr. President. Our independent campaign in Iceland also carried a battle for the Icelandic flag. Thus, it is a symbol of our independence and sovereignty. It is appropriate, as the 100th anniversary draws closer, that we make our flag more visible to the buildings of the three arms of the government, as well as to the construction of the President of Iceland. By flaunting all the days of the year at the General Assembly Hall, at the Management Board, the construction of Iceland's Supreme Court, as well as the construction of the President of Iceland, we are showing greater respect and increase its path - the same respect that we show our country, nature, and culture. So said, Mr President, I'm referring the case to what. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u80	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's well - arranged history, in many respects productive and interesting. I myself have been a great amateur of flags and other national symbols for a long time, since studying history at Iceland's University, specifically discussing nationalism and other such matters. Well, maybe I would've stayed short. A senator if he'd put in a bill to pick up a white blue, I'm more impressed with that flag. But I suppose we share in the belief that this shall not be returned with the choice of a people's flag, regardless of what our opinion of the white man is. I wanted to ask you what. A senator's definition of at least one word in this bill. It says, with the permission of the president: The flag shall shine in the winter. I made a great quick search on the Internet so-called "whether there was a definition of the word short of soon, " and I could not find it. I wondered if this was clear enough, when. A member of the congregation believes that it is necessary to light up these flags, whether it will be the assessment of each overseer when the winter is started or when it will be bright enough to turn off descriptions, or if there is any specific time on what I have neglected to find in memory, again, I repeat, search. Then there's an order to fly the flag at the office of the President of Iceland and at his office. I raised that question at what? A senator if he cannot follow the example of the British, who are a nation of great flags and flagrants when the president is at home.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u81	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer and excellent tip on how to define the winter. What is the winter, and when does the winter begin? I'm sure this will be discussed within the committee, whether it is necessary to define it further, but I am sure that it is from sunset. In the winter, when the sun sets at about four o'clock, for example, the flag will be enlightened from time to time. Twenty-one when you take it down. I quickly see this done in this way, but I'm sure it'll be discussed within the committee and she'll see if there's something more needed to define it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u82	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's reaction to my indication. As I came into it, the definition may be rather vague. We talk about winter depression, which can last for a long time, many months, when it comes to wintertime. ▪ In the winter, it wanted to happen' that the most successful men, who now wrote Megas, were allowed by the president. If we are putting something in a song, it is often good to be just a little clear with what we mean and thank you. A senator for the good response. I didn't hear you. A senator answered my idea that we made the customs of other nations, such as the British, to flaunt the nation's highest office when they were at home, as the British do. ... witha queenof England. There's a flash when she's there. There should be a flag up here all year, no matter what the operation is or the person is in the house. A respectable president. Hv. A senator also made it clear that we used the flag less than any other nation. I suppose, but not that I have considered it specifically, when it was so. A senator is right in that. I wondered if a part of it can be a strict flag. We have not only very strict rules about when to flaunt the flag but also how to use the flag, e.g. for advertising production products, etc. I wonder what. A senator predicted that perhaps this is one part of the reason. If we want more of the flag - which are certainly different opinions and personal, I'm not particularly nationalistic, but I'm interested in discussing these matters - I'm wondering if. A senator believes that we may need to relax regarding the general use of the flag for various purposes other than simply drawing it to design. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u83	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. I want to agree with him that we use the flag too little.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u84	I said...
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u85	In any case, it said that it would be necessary to increase its use, I hope it would. A senator is on that line or he will be on that line later. Hv. A senator may wonder, " Is the law too strict, and this may cause the flag to be used relatively little in comparison with other nations? ' It might be right to a certain extent. Senator. There's also another thing that I think I'm playing in there, there's some kind of swamp, if you can put it that way, about the flag that's not right. I think, for example. that there's something about people thinking that if the flag touches the ground, it must be burned. This is one of those swamps that are running and are wrong. However, the flag that is dirty or torn, etc., should not be flaunted, as the law shows. This might, for example, be part of the lack of greater use of the flag, a misunderstanding as to what is to be done and what is not to be done, and probably a review of it. I see in itself no reason to compromise these laws as such, but the bill goes on, and we transporters are about to use the flag more and have more respect for it by peeling it every day on these buildings that I mentioned here. Of course, it's just around the corner. The flag is used by a senator in Britain when the monarch is present, but this bill goes beyond that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u86	V.E.G. President. We're here on bill to legalize the laws of Iceland's national flag and national shielding laws. It has to do with, as it says here, that every day of the year, on the pole, at the General Assembly Building, and at the Iceland Supreme Court. 8 o'clock in the morning and stay with her until the day. 21 at night. The flag of Iceland's President shall be dragged to the pole of his office and his office in Reykjavík at the same time and remain with it for as long. This flag shall shine in the winter. It's fine. They're increasing the use of the flag. It's also good that this is definitely professional. When the flags are on the weather in Iceland, we often have to split up because we don't want to use broken, ruined, and dirty flags. That's great. It is, however, always an assessment when to light up and when to wait, but most of us know pretty much when it appears to be dark. You can also have studied, it's worked very well. But I'm coming up here because it's such a good thing. The media have spoken for many years of similar talk and have advocates so that I can only share in this discussion. It was also about when he was supposed to be Flooded and when he was not to be and how all of it is to be done. This is all very similar, and I do not have a reminder in view of the discussion that was here today whether they had been contacted by the forward movement party who made this issue. I'm afraid nothing to say about it. Here is a good progress, and I'm glad we can discuss the matter on a broad basis. All of us continue to take care of our flag and respect it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u87	V.E.G. President. I just come up here to express my pride in being on this case and to rejoice that it will draw more attention than I expected, but often, little you will roll heavy loads. I think it's a good thing, not just because we're supposed to have our national flag visible, but because we're also part of a nation. It has not been given much sound foundation over the past few years that we can boast that we, all of us as a nation, are proud to be Icelanders, and have been proud of what we are in and have been since our becoming an ideal nation. We've been going through a very difficult time that had a 10-year anniversary the hard time I'm thinking about when I say this. At that time, we've often talked down a little bit, many of them, and we've talked about being just a bunch of stirs in some piece of piece to the north of the world. I don't think that's a good word. I am very proud to be an Icelander and to be a member of this sovereign nation. The independence struggle we faced, or the previous ones, was not necessarily a matter. It was a great battle, and it took much effort. I think it's very good to have the Icelandic flag as the most visible flag in the places that appear on the bill and enlightened in the winter. As shown in the talk of a messenger, the nations around us, which we compare with, are proud to know and work with, their laws so that they have their flags visible. I don't think we should do anything to them. I'm not gonna put a word out of this any further, I just believe this case is gonna get paid and that we can flaunt the 1st of December.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u88	Mr. President. I thank a first missionary speech that included a very helpful tour of this matter, which I consider very important and very appropriate for the anniversary of the sovereignty. What a wish it would be that before the birthday of December 1, the General would have made such a decision! How satisfying it is to discuss such a beautiful, vital national symbol! He touches a string in our hearts. You get to know it when you travel abroad or even have had the opportunity to live abroad, e.g. In the United States as I have done, how much is placed on the flag. The United States contributes a great deal from its flag, it is a tremendously united symbol of the American nation, and it is very common for people to have the American flag outside their home without any special motive. This has been a review, especially on the part of 1st. What customs are often practiced in our neighboring countries? He has made it clear that we may use the flag even to a considerable lower degree than what happens and walk among our neighbors. I believe it is a very good idea to recommend on the law that in these principal buildings of the three-arm social authority, the European Commission, of course, and the Council, except for the residence and office of the President of Iceland, the Icelandic flag remains with it every day. I am grateful and happy to be a associate of this bill. I believe that healthy ambitions for the people are natural, positive, and upbuilding in nature. Let our flag of Icelandic volleyball as often as possible, but at the same time let's decide that at the General Assembly, at the Council, in the Supreme Court, and in the residence of the president and in the office, we'll fly around every day.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u89	Mr. President. I thank the members of Parliament who participated in this discussion the fine talks presented here and the good minds that the senators have expressed toward this bill, which I really hope will receive a quick and effective payment at the General Assembly so that the law will be effective on December 1 on December as it is planned, on the sovereignty anniversary. I'm going to set things straight that I said in my transmission speech earlier. When I requested to refer the case to the General and Education Committee, I received a tip from the Conference Office that the matter should be addressed to the Board of Directors and Follow-up Committee. After that, I refer the case to the management and monitoring committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u90	V.E.G. President. December 1, 1918, marked the beginning of a free, sovereign state of Iceland - and became that day. I bring a story here on the bill to correct a law change of 40 hours' work week, no. 88/1971 on legal holidays. Transporters, along with the people here, are a reason. Councilmen Árnadóttir Kolbrún, Bergþór Ólason, Birgir son of Þórarinsson, Gunnar Sveinsson, Svínsson, Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Izzzal, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, and Sigurður Jónsson. This bill was previously transferred to the 148th legislature but was not granted. I would like to read the bill with the permission of the highest power. President. How Would You Answer? par.Unable to connect to POP ▪ Instead of the words "Counsels " and" June 17 / 15 " at 1 mg. Section 6. The law comes in June 17th and December 1st. 2.g. It reads: ▪ This law already comes into effect. As I said earlier, on December 1, 1918, the beginning of Iceland's becoming a sovereign and free state was marked. So many have claimed that that that day, i.e. On December 1, 1918, Iceland was on its own a far greater step in independence than June 17, 1944. June 17, 1944, was in itself a logical continuation because that day and its beginning were in itself in the contract that we already validated in 1918. As it happens, over the years this day has not been remembered by authority and has not been a public holiday for a very long time. Actually, I don't remember when it fell down. The University of Iceland and students have celebrated this day, and recently the university has placed special emphasis on those who have received a doctor's name and who have come together on this day. This year hundreds of events have been to remember that it has been 100 years since Iceland became an ideal state. It was the objective of those who were in charge of or arranged for a celebration - a special committee for this celebration - the celebration that the public has attended and participated in and worked on. On the other hand, the Council itself conducted a meeting meeting on July 18th. and then the government of Iceland will celebrate the celebration of December 1. This year that is passing, as I said earlier, hundreds of events have occurred all over the country. They have succeeded greatly all of whom this committee came to. Tens of thousands of Icelanders, if not more, have enjoyed these events. They have taken place, large and small, both self - serving and strengthened by the commission, in virtually every province of the country. It is natural that this should be handled properly. There may be something else that will be on the lookout for those who carry this bill. First of all, this day, i.e. December 1st, let us remember in the way that he deserves. And now at the end of the birthday year, there may not be much in itself to remind us that this festival was held. True, it has been published, and it must not be minimized, the product of the holiday novels. This will be followed by books on the conduct of December 1, 1918. Hopefully, they will become an informer of the public, so to speak, of the importance of this day and of the events that led to his having a solemn celebration at the time. We transporters feel that this is kind of the subject of December 1 each year as a general holiday so that we can all review this event, what it was for, and what the day means. We feel that in itself we owe those who felt pity during those years and up until this very day, on December 1, 1918, their memory and contributions, that it is at least a glorious year each. So this bill is submitted. The report says, with permission of the highest power. President: ▪ On law about 40 hours a week of work, No. 88/1971 is now, together with the holidays of the National Church, especially about four full days of vacation: summer on the first day, Monday of August (a day of mass trade), May 1 and June 17 of Iceland's Day. According to our movers, none of these days have produced as much basic changes in the history and life of the nation as the national sovereignty day of December 1, 1918, the day that marked the complete victory in Iceland's independence. That is why we now stress that this day will be a public holiday. At the time, when this case was last delivered, I remember people wondering whether it was an intervention in the agreement between the labour market partners. In itself, I cannot agree with that. At any given time, there is one way or another, much or little, depending on the event, making all sorts of changes that concern the labour market partners, and they have simply taken it into account and processed it between themselves. In itself, I do not feel that the Allied Council of Iceland should ask the labour market's so - called party if the General wants to put laws or change laws in the direction that holiday days will be growing about this one, but it is simply the task of the party to process the changes this bill, if it is a law, it is a law. It can also be said that there will be a very good opportunity, if the bill is the law, and December 1 will be a public holiday, for families to be together for a day, and to recall the independence struggle, what it has done. In itself, it is a mystery how this nation has broken down from poverty to wealth in the 100 years that have passed since its becoming an ideal state. There is in itself an urgent and powerful reason to rejoice that this stage would be reached at that time. I hope this case has a way through the council because we still have time for ourselves, which says in Article 2. that the law already comes into effect. We've recently demonstrated that we can outrun less law in one day if we want to. I'm not recommending it in this case, because of course we want to be careful about legislation. However, we still have time to legalize this bill before December 1, 2018, before our sovereignty becomes over 100 years old. I challenge the Senate to accept this matter so that it can be done. We have less than a month to make this happen. I think it would be in itself a very fitting end, if I could put it that way, on this birthday year, which has been so solemn in most places, that we could make this day be done from now on with the dignity he deserves by making it a public holiday in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u91	Mr. President. I think I can, in most things, agree with the purpose of this bill. I think we should honor December 1 of the future in the way suggested here. However, I have specific comments to the bill, even though I agree with its purpose, i.e. to make a general day of rest on December 1 in the same way as June 17th. I think there's just the same argument behind it, and I just think I'll say it. First messenger, Þorsteinn, Sæmundsson of Sólmund. What I would like to point out, however, is that, of course, we are making a decision to increase the cost of employment by adding one vacation day. We need to be aware that this is what we are doing. Especially when we look at it when we compare ourselves with other nations, such as. The holiday rights of the remuneration people here are considerably better than in most of our competitive countries. 28◯30 days are not uncommon. Besides, there are other holidays. They vary in number. For example. Christmas is less suitable or good for employees, how to get together on weekends and working days, etc., but it is about 11 to 12 days of the year that will be added to these holiday days. I wondered, " Is it really wise for tourists to think about, for example, whether it would be wise to do so? ' Then, on the first day of the summer, the motion is to adopt December 1 as a general day of vacation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u92	V.E.G. President. A brief answer to that question from what source. A senator I thank for is no. The movers have not intended to cancel any other day of vacation against the recording of that day. In my speech, I explained that we often use this hall to make decisions that change both the job and the employee's performance without making any special arrangements for them to miss different levels. I'll just mention one thing that's involved in the business that we here in the hall have changed many times, i.e. Don't worry, it's an insurance bill. It has a significant impact on the business. We make a lot of decisions like this. On the other hand, I pointed out that this bill in itself might fall well into the landscape that now appears to exist in e.g. The claim of the labor unions, including Talks about shorter hours and more time with families. I think this bill, if it's legal, might be an excellent part of that discussion. Thank you. The senator's sincere interest in the case and the support I felt I read out of his words, but so I repeat that, we don't have thought about it, and/or suggest that someone else's day would fall out of the picture.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u93	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. True, when we are making decisions, and we are right behind it. A senator, e.g. Of insurance fees, as mentioned here, it is either to increase or even lighten the load; I am usually trying to lighten the load rather than the other, and then we know pretty much what we're doing. Again, increasing the number of holidays brings cost. The cost must be given to someone, and it will be the companies and possibly to some extent employees or consumers, so it is clear. You see, I'm in favor of this, and I think it's really hard for us not to have December 1st as a general day off. I suggest your first summer day will be used for that, but okay, I'll be on second thought. To meet the inevitable cost of this, I wondered, " Do I have been through the thinking that has been prepared here in this chamber more than once and more than twice, that it may be wise to assume in law that it is permitted to bring legal holidays to sacred gatherings, men will not break the weeks of work apart? ' It's a public holiday on Wednesday, summer day 1 on Thursday, and it's back to work, and so on. It would be more family-friendly, and it is quite certain that it is more practical for the job to have holidays stuck on weekends, such as. is done in the United States.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u94	V.E.G. President. Transporters have not yet discussed whether or not holidays should be brought to weekends. I think of the first day of the summer in this context. We do not begin to present religious festivals, such as the celebration of the day or some. We won't. The other is so different, I'm well aware of that in many countries, e.g. In Britain, there are three weekends long every year if I remember correctly, I think there are three more than four of them, where men add Monday. But that may be the subject of others and more discussions. This step we would like to take, especially because this milestone is now imminent. In my speech earlier, I couldn't understand why. A welfare committee where I expect them to get a good, open shot. It may well be that the fine committee and more of it may want to, when working this case, to make some of the changes that may be needed. A senator suggested in his case. I think we just have to try. Above all, we feel that now is the time to legalize that this day is a public holiday because of the milestones we are living in now and to close the year by bringing about something that will remind us of the festival that we have observed all this year.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u95	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to legalize the law about a 40 - hour work week. In this case, it is December 1st as a general day of vacation. The report points to the assessment that few or none of the days listed in this law had as much impact on the history of the people as on our sovereignty day of December 1. I can totally agree with that. When I went through the web, I saw some of the articles that it had been a long day of vacation, so it was blamed for the design of the labor movement. I don't sell it any more expensive than I bought it, a respectable president, but I have to say that I think that I have a very valid cultural argument that December 1 is a public holiday, and then I also like holidays very much, so I think it's okay to add it as a museum. However, I fully agree with the viewpoints presented earlier in opposition to Óli Björn Kárason regarding the cost it may bring. This is a Senate bill, as is often put forward here, but there is no expense assessment, as if we often demand on primes, so it would be normal to settle over it. Not only is this cost to the job and also to the state itself, which represents all too much work and realizes that by such change, the cost to various public institutions would increase something with the approval of this proposal. But it is not long since we spoke in this council hall about the exact same law. Then there was a bill, which I think was. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson spoke on behalf of Pirathah, to change this law, No. 88/1971, law about 38 hours, 36? [[Upwards: 35.]] [[Upwards: 35.]] - 35 hours working week, yes, shortening the workweek. I also took up the discussion and find it very exciting to shorten my work weeks, but there are still busy areas of it, perhaps especially that I don't think we in this room should share with us so much of what is going on in the general labour market and I think it's only natural that the workers of the employment market can get a chance to negotiate on factors like the length of the workweek. During that discussion, I began to read through the fine laws involved. They are not very long, just simple, and there are many of the principles that can be negotiated from the other. When I read this book of laws, I wondered if there is a need for these laws in our library or if we could just take them away. We've got a nice workaholic law that'll deal with a number of factors, and then there's other factors that I think they'll hear in my opinion as a contract for labour markets and collective contracts. But then it's 6. where you discuss the holidays and that is what this bill is all about. It refers to holidays as the holidays of the National Church. In other words, we also have a code of laws on holiday peace, where the holidays of the Church are set out specifically. V.E.G. The minister of justice has proclaimed changes in that law, and I look forward not only to seeing what they look like but also to sharing in the discussion of that matter. Along with holidays, we are now talking about the summer day on the first day of June 17, and then Christmas Christmas, and New Year's Day. 13th I said in the discussion last week, and I'll get to repeat it, that I think that, for example. Fucking ridiculous. To me, Christmas and the New Year's Day are special days, important days of celebration, and days of family life. Making him a holiday day from the clock. 13 I just think it's kind of stupid, I think he should be a general holiday. In situations where people are forced to work, fortunately, most do not have to do so, mostly in business and service, it is only natural to be paid for overwork. But there is also something that should be negotiated in a general labour market. I wanted to fit in with one of my discussions, but in discussing this book of law, I have wondered if perhaps it would be a reason to take the whole law off and to make a change in the law of the holidays of the Church so that in return there would be a simple law on common holidays. Then we could put in the holidays that are already defined in this law, and we could have reason to look at December 1 as well as on that subject, and stop specifying the holidays of the State Church, which I still think are very important. I reiterate that I respect the National Church, I think it plays a major part in our culture and wants its ways as large as possible, but I realize that certain criticisms of the role are always growing, and maybe just a reason to speak specifically about these days that have been defined as the holidays of the Church as the common holidays in Iceland, where everyone can enjoy the vacation and with his closest members, regardless of their religion or whether they belong to the State Church and want to celebrate what originally occurred. I wanted to throw this into the discussion. Who knows? I offer some bills in this direction when I see what will happen to that bill, especially on December 1. Then I just want to encourage the workforce to address these issues in the discussions that are under these days. There is much talk of work - related pressures and pressures on families and overwork. I think a discussion about holidays is a strong part of that discussion and that it should also take place among the labour market members.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u96	Mr. President. I'm just gonna make a quick remark. Although I agree mostly with a talk, I don't know what to say. A senator thought I needed one thing to do. Although it would certainly be right and beneficial to bring the holidays of the National Church and common holidays under one uniform law that would address this general practice, I think that there is a reason to offer a degree of flexibility toward people who have religions other than Christianity, e.g. are religious celebrations with the Muslim two major festivals, Eid al-Adha and Eid al-Fitr, which come up at different times. Of course, people would like to be free in those days. There is a special opportunity, if we would look at any of those days, such as June 17 and December 1 - I think the suggestion in itself is very good - as some kind of national holiday we're gonna hit, but then allow us to allow a certain other day off, e.g. Christmas Eve, some celebrate. I'm not religious, but I think these days with my family, but some may want to work these days and schedule those holidays at other times. It would be interesting to hear from what happened. A member of the body of elders, whether an arrangement such as this would meet different cultures, different religious doctrines, various beliefs, might exist.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u97	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy for the answer and interesting speculation. I have to admit, I haven't really thought about it. However, I would like to reiterate what I said earlier that in my mind, the National Church plays an important role in Icelandic society and Icelandic culture. We rely heavily on Christian values in various ways, in basic schools and so on. I think it's important. I think it's important that we honor the fundamental culture under which we live. That is not to say, though, that we should not welcome another kind of religion and culture. To me, at least part of those holidays and holidays is what I would like them to be for a general holiday. Whether it is normal that there is some room for those who do not celebrate this holiday to take advantage of any other days of that religion, that is interesting to me. I wondered if it might be more comfortable in collective agreements, building up some sort of space there. I think it would be very good to look at it. I also reiterate, however, that although I have been speaking for making a legal adjustment in the sacred days of the Church, it is not in my mind to put these days off, rather that it would be possible to fit into one law of general holidays, whether they originated from the Church, this cultural values of our Christian faith, or other factors associated with our culture, such as December 1, June 17, or something like that. The afternoon was discussed with the first day of the summer. I think there's a reason to discuss whether he's a fan because he rarely reminds me of the summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u98	Mr. President. It is, for example, always a problem, trying to stem things that are deeply rooted in culture, and where some changes occur in community composition. This, of course, is another example. I don't think it would be possible, at least for now, to change the school arrangement and the same. But making some kind of space, maybe some kind of religious greeting days, as I understand it, is the arrangement in India, it's just some religious goodbyes that are days off, and then you can have them taken care of at will. This is naturally absolutely necessary there, rather than in many other places, because of the incredible number of religious holidays and diverse religions that exist. But as a faithless man, I can only be on vacation at any time and so on.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u99	A respectable president. Yes, it was evident in the speech of the senator that, regardless of faith, everyone enjoys holidays. It must then be the freedom of each one to take advantage of those days and wonder why they enjoy those days, whether they are on some religious foundation, an ethnic or cultural foundation, or just to be away on vacation, which may be quite the case. I think it's an interesting idea of some kind of dinner, I think that what. A senator has used that word, if known elsewhere. Then I wondered: " Isn't it just one of the things that would be considered for a discussion now among the labour market members when talking about dress? I don't think it's any less there, our discussion of holidays, because talking about the shortness of a work week is often so that people can be better suited to take and do their work for hours a day and then have time. I'm sure there are many aspects of this and a variety of opinions. I have generally been saying that freedom should be as much of a person as possible and that it can be negotiated at the scene of the labour market in collective agreements. But I reiterate what I said earlier on the discussion of this on the committee, that now the committee has two prime radios that deal with the change of exactly these laws, so I encourage the dog. General and Education Committee, I presume...
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u100	Well, good luck.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u101	A well-being committee. Yeah, it's going to the point. The welfare committee. Thank you, Mr. President. I ask the committee to consider this in particular when discussing these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u102	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend the interpretation of Alexander's airport as a reserve airport for the Cheflavík, Reykjavík, Akureyri and Eglil Standard Airport. In addition to me, there are messengers in this matter of Anna Kolb Kolbrún The Árnadóttir, Bergþór Ólason, Birgir the son of Þórarinsson, Gunnar the son of Sveinsson, Sigmundur, Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson, and Shadmund the Sæmundsson of Shimund. The proposal is as follows: The Council of the United States concluded to hide transport and local government officials from making a thorough investigation of the options of making Alexander's airport on the South Year Report a reserve airport for Cheflavour Airport, Reykjavík, Akureyri Airport, and Eglish Airport. The secretary introduces the results of the survey no later than in January 2019. A report says: A similar arrangement was proposed to the 144th legislation Council (527th case), to the 147th legislation (23th matter) and to the 148th legislature (D.E.), but was not met, and this proposal has therefore come forward. The safety of transport, whether by means of land, sea, or air, must be assured in the best way. Today, there are four main airports in Iceland, Reykjavík, Cheflavour Airport, Eglish Airport, and Akureyri Airport. These airports play an important role in national and national transport as passenger and freight transport fields and as security equipment. The distance between these options is a few, but the shortest distance between Reykjavík and Cheflavour Airport, about 30 miles [50 km]. Between Akureyri and Reykjavík, between Reykjavík and Eminence are some 390 miles [390 km] and about 650 miles [650 km] between Akureyri and Eglish positions about 265 miles [265 km]. This shows that the distance between Reykjavík and Eminence is quite some, and it was evident that when a gap in Eyjafjörður took a turn, Alexander's airport was the only effective airport, and its importance was proved to be the same. Between the sheep of the river and the Akureyri, the distance is only about 12 miles [120 km], which takes only about 11⁄2 hours. to drive. Between the Sheep of the Year and the city of Reykjavík, some 295 miles (295 km), over three hours. drive. The city of the capital area and the Southnesia live in the vicinity of such active volcano areas as Blue Mountains and Krysuvik. The land is rising in Cyrsuvik, and earthquakes are occurring in the regions that still call for speculation about the state of transportation to and from the capital area as well as from the country. So it may be an important safety factor for the country's people and visitors to ensure that its transport safety is even more secure. It is obvious that distances and travel distances vary significantly between Eglskot and Reykjavík on the other hand, with the Sea of Galilee and Reykjavík. There is an important airport in all the North, especially because of increasing passenger flights in the country and abroad, and the Lagis base airport is also important for the East. Then the airport in Akureyri has a key role for a medical flight. Alexander's airport is well - located where flight is good, the tide is wide, and there is little obstacle. The airport points north, which are also the dominant winds in those areas, and then the location of the field is favorable for snow. Data from Vega reports that the highway from the Sea of South Africa to Reykjavík has been closed only 0.7 days a year since 2011, while at the same time the highway from Eelsports to Reykjavík has been closing for 2.5 days a year on the southern route, while 9.7 on the north route. It will also be noted that from a sheep's home to Reykjavík and to Akureyri, there is more than one way to go, so there is a chance if highway 1 closes. It is clear, therefore, that the location of the field is well considered to be a move on land. Transporters feel alone that building Alexander's airport as a reserve airport could be a significant advantage for Reykjavík and Keflavík. It is obvious then that such an airport will serve Akureyri and Egeils well as reserve airports and will ensure and trust the important activities being run in connection with tourism and flights in general. Thus, in view of this, a minister is directed to engage in necessary preparatory work and research in order to implement these ideas and is proposed to have a minister investigate the benefits of making Alexander's airport on the south end of the river to a reserve airport for Cheflavour Airport, Reykjavíkur Airport, Akureyri Airport, and Egalgell Airport. The minister presented the results of this study no later than in January 2019. After this discussion, I recommend that this case be referred to the environment and transport committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u103	Mr. President. I find this suggestion quite interesting, and I'm going to review some aspects of my speech below. But I would like to get a little deeper insight into the suggestion myself. A senator, especially as to what other possibilities were considered when he wrote the proposal and compared with the risk assessment. It would be interesting to know whether this was primarily considered in the context of national economic efficiency or whether flight security factors have been considered suspected. There are a lot of problems with flight security in Iceland, just current installations, simply because of the pressures of aircraft flying across the Atlantic Ocean. Maybe it's the main hazard of flights from the United States and North America, but maybe it's going to increase, too, with India flights. Air security requires a major campaign in general. But I think this suggestion comes from a strange way, and I'd like to understand better the reasons for the proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u104	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy for that answer. Which direction does the suggestion come from? It comes from members of the Central Party. Alexander's airport is thus located, and it was shown in the report that it is very convenient for landing and takeoff. Its dominant direction is the same as the runway. This suggestion, to add it as a backup airport, is a tight safety network of air transports. That's the short answer, as I understand the senator's question. There's more airports to go, I don't know what to say about that. This airport was very convenient for us to go to this job and its location. So it is in this council decree.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u105	Mr. President. Yes, this may be a rather unnecessary expression of my question. What I'm looking at is that this is a move to a transport program where all the airports in the country, except two, that's it. Sheep-year-olds and Congress, they're said to be part of the network of transportation. I'm sorry, but this is a problem that can be separated from a few factors. Alexander's airport runway is for example. Only from a tar-bound jar called, it's actually bound only to a broken layer, kind of, and it would be a more suitable playground. It's a very long track, which is good and very convenient. On the other hand, the airport scene, the airport barn, is extremely small. If we were talking about maybe 50 planes coming in from America in the morning, when they cry somewhere, so that Cheflavor airport closes and storms in Akureyri and stuff, they need to be placed 50 planes on the ground somewhere. There's space there, but I wonder if there are any less inexpensive ways to build up this flight security than to go that way. Now I'm not against the fact that we're building up Alexander's airport, and really, I'd like to get that airport and the Trinity airport into a transport program, as well as other land landing sites that have no formal role. But when we are looking at this particular flight security factor, there may be less expensive and simpler ways to reach this goal, although, of course, the structure at this airport should be allowed to take place.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-07-28.u106	V.E.G. President. It is true that this is enormously expensive, but no budget has been set. There may be less expensive ways, as the senator enters, but it has only been proved that this place is very suitable for takeoff and landing. The Senator mentioned a transport program. This proposal was prepared before the most recent transport program was developed, so that's just what they say. I say again that this is being put forward to secure networks, so that we can land any aircraft that can't land anywhere else that is on international flights. Speaking of 50 planes, I may not see it happening at this airport at least not the way he is today. I think they'll be at that job, if this proposal goes forward, which I really hope she does.
