ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u1	It is planned to have a vote of 3, 4, and even the 5th, after lunch break today. One-thirty-thirty-thirty.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u2	To answer, financial and economic minister, education and cultural minister, health minister, social and equal minister, Environment and Resource Minister and Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u3	A respectable president. The financial bill that was being discussed shows even more of what I have thought to be one of the characteristics of this government and its approach to matters, i.e. to raise costs and invent new fees. And if things aren't taxed, they're forbidden. The centenarian increases that we now discuss with the budget are probably 150. These peaks of thousands of dollars, in some cases even tens of thousands of dollars. It is completing a course that was developed a few years ago, already at the highest level. In fact, a minister of finance was in the role he is still in, and it was to result in a gradual reduction in legalization of the common people but primarily that the State was not responsible for prices at the beginning of the year and in maintaining spontaneous inflation, as it were. Then there are the bans and consumer management that seem to be a guide to the government in a number of ways. There are lots of ideas about what you can say next, whether you can't have a nail bag, ban regular cars, ban plastics, etc. V.E.G. A minister was not impressed with so - called sugar tax, but at the same time he helps create a new tax on consumers, carbon taxes, a tax that is intended to punish people for their destination. I find it hard to see how it works to be opposed to the sugar tax, but then I try to invent the new consumer control taxes. The question is relatively simple and general: None of these plans and ideas about new bans, new taxes, and new payments in the public, which raise doubts in the highest court. Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u4	A respectable president. In remuneration of the budget bill, we have two kinds of fees. We have a general currency and tax rate that we have generally made changes in accordance with prices, although in recent years we have set a standard for not exceeding 2.5%. In fact, there was a year here a few years ago where we said that there was a 0% increase in the total dollar rate. We're doing this on the budget bill not going over 2.5%. It was the beginning of a conversation with the labour market that said that the government could not be responsible for its inflation in the country, and I think it's just a nice way. The next year, it is predicted to be 3.6% inflation, and these charges are only increased by 2.5%, giving after real value. Then there are other expenses that have not changed, judicial fees and various other fees, which are not included in this box of centenarians and taxes we are making for the price. Some of them rise considerably. As we noted yesterday's votes, many of them probably do not pay for the expenses they were originally supposed to be paying, but they will have virtually no impact on prices in the country because they so go out in the index. Then another charge. We're developing a system, and the carbon bill is part of a bigger system. In contrast with carbon, we have a very large system of automobile import fees, and we prefer electricity automobiles and other environmental vehicles, thereby leaving public fees in large quantities to change the fleet's composition. It must be watched in the overall context when we consider how burdensome it is. It's all thought to make a change, and it's going well after now.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u5	A respectable president. I was less likely to do so. Secretary of finance would hold a high defence case on the use of alcohol control. This may indicate a change in the attitude of those prayers. However, I would like to reiterate the question, which was basically designed to give the highest. The minister's chance to send a message to his government that there are limits to what the Independence Party can accept with much taxation and many new and penalties would bring upon people. The minister did not use that opportunity in a previous answer. Rather, he defended the new management policy. Maybe that'll just be the conclusion. Nevertheless, I reiterate the question: Is there nothing in all of these changes, these increases, these new rules and bans, and these expenditures and plans for the future as high as possible? Minister have doubts? Could he mention one thing that he might want to consider, perhaps wondering, " Should this spell on the public or minimize burdensome rules? '
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u6	A respectable president. This may be the case when you have done so much in a short period of time that your art begins to shrink. [[Up front.]] Once we've taken high 2,000 product charges and thrown down all the tolls, we've had a lot of success. I never believed in the sugar tax because there was no sign that it made a change in consumption. I think all the ideas of some kind of sugar tax of 1, 2, 3 billion will not exactly change anything, that will not be of any profit other than government funds. Everything will be at the expense of the homes. I think you just have to face it. If you're going to take advantage of such measures, you have to do it very hard, so that people really feel it, and I'm not their spokesman. But I agree with what. A senator says that we should keep our eyes open to relieve unnecessary expenses. In the context of modern transport, I think the dangers of our system today are that the technological changes will not be faster enough for us to achieve the result of the target. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u7	A respectable president. Speaking of advances in technology, micro:bit-computer is small, hand-handing and programming computers for young and old. Yet, the computer is mainly a learning tool for children to learn into the computer wonder world and computer technology. This is an ambitious task where the micro:bit computer was distributed to all students in the 6th and 7th grades of Iceland. It was initiated in 2016, and a large number of people came to that assignment. Many companies strengthened the project, and the children had special pages for the computer where all kinds of tasks, videos, and features of the computer's history could be found. May 5th. It was announced on the Board's Web that a group of students in computer science had finished translating a developer to the computer in Icelandic. This or comparable task is of utmost importance to the way of the Icelandic education system into the fourth industrial revolution. It's a perfect deposit for the growing digital carpenter, as per a proposal adopted at the council this spring. This project has made a number of investments. Study material, knowledge, and support systems have been developed. Furthermore, the computer is very cheap. There are no professional reasons for me to give up this project. The benefits are evident today and in the future, both in accordance with established policy and in common sense. Why did the Ministry stop funding this project? Why is the entire investment thrown out of the window? Why don't we know when assignments are tied like this, and why do I have to hear about it in town? I can't find any notice from the Ministry on this decision. V.E.G. Minister. What's going on here?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u8	A respectable president. This government places great emphasis on innovation, research, and evolution. We see that contributions to these classes increase from year to year by 16.3%. A major ambitious policy is being set in motion by the traveling, industrial, and innovation ministers to promote this category. There's also going to be an extra refund for innovation and development in the bill in which financial and economic ministers are on their way. With this assignment, we're just very into it. We want it to go on. It has been invested in a lot of money, and we will make sure that the grand investment we have made on that project can continue. We know that it has great joy in high school, and it is the right thing to say. Senator, this is a simple computer. She teaches programming and helps a lot. So it is not the policy of this Minister to cancel this mission.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u9	A respectable president. Big focus on innovation. There are 14 companies who receive this roofing according to the information we have received. But that micro:bit computer and project, computers, many, they don't get to students. They come to school but even land on a shelf, since the school is waiting for help from people who know and know how to use these computers to increase knowledge in school. Digital carpenters have been very active in taking this computer into their floors to create robots and so on. As far as I can see, the computer wasn't distributed this fall because the Ministry dropped funds for that project. Yes, a minister is aware that this should continue, and I would be interested in hearing how it works from now on.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u10	A respectable president. We intend to carry on with this assignment. As indicated by what. This is of great importance to a senator. It involves the policies we focus on. We're rethinking what the induction's been like. Looks like the project's coming out really well. It started, including. Take the initiative at the highest level. The then minister of education and culture, Illugi the son of Gunnarsson. I'm very into this project, and I'm going to look into it further, as it were, how it works. A senator describes. But this minister has the full will to proceed with the project.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u11	A respectable president. The message that has been sent out to society recently by means of a new budget bill probably did not escape anyone's notice. It says that the pay or survival rate should be increased by 3.4% and now by an adjustment of 3.6%. I'd like to direct a question to the highest level. Secretary of finance as the champion of the law he is and refer to the 69th paragraph. Social Security Act, which refers to the benefits of social security. It says in the first verse: The health benefits of the social security [...] will be changed annually according to the budget at a time. First, what does this mean, my chief? Secretary of finance? Doesn't mean it's legal according to the 69rd paragraph. change the ideal disability every year? Second, the question says: Their decision should take into account pay development...-it does not say: can be taken into account, or may be taken into account, or may be taken into account, or may be included, and/or included, but: their decision should be taken into account in terms of pay development, although it will never increase less than the price of consumer prices. Now I'm asking the highest. Financial Minister: How are these increases, or corrections calculated? A follow-up of 69 st. Social Security Act that clearly states that? It is not as if this article is in foibles or in any doubt as to what is presented there. So I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance: What does he have to say about this? And a tiny question: What increased pay - related development in the country last year?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u12	A respectable president. The budget bill submitted in September expected that the pay and price bill of the budget would be 3.4%. This led to an estimate of 2.9% of inflation, and it was assumed that by the next year, commercial power would grow by 0.5%. Then we received a new forecast of 3.6% inflation, and this question came up with an opinion. Has new predictions of higher prices changed the scope for next year's pay changes? We thought the answer to that would be negative. It would not in itself be anything, despite higher anti-inflation predictions, indicating that there could be a higher pay raise in the next year on collective labour contracts than previously expected. Then this law seizes. A senator points even. to ensure a certain minimum increase that is always at least ... thesuccessorry. We should not forget, though, that circumstances in this country may increase with greater pay prices. That is exactly what happened after the collapse, and those who are on social security benefits have a particular parachute in such circumstances. They are protected by this rule. In other words, they received the inflation rate of compensation while the pay in the country was generally decreasing. There are some comments from the Ministry of Economics that have been written to the council more than once on the details of the interpretation of these specific requirements. It points to contracts for general pay promotions, and this is how the article has been interpreted up to this point. I must draw attention to the fact that, except for this 3.6% rise here, it is assumed that we will be being added by the next 2.9 billion under the budget as it is currently in the council. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This combined will increase the improvement by 5.8%, which is said to exceed the price.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u13	A respectable president. I'm now known for being an Inga feeling, and I almost broke into tears, it was such a sad, pathetic answer. In fact, when the Law was being tried to comply with the issue of 69 C.E., everything was going down again. a song that says never to increase benefits less than the price of the index price. The fact is different today, the highest. Secretary of finance. This article says that pay should be taken into account, which I understand is about 11%. Mixing the 2.9 billion who do not have a direct rise in terms of micro-organism is natural -- I don't really know where it came from. Secretary of finance has the idea of doing so. I just don't get it. The fact is, it is being wrong to correct the ideals of anorta. At the end, now that I'm here on a roll, tiny question: Secretary of finance how many tens of thousands of Icelands get paid even under $250,000. a month?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u14	A respectable president. I think there's good reason for us to discuss at the council how to interpret the law. It's important that the legislature is clear. It is for many years, and it is the tradition of changing rights based on this law. And it examines what was negotiated in collective agreements of the year for generalised elevations. Then it was asked how many people take a salary that is around 250,000 dollars. Recently, the Hague Service published a picture that drew it together for a full - time job in Iceland. It stated that about 1% of full - time workers have 300,000 dollars. or less, 1%.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u15	Mr. President. Filip Ragnar will be one year after two days, November 24. He was born in Iceland, and he's lived here all his life with his parents, Isidoru and Dusan, who over the last three years have been attending college here. Filip Ragnar's mother, who has previously completed a BA test in northern studies, has worked to translate Norwegian for government administration. Montenegro. In other words, she has invested a great deal in that knowledge and is now living here with the family that thus enriches an Icelandic community. Or what? A foreign agency viewed this as not enough for this little boy, Filip Ragnar. A foreign agency has placed a stone in the street of this family - or should we say a rock? The soon one - year - old boy will not be allowed to live here with his family in which the Icelandic government has used the narrowest, possible explanation of the laws of foreigners, and even added. Now I'm going to allow myself to go into some legal things in my inquiry to the highest degree. Minister of Justice, but I think it's safe to say it, for the minister of law has been taught and also over the press for the past two years. 5 mg. 71. g. The law on foreigners, but it's a general law on rights for children, says, with the permission of a president: It is advisable to deviate from the standards set out in this ◯ - on the type of study by parents - if their child's interests are particularly required. This was based on the application, and it was quite clear that the boy would be impossible to stay in a foreign position, away from a family, while his parents are studying. That's why I want to ask the highest. Legal Minister: She believes that in this case the Foreign Institute has gone beyond its authority, possibly inaccurate to the counsellor's will, or at least When a decision was made to deny the child who was born here, did not apply a clear law to the child's interests? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u16	A respectable president. Here's where we're going. A senator to decide which is not official and has not been introduced to me, as there is no reason. A foreign agency only works by law. If there is to be no law against having a permit in certain circumstances, it must be followed and not allowed by the National Institute of Iceland. The fact that children are born here in Iceland and the parents have temporary residence rights and the children are not allowed to live for that reason is not in themselves a new word. Similar rules apply in most places. Even though Iceland's children may not be allowed to live abroad, their Icelandic parents have temporary residence permits abroad. However, there is evidence that these children are not expelled from the country. The decision of the Foreign Institute is never to be dismissed. Children have received a social security number and have been enrolled in a national file called an outdoor list. There has been no problem with these children having the privilege of serving as children in Iceland. The other is that there is an opinion in the Ministry, including... on the scene of a transnational committee, to change the law, and to make it clear that the children who are born here receive a provision comparable to that of parents who are temporarily living and cannot be the basis for continued or permanent residence here. All of this is under consideration, and I will follow through in the weeks and months, and I will conclude this view with some conclusions soon.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u17	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. Minister for the answer, but not entirely. That's exactly what I was pointing out. 71. g., saying that in specific circumstances, you should not follow that you must be a master's degree or a parental doctor who will allow this authority for a child to stay here. That's exactly what the law says. That's why I asked the minister. The Agency is, of course, a Subcommittee and Minister responsible for its institutions and should be able to read the news coming from the decisions of its institutions. This issue has been in the media. Why doesn't the Bureau do the law? For some reason, the Agency points to the decision of the NTSB and points out that this applies only to children under special circumstances and with an urgent need. [[The president calls.]] Then there is an urgent need for something new in the law or in the regulations, but there is no evidence there. Then I wondered, " Is the minister aware that laws or regulations are being added, or are clear laws interpreted from the Council, in that there are further conditions to provide shelter and so go wrong with the lawgiver's will? ' [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u18	The president directs them to what? Councilmen respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u19	A respectable president. This query why. A senator has changed from the unsanction of the decision made by the Foreign Institute to include unsaturated cases of foreigners who have, if I understand them. A senator is correct, passing a ruling that is not in accordance with the law. Now, there is a specific situation in the Law text that has to be determined on a case by case basis for any particular situation. In each case, this makes it possible that circumstances might compromise clear laws that allow a decision to be made. I have no reason other than to think that the Foreign Institute as in this case, if right or wrong. One senator, referred to the findings of the panels of foreigners, followed this procedure and the law to assess the situation at a time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u20	A respectable president. This week the News magazine published an article relating to an experienced Polish pathologist who is not authorized to work here. In the story, her sad story is traced. She applied for, got it temporarily, and then renewed with the condition that there would be a confirmation from the employer of Icelandic knowledge, none of which is to be distributed. Of course, the system allows immigrants to operate under Icelandic military authorities who can attest to their expertise in Icelandic English. At the end of a story, there's a quote to the Ministry of Education. It is now the compassion that is good, but it still has to do with a health - care institution, surgeon. Sadly, this story is not unique. I know more of these situations, since the system responsible for which the Minister is responsible is not helping people gain rights in line with their education. One of them is e.g. This requirement for you to have an Icelandic social security number which is not as logical as it may seem. I'm going to ask the minister, is she okay with this? Does she feel that the system is trying to stop people from working with what they are educated to do? Are foreign - trained speech pathologists, nutritionists, and psychologists to shed on bars while the system lines up their applications? Does she feel that an employer, a holy employer, is required to give a review of language skills and that a social security number is required, which I would like to agree to be a violation of the EEA contract? If this doesn't work for her, you're going to have the talk with the highest level. The Minister of Education, under the Regulation on the granting of the application procedure, would they agree to change this? [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u21	President wants to point them out. Congress members are required to use the proper comments.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u22	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the question, and it is especially important to have the opportunity to discuss this matter. Here we are talking about the smell of the life we've lived with in Iceland, which is actually a community where mainly there has been one culture and one language. Happily, though, we are now entering a society where large numbers are recognized and desirable. We need to recognize and adapt in all aspects of society, whether it is rule, law, regulations, or action, to that reality and clear will, not just the one that stands, which is the beginning and end of all these matters, but the community as a whole. It takes repeated policy measures, both in rural society and the state, that we want to be a population population, and we want it to be reflected in all these factors. For this particular matter, which is the source of it. A senator asks me about them has expressed himself in the highest court. An education and cultural minister, and, in fact, it was made up of an informative report, that she has in mind having laws being carried out around this, i.e. Recognition of professional education and appropriate. I understand that there's already been a bill in the consultation puzzle and that's part of it. There is every reason, and indeed not only for this reason to look at this particular thing, both in terms of the legal structure under my department but also in terms of regulations and implementation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u23	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. It's a good thing they don't resist this situation there. But, as a matter of fact, I'd like to say that most of these things can be changed only in a court of law, without the need for us to change the law. I'd like to call the Minister's attention to one other condition which is the requirement for a social security number that may be logical, but is not. If I am, for example. An educated nutritionist, who wants to move to Iceland, would be really good to know if I could work in this trade or if I had to bridge the gap with anything else. But the system does not accept applications that do not have an Icelandic social security number. There's a way out of this. There are so - called extra-garden identification numbers that are thought for such a case. Could not the minister simply direct it to his institutions, that in the case of a person who does not have an Icelandic social security number, he be assigned such a landmark through the outback system? What people do today is they go to a bank, buy their social security number at 15,000 bucks, and the bank shepherd the profits, because the bank pays nothing for the social security number. Is she okay with this system?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u24	A respectable president. I think this question is why. A senator gives us reason to consider this. I think there's a good reason. This is part of the legal environment and the implementation of this procedure, such as creating health care professionals laws where a surgeon is allowed to issue temporary leave to workers with foreign studies or a test approved by contracts who do not meet national requirements. Of course, the letter that he is, as it has been, needs to be looked to. Even so, we need to talk about the matter and make it clear that we need to be careful about the safety of patients and the general interests of the people. There is something we must always keep in mind and that there is an assessment to the competent authorities that there is adequate knowledge in all areas to communicate with the patient file and the Icelandic government, etc. But I completely agree with the tone in a comment and ask why. A senator sees it as a reason to look into the matter further.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u25	Madam President. Those who are in their mid - 30's or older recognize that the Icelandic pension system is outstanding, that we are jealous in comparison with many nations, that we have a set of values that will benefit us in our later years, but from 16 years to 70 years of age, each one pays of his salary and collects in the old men's fund. I think it may be said that the country has extended its joy of paying for a pension fund and thinking good of the fire, thought it was foreview and forethought, which may not always be the sign of our nation's well-being. It is 21 pensions in the country, and there were paid funds at the last 265,000 years. In 1997, the number of them was 50. Tells you the highest. A minister's reason for further demeaning them and thus making their activities and services more compatible and more practical? Can governments in any way contribute to this, and will ministers have initiatives in that direction? Madam President. The properties of the pensions were some 4,000 billion in recent years and grew each day. This is a large amount of money, and except for the equivalent of one and a half domestic product. Icelandic pension funds have about one third of the total resources in Iceland and projections are expected to increase their holding share over the next few years. It is estimated that their share could even go to 35% in 2030 and may even be about 40% in 260. In recent years, the second wave has broken up on the surface of debates about the position and business of the pension fund, overcrowding, pay expenses, and ice cream in the operation. High pay pay paid to the director of the funds has come to the fore and shaken many. This may have had some effect on public opinion on the activities of the pension fund. It has also been carried on by sub-diving and demand for greater influence by the clients themselves in the management of pension funds. 70% of Iceland's Pension Funds have failed to achieve the long - term fruitage the funds have set as a goal, or 3.5% average trial. This results in the recent diagnosis of Óskarsson's engineer and Gylfi Magnússon's son and former businessman. According to their records, only seven funds reach this level if you look back in 1997. The fruitage varies greatly. The best pension fund yields four times as much profit as the poorest. How's it hit? Secretary of finance? Is it an estimate that Iceland's pension funds can still remain dependent on its future commitments when this happens during the day? Madam President. In 2006, Iceland's pension funds had 6% of its registered shares. Ten years later, in 2016, the ratio has reached 41%. The main explanation, of course, is the currency head that prevented foreign investments. The investment and yield options were limited except within the country. The management countries now have more than half of the resources in many large companies at their home and at home, and it has been suggested that the size of these countries can create competitive problems in the stock market. The service group appointed last year on the role of pension funds in the employment sector suggests that the importance of foreign possessions will be increased, the risk spread as much as possible. Of course, this has chosen to some extent to be removed, but is it enough, now that we are free of the oceans? Then the group suggests that there will be a possibility of making a provision for a share of payment for housing supplies. What's the position of the Minister on this? Counts Ministers reason to encourage participation in community projects, e.g. for the benefit of the elderly or in other infrastructure? Has such efforts been put to the test? Some time ago, Gylfi Magnússon said that it would be good for us to reduce the growth of the fund - building system. Instead, we should develop a stronger support that would be called a flow system, where parts of the industry work just as hard to pay a pension, rather than buy stock that will be used to pay a pension some long time later. If a minister agrees with this view, that a flow system is a reasonable option for Icelanders beyond what we already live in, i.e. in the public system, government personnel? What could this lead to the growth and survival of the funds, as a minister? A respectable president. These are critical issues that divide every human child in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] I hope to the highest. A minister will have enough time to answer the questions presented here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u26	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you for taking on this very important subject. However, during the short dosed time we have here, it is difficult to give a deep discussion of all the big issues of opinion. I'd like to trace some of the important things. The system we have today can be traced back to 1969, when, in the context of collective agreements, it was agreed to set up a job-related pension fund with a mandatory fund and a full collection from the beginning of 1970. Before the contracts reached, the general financial situation of the retired population had not been well, since the pensions of social security were no longer good. In 1974 a law was passed that required all employees and professionals to pay at least 10% pay for legal or validated pension funds. Legally, from 1980 onward, the obligation also reached for independent active persons. Finally, 1986 was negotiated for pay of all wages, not just the day's wage. The preparation of laws on the related insurance rights and the operation of pension funds was interrupted from 1976, but in 1997 the current legislation was adopted. A very wide deal with stakeholders was reached on the framework. At that time, an additional pension savings was established as a third support of the pension system as well as a agreement between the state and the public staff to adopt a new right - to - do process based on a full fund collection and, essentially, a system similar to the rights of a general labour market. An article published in 2004 by Már Guðmundsson shows that there may be difficulty in switching between pension systems if existing systems clearly do not cause trouble. It is reported that when agreed in collective agreements at the end of the 1960's, the stocking of a pension fund based entirely on collection, the pensions of public insurance had become very low, as inflation, economic recession, had subsided it. Thus, problems with the transition from a flow system to a treasure collection have been lower and will be greater. It is also noted that collections of waste systems have positive results, particularly in small open economy, i.e. A pension system, should be both economic stimulating and social security networks. The Dutch system has often been pointed out as a model for pension systems, but Iceland has a system comparable to the Dutch, flexible system that is behind it and has the potential to re-create if swirled into the river. When asking about views about the flow system, it is important to keep several points in mind. Such a system allows pensioners to accept a pension directly from the labour market income, thus paying one generation for the next. It may be said that it is possible for such a system that high - cost pensions can be paid to the recording of the system, but the account is sent to working classes that may not have the guarantee that when they go into pension age, they will have the same good rights. In other words, the problem is that the load of pension can be very variable in generations.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u27	Madam President. I want to thank you for this discussion and thank you for her founder and the highest. Secretary of the budget for giving an answer. Iceland's Pension Funds are very important in society. They have about 70% of all market requirements. It's a lot to look at when you go shopping that you're shopping at a pension fund. If you take gas, you'll probably do the same. If you guarantee your home and vehicle, you're probably also dealing with a pension fund. The Pension Fund is now the dominant force in the stock market and, unfortunately, a huge, far too much, in competitive business. In fact, they're doing a few races in Iceland. They have two of the largest food chains, which are probably up to 70,75% of the market share. I've often put it that way that the way the food chains keep prices in Iceland gives you a warrant that those who shop there every day are actually paying their future pension, paying higher prices. Its waters are so massive that they are compared to the Norwegian oil reserve in Norway, and the Norwegians quickly expelled it from the country. That's what needs to be done with the pension fund. They're way too much trouble. They have to invest much more abroad. But then there's something else. There's too many of them. According to each person, the cost of the work runs at 7◯10 billion, and that is literally annoying because the funds should best be used to make compensation or pensions for those who share in these funds. It is a special subject for research, and it may be a question number one to minister: Is it possible that he will use himself in some way to reduce the number of pensions now more than 20 but may be the best way to get e.g. Four?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u28	Madam President. Many countries are now dealing with the problem of working for each pensioner has dropped and predicted that they will continue to decrease in number in the coming years. In Iceland, the average age will rise in the coming decades, and although the average age of the nation is still relatively low, it has been estimated that by 2050, there will be about half as many working hands for each pensioner. If we had a complete flow system here, it would mean that there would be either increased spells on working people, as the nation grows older, or that pensions will simply drop over time. The building of the bio-finance system here is special in many ways. The system's policy prevents various aspects of this particular flow system problem and is designed to ensure the safety of young people today, who will have fewer working hands behind them in later years. Ideas of the increased gravity of the Pension Fund must be taken into account. Let us avoid dwelling on problems for future generations. It is important to keep the budget of pensions in place of remuneration and the store and fruits of their vital pensions. Thus, when the investments of pensions are considered and their independence is respected, the need to step down and discuss matters carefully. On the other hand, the community responsibility of pension funds is like that of other investors, so all ideas of social investments must be celebrated, which pension funds could provide an advantage and gave them a natural product, but at the same time, a lot of money to the community, e.g. in improved infrastructures, which will lead to improved quality of life and increased prosperity.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u29	Madam President. We're talking about so much money. These are 15.5% of the nation's valuables. 15.5% of all the valuables the people make with their work go to the pension fund. Is this a worthwhile assignment? Of course. Do we want funds to make sure that we have a pension and a pension if that's what it's all about? Yes, of course. But we must also be able to make sure that those who handle so much money do well. They present 15.5% of the nation's valuables, which today have been gathering to 4,000 billion. These are so big you can't understand them unless you put them in context. This is more than 40 International Hospitals. All of the government's expenses are about 800 billion a year. These are 4,000 billion resurrected. But what about the management of the funds? Who are the ones to ensure the care of our pension? Who'll make sure of it? These people are chosen, in a very large number of pension funds, to half as many as ASI and half of the commercial community. How do people trust the systems that carry our secure life span, which are supposed to be safe? Trust? Capent Gallup made a survey of 2015 trust in the Pension Funds so that 52% do not trust them. It's only more than 17% who trust the pension system. That's a very bad situation for the members who will take 15.5% and guarantee us a secure night of our lives. What can be done? A report was made that the initiative of the National Association of Pension Fund, a statewarrant made it in 2012, of the collapse and pension fund, and of what would be a relief. It suggested that at least one member of the government be elected by financial institutions. [[The president calls.]] I'm going to talk more about it in the second talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u30	Madam President. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Guðjón's servant, Brjánsson Brunnson, took the initiative in this discussion today. One of the points in the discussion is whether there is reason to encourage the pension fund to participate in community projects, e.g. for elderly or other infrastructure. It's a very good point by which. A senator, for there is indeed an investment opportunity in the field of infrastructure. The need for the growing and rapid construction of nurses in the whole country might give evidence that the financial investment of pensions in building facilities would be reasonable. This would give good injections for the tasks and speeds of projects in behalf of the pensioners waiting for medical care. Also, I can see that the pension fund can become strong throughout a country where there is a shortage of apartment housing by investing in housing for needy tenants, to form apartments for older citizens who want to loosen their property and reduce their property, or to own apartments in the general apartment system. By means of investments in elderly citizens'housing, individuals can dispose of their financial assets in housing and extra provisions, but they remain in a secure home. Today, the high demand for housing makes the need for the pension money to become a growing object of community involvement. Being invested in infrastructure to support the owners of the pension fund, the pensioners themselves, also has a positive influence on the image of those who invest. You can also see an opportunity for the pension fund in an investment in the transport system. Indeed, it is a major challenge that we should be able to meet together.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u31	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón - child of Brjánsson for raising this important subject. The direction of the mob in terms of the pension fund has been clear. It's been on the very point that all the people in the country are owned by pensions, not by some kind of profit, as if you've actually had the feeling of it over the last few years. A collection of 4,300 billion dollars. - Why don't we get a standard payment from a pension payment that we're taking away every time we get paid off when we take out our pension rights whenever it is, whether it's after an accident or when we need them or when we're in a pension age? This could be 70 billion dollars worth of state. according to the numbers I've got now. You're so lucky to be able to make inquiries as a senator at the General Information Area or to direct them to councils and Ministers, and we get answers. The answers are clear: This would be about 70 billion each year. What could we do for 70 billion each year? Why should we keep them in our pensions? Why should they fool around with our money? They often do well in investing, but they don't always do well. They are not always successful, like others. And why are the owners not allowed to enjoy the doubt? I can't control it at all. I can't understand that. It's here at this high Council that we're changing the Department of Pension Act and it's done, I don't know if it's 100 times or 200 times, it's gonna be a bit much, after a collapse, so there's a lot of things to do to adjust them. And now they're taking about 21.6% of all the individual fees. [[The president calls.]] It's just money Falls into the pension fund, and we want to be part of this waterfall.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u32	Madam President. I especially want to thank you for this discussion about our pension system. The debate on the Pension Fund is often characterized by an amazing ignorance of the nature of the system, I would say, in fact, its strength and its basics. We have one of the world's strongest pension systems, whatever our criteria. If we look at the percentage of the payments that flow to pensioners from pension funds on the other hand and from the state, we are in the highest order. When we look at the fruitage of the system, we are in the highest order. As we view our system's property as a share of land production, we are in the highest order and as we look at the cost of the system's operation, i.e. Its practicality, we too are in the highest order, despite repeated claims about everything else, based on very questionable controlled studies, often tied to one fund or just part of their operating expenses, and so on. We need to talk about this system as it is and from some insight into how it works. Sadly, all too often, both in public discussions and in the council. The benefits of the collection system we have are that we as a nation do not have to worry about the aging of the people. It's for the pension commitment in the future. Also, the nation's aging need not be concerned about government funds, the older citizens, the future pensioners, the taxpayers, and the taxpayers. That's why we don't tax our money, but when we take our income out. It'll be equal to what's left of the state funds. This will help us to continue drinking together throughout eternity, regardless of the nation's ages each time. So it is important that we discuss this system with some insight into it and knowledge of it and put forth effort to do so, especially with us who sit here and get paid for it, to put us in the way, that we learn the benefits and defects of the pension system. That's why I especially welcome this discussion today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u33	Madam President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón who Brjánsson for having taken the initiative in this vital discussion. The pension system is one of the cornerstones of Icelandic society and, in fact, the economy. Pension funds are more than the domestic product and now have nearly half of all registered stocks and one-third of the community's total funds. Thus, their participation and behavior in the market can be of great importance. In view of the fact that the pension fund has to invest for about 103/412 billion each month, I think it's a good idea that they look at further long-term investments in residence and/or the construction of nursing homes. This I'm saying with them in advance, of course, the product of the pension fund has to be in the foreground, but investing in concrete has often been considered a fairly good investment in Iceland. Mr. President. The number of older citizens will increase by half over the next 25 years. With only a little longer, or up to 40 years, the population of Iceland will increase by 100,000. Of these, the number of senior citizens is 75,000, of which 100,000 are growing. In view of the fact that we're not very good at the generation that built up Iceland already, I'm not so optimistic about the future in this regard. We need to be especially careful that the pension system does not accept the public welfare system. This, in fact, results. difference between non-preservative income groups. So we need to protect the public welfare system at the same time that we have a powerful pension system aside and on top of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u34	Madam President. I'm going to start by saying every word in a sledgehammer. paritaprevir Þorsteinn, son of Víglundsson before you. We were in need of a resort. On the other hand, I'm going to go through the question of which, in any way, the Icelandic pension fund, which is the second most important factor in the production of Icelandic retailers, after the apartment that people buy - that is why I and the Independence Party place so much emphasis on special policy. It's one of the basics, along with the pension system, a property of paymen. The idea that the pension fund is involved in important community projects is valid. However, such involvement, whether of roads, of nursing homes, or of apartments in any way, or of any other assignment, must be the basis for the pension fund. At times, I feel overwhelmed by public discussion of participation in the pension fund that such projects are not to be used specifically. I warn against all such ideas. They are extremely dangerous, just as dangerous, as are the ideas of bringing in here a flow system into a pension fund. A flow system can lead to my children and grandchildren, hopefully to get them, to carry more weight in the future because of me and us sitting here, if we bring in a flow system. That's a dangerous idea. In addition, it can be said that we actually have a flow system when it comes to the insurance bill because it is, of course, part a flow system to finance the social security system.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u35	V.E.G. President. One of the concerns at the pension fund as they are fired today is that they seem to have ownership policies. That's why I want to ask the highest. Secretary of finance whether a fund of government agents, the Penitentiary of the State, has developed such a course. If not, if it's going to be done. Because of what I mentioned earlier, how much pension money is in a competitive market, it's essential that the pension fund establish its ownership policy. It has also been found that, and economists'sense has done so, that it is not good for themselves how far representatives of the pension fund are from the governments in which they share the dominant share. They are not, as you say, the great shareholders. They are more sleeping shareholders, as is called in foreign lands. It's just one thing that's very underdeveloped and needs to be sharpened. I'd like to hear the thought of a financial minister for that. Another is the involvement of funds in social projects. Then I'm in particular on one matter, and it's that at the time that HS Orcs were sold and placed in part in foreign property, the pension funds were put on guard against my judgment. It is now, for example. Okay. I understand that there is now for sale, though something in this fine company and it would be good to hear the concept of the secretary of finance for it and how he views the role of the pension fund in participating in social projects. Then I'm naturally referring to tasks that meet the requirements for bearing fruit. I'm not talking about subsidies on some social project. I'd love to hear from the highest. A minister of what course he sees and what he has in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u36	Madam President. I'd like to thank the advert, please. paritaprevir The Guðjón of Brjánsson for starting this discussion. The pension system is one of the most powerful anchors in the Icelandic financial system and an enormously important one. Let us not forget that this anchor is important to the financial collapse, and it would likely have been worse at that point if we had had an ordinary flow system. The system is fine, it's designed according to Icelandic conditions, but it's not flawless. One thing I think is that it actually maintains the division of income and property that exists in your life. The system such as this does very little in trying to wind up with the problems when accepting people of a pensioner's age. We're here to play with the social security system and the pension system. In fact, you can say that, like a what? paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason came in earlier, that the social security system is the flow factor in our pension system. I count at least Not a reason to go further on that subject, going further through the water. However, there is an important debate we need to take, and I'm kind of open to it, how we can look at the fact that the pension fund is coming to the investment of investors in our society. It could be a very valuable contribution for them just in this balance-and-gravity equation which I think is important to the pension fund. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u37	Madam President. As I said in the previous talk, we're talking about 15.5% of all the valuable skills of staff in Iceland. It's well over 4,000 billion. which we're talking about. Who chooses these people? To protect one another is to care for the needs of the elderly. If we approach this from a general democratic fairness rule, it is so that if you have a great deal of interest in it, you will have the right to arrive at a decision-making session. High-level party. Secretary of finance, or Pétur Blöndal, has repeatedly proposed that funds themselves have the right to choose in the administrations of the funds. His approach was on the basis of accumulated rights, how much they had invested, how important it was in that power. In fact, this is justified on that basis. Now there are others who come in new ones who may not want older ones or who have been longer able to take control of the whole thing. Then half or even one could be elected by those stakes and then, by the power of their accumulated rights, and one who would be elected in a single man's strength, one vote. This was where both the poor and those who are new to represent the government, as well as on the basis of what Pétur H. Blöndal suggested. Gudleful Þór Þórðarson, Þorsteinn Sæmundsson, et cetera. I have been on that bill, and I have been on it, with Pétur H. Blöndalur. This is what is stated in a report made by a governor of the Union of Pension in 2012. It says that it seems unusual that the owners of the pension fund, the funds, are generally not represented in the funds and have no access to who is sitting there. Yeah, that's abnormal. That's a great deal of interest. If you put money in a company and you share it, you're right. According to the principles of OECD and general business conditions in most countries, you have the right to choose a government. That's why cashmates are entitled. This is a bill which has been submitted repeatedly, including of the Independence Party. I'd like to ask the highest. The secretary of finance for Bjarni Benediktsson whether he agrees with that principle.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u38	The president of my staff still wants to drive. Congress officials are to use the proper address words.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u39	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón of Brjánsson for this discussion about the status and future of the Icelandic pension fund and the highest. His minister's entry. As mentioned in this discussion, the pension fund in all contexts of the economy is very large and really amazing to think about, but the highest. There was a minister over the history of the pension fund from the 1969 institution of which we have become a powerful system, as we have seen here. Of course, it is normal in this size-separated context, one-and-a-half of the country's domestic product, one-third of its total wealth, that there were ideas of some kind of perfusion, but I agree with them. Councilmen who have discussed this and who have warned against it. Clearly, it would place an equal burden on generations. I agree with what. Óli Oar Björn Kárason on how the social security system really guarantees, and why. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson also introduced it, had a flow through the system, and this interaction between the social security system and the pension system is precious to us. It's important. This does not change, however, because we need to examine these systems and how we and the pensions can live up to the commitments to the future subjects. In terms of internal investments, I support the special delivery system that has been used, and that is in line with the opinion of the pension fund, which also appeared in a recent report.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u40	A respectable president. Who's the pension fund for? For middle - aged men, they have a good salary, a high salary. Who aren't they for? Mothers, women, who had little to do with their work ability. Shall I give you an example? $25,000. for a pension fund and a $25,000 pension fund. the special property savings. What does that mean? You want to guess? Zero. How on earth can we build such a system? Consider another example. 50,000 from a pension fund and 50,000 from a special savings cut. Would you like to guess what that means to the same person? Ten thousand, 90% tax. This is the wonderful system. What was lost in the taxpayer's collapse? $2,250,300 billion. Then there is the special property savings. Special savings is a prohibition for disability. It is apparent that property savings is turning itself in, that it is being used to allow people to invest in their first apartments and other businesses - but not for micromasks. I'd feel that it should be put into the special property so that people could have it. Do you have any idea how much this battery's gonna cost the business? One hundred and twenty billion a year. For ten years, that number is 170◯200 billion, for 20 years 340,400 billion, over 30 years 500,600 billion. What's with the tune? What is it made for? Yes, for the chosen, for the rich. It's simple. Why don't we just keep it all special? Then this is people's, and they can inherit it. [[The president calls.]] But, no, we're using this for a lot of rich calls to hit the mothers and women of this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u41	Mr. President. I can't answer the last speaker enough otherwise, but I can only understand that the speech is basically a deliberate misunderstanding in the pension system. The pension system is thinking of a collection of pension systems for working people. We pay and build rights. The most important thing for that is our social security, so we don't want insurance, that we have this right, regardless of the way we live our lives are. We can remove from this system rights far beyond what has been paid to do so if we live a long time. Of course, it is the insurance policy involved, e.g. For my disability load, that I can earn a microenergy right from my work involvement in a labour market even though I fell out of a workforce long before a pension age. It makes this system so important to our cohesive recovery. We must not sacrifice it at all. The interaction of the pension system and social security is very important in this, and it is of course good to remember that the pensions pay 65% of pensions, and that ratio is rising. It enables us in this room to then strengthen the social security section of the system, which is our common security network, including to those who have had little or no income over their lifetime, to be able to strengthen that group's pensions, especially from the state fund. It's the system's flow factor, an important part of this three-synthesis system we've built up here. What I think is important to me is that the pension fund is the savings of all the people of the country, the make-up hairs, and the low income. They are not prepped by politicians to reach out to pay for community projects. The pension fund should have one resolve, and it is clear to make the most of it for its money. That's the only goal. Of course, the pension fund can be part of investored investors if it yields acceptable profits for the fund, but we are not supposed to intend the pension fund to do anything other than perform the role they are bound by law, to maximise their yield and return as the highest pension to their funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u42	A respectable president. I want to thank you. Parliaments for vigorous participation in the discussion as well as for the highest. Minister for participating in this with us. I'd like to set up a question about the potential involvement of the pension fund into the infrastructure, and I'd like to think of a participation in road and transportation activities that we're doing so much about and we're not going to have enough money to finance. As we have seen, it has to be on account of the pension fund that loyalty is 3.5% fruit. We've been discussing how we finance the road system in the future, and that's a possible payback. This may be a reasonable option. But I just want to talk about the pension debt, the Pension Fund of the State, at the end. It was about 619 billion dollars. during the last few years and have increased dramatically in recent years. It's supposed to pay, like the highest. Minister mentioned, $7 billion. into the account next year, and likely in the years to come, they aim for it annually. But let me ask myself, " What's the plan to work on this step? ' It's not small. Any plans for that, e.g. for the next three decades? I don't want to raise any fear or anguish in thousands of prospective pensioners, but are these perhaps some of the worst of them? In view of what our objector and former client has mentioned, in the decades that the pension system will increase significantly more rapidly than the economy, and this is a major force in the Icelandic economy, is there any possibility that commitments to the promised agreements will be difficult to fulfill?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u43	A respectable president. That must have been a good discussion. It highlights the number of opinions involved with our pension system. However, there are a number of things that we can agree on and get out of. First of all, we have a very strong pension system. One of our principal economic strengths is how far into the past we have thought about it, and in this respect we are far superior to many other nations. There's been a considerable question here about the presence of funds in the management of pension funds. I've been more of a fan of that. On the other hand, I've wanted us to come to an agreement, as we did in the past, about the government that exists, but it's in favor of a direct involvement in the management of pensions. It was only asked if the State's Penitentiary Fund had set its course. He has an official shareholdership, many of which are considered. It's been asked if I would support the reduction in pensions. Yeah, yeah, I think there's good evidence to combine funds, and that's been happening in recent years. I'm gonna use the last half-minute I have here to point out two factors that I think are very important. We need to discern much more about the future how the funds will be paid, both to foreign investments, and then how the payment flow will be restored when more people go to the right age or to a pension date. This can affect the economic values that are important. This is especially true of us. Last year I had a report on the state of the pension fund on markets, e.g. to see if they had become too much trouble. [[The president calls.]] It's public, and I urge people to study it. I think we have a tremendous challenge there. Pension funds are not supposed to be leading investors in all EU companies, they are to be investors, but we need to put the public back into position to be shareholders. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u44	A respectable president. We're here on the common opinion of the General and Education Committee on the specified bill. The Commission has discussed the matter and received to Bryndís Þorvaldur Helgadóttir and the People of the National Þorsteinsson of Justice, Heiðar Þórdís and Kolmundtsdótir, from Iceland's Hrafnhildur Gunnarsdóttir of the State District Attorney and Soffía Dóra Jons Jóhannsdóttir, and Lilja Björk Guðmundsdóttir from the Red Cross of Iceland. Similarly, the commission received instruction from the Red Cross in Iceland. This bill is put forth specifically to satisfy Iceland's national commitments in the legal domain covered by the bill. The objective of the bill is twofold, one of which is proposed to be a law required to satisfy Iceland's international commitments under the Treaty on provisions and punishment for massacres since 1948, according to four Geneva treaties since 1949, as well as two additional books on contracts since 1977. There is a Geneva Treaty for the improved treatment of wounded and sick soldiers on a battlefield, a Geneva Convention for the treatment of wounded, sick, and sailors on sea, the Geneva Convention for the Treatment of Warfare and the Protection of Civil Citizens during wartime. On the other hand, the objective of this bill is to set up necessary legal requirements to ensure that the European government can use the full - time history of the International Court of Justice and thus examine itself and charge for crimes that are subject to the jurisdiction of the Court under Roman release of the Court of Justice from 1998 validated by Iceland on the grounds of the year 2000. In the treatment of this case, the criminal rights of 2k. were discussed. The bill on crimes against humanity. The principle is based basically on Article 7. The release of Rome, except for the intent-to-be conditions, i.e. that the action is done knowing a sense of attack. The report on this point shows that it was not considered necessary to introduce the criminal condition based on the lack of clinical sensitivity of the public penal law. The committee noted that when a criminal is punished according to a general law, he is guilty of deliberate violations unless specifically stated in the law that penalties are authorized for impunity, such as 18 par. General penalties, No. 19/1940. As in this case, special punishment has been inferred from the regulations of Article 18. The law of criminality so that in general lack of self-respecting action would be sufficient. Hence, the committee was advised that there would be no doubt as to the legal rights to be considered in cases of crimes against humanity, such as 2. The bill. The committee agrees with that viewpoint and suggests that action must be deliberate. In addition, the committee suggests a minor change in wording. In handling the case of the committee, it stated that the bill did not specifically indicate who was involved or appealed to the criminal case because of the violations of the bill, but as a result of the operation by the police. In view of the nature and severity of the offenses as well as the potential for study of these offenses, the Committee considers that it would be better if the local prosecutor also cared for and treated with the prosecution in these substances. In addition, the Commission believes that the need for investigation and criminality will be in accordance with police law, No. 90/1996, and criminal treatment laws, No. 88/2008, since local prosecutors' investigation and charges have been decided on a more serious offense. So the committee suggests a change in 2 mg. Section 8. Police law so that the district attorney is concerned with an investigation against mob murder, humanitarian crime, war crime, and crime against peace. This change ensures that the criminal history of these crimes will also be carried out by the district attorney, as 2 mgr. 23rd par. the treatment of criminal cases. So the committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: 1st Following these words, ◯ When they are performed at 2 mgr. 2.g. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on. 2. Instead of the words, at 2 mg, there is a ◯ word. Section 6. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on. 3. At 1 1. is adding to the new figure: Police law, No. 90/1996. To the 1st issue of 2 mg. Section 8. The law adds: as well as against group murder laws, crimes against humanitarianity, war crimes, and crimes against peace. The Steinunn Þóra's Árnadóttir, who was absent from the case, signed in accordance with Article 4. 18th par. Local procedures for the World Parliamentary Committees and, under the opinion, all members of the General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u45	A respectable president. It is a joy to have someone to speak up again. That's what's said here for the third time. In no longer a signed age, however, the proposal has been submitted three times. A respectable president. The General Department of Sex, what's that? Despite the fact that these efforts were made so often, I think to some, at least to some, that people may not fully understand what they are. I'm going to explain a little bit of the background, let me go into the matter, which I don't usually do, to read when I make a statement, but because it's a new concept and we're strangers, I'm going to let me do it. I'd like to go into the background first. This case is a product of the International Work of the Generals, sending delegates to meetings and conferences in the great world to converse with other people and to get to know what is being done there. So it is with interest that last year the United Nations Women's Summit signed a meeting. Among the things I got to know there was that machine to measure the actual equality of the sexes. As we all know or have at least any knowledge, there can be a wide range of rules about greeting and mass and counting heads, but they do not necessarily say everything about the actual equality, i.e. The performance of both senses of actual decision-making and the circumstances or places of making real decisions. That's why I won this bill, and it's now moved by me and other members of the council's left greens outside those of the Ministers' chairs. The proposal goes on to suggest that the General Assembly would assign presidents to establish the General's Homology Control, which will determine whether and how sex will influence decision making within the General Assembly, how governments's conclusions and actions on equality have been carried out, and would consider the sensitivity of the General Assembly to different sex positions according to the sexual sensitivity of the International Parliament's Association, IPU. There's the clues I referred to earlier, this measuring device. To ensure a wide range of views, members of the Generalist HST come from different angles. That work comes from representatives of both government and government, men and women. A representative of the Generals' office is a member of the group, as well as a representative of the Generals. They're going to consult with the O.R.P.A.P.D. The Rape report to the General Generals every 1st April, and the president gives the report to the General. The first report will be submitted by December 1, 2019. Especially will the workforce of the General Assembly be examined in relation to the interracial communication between the sexes. A respectable president. I've been talking about this measuring device, these references. The list that follows is a clear description of them and comes from these sexual - sensitive references made by the International Parliament. Among the information collected would be a list of women and men in the General Assembly, now and in the last eight years; a list of women and men in positions of influence within the General Assembly, now and in the last eight years; a list of members of the General Assembly in all sex-general committees, including those in positions of impact, such as members of the House and Precities of Congress, now and in the last eight years; a list of members of the General Assembly after sex, including in positions of impact, during the same period; the general Assembly of Congress; all laws associated with genders that have been adopted at the General Assembly in the last eight years; all of the programmes that are in place of gender; the list of women and influence in political groups; all political and political policies; and policies alike. Codes, anti-discrimination, communication policies, and the currently relevant programmes; what is subject to the UN's involvement in gender equivalent activities, e.g. Allegatory reports to members of the Committee on Women's Misjudgment and all the conferences on those reports, of the General Assembly in the work of the Governing Body, and of the annual meeting of the United Nations Women's Committee, as well as of all reports published by the United Nations for the past five years, affecting the status of the sexes. This is a fairly detailed list of points to be considered. Yet, he does not necessarily have to be exhaustive if at work it is found that more information is needed and included. On the basis of this, we find that we are taking the position, who it really is, considering the developments of the past few years, and especially all the approved, policies and conclusions we have made in these matters, and we weigh how it has been successful in carrying them out. The report reviews the situation only between the sexes according to the world's eruptions. I'm not going to read it all exactly, but I'm going to allow myself to point out, a respectable president, that a number of Congresss have taken up such a sensory watch that watches the sexes. In Finland there is a special committee on behalf of the council in these matters. Although I have sometimes been there in the conference hall and in the halls of the house, some feel that it is strange, as I have come on, that this is not something brand new, running up in the head of the body that is fixed on the table, but a device that is widely used and that seems to have given good experience. In recent years, the General has adopted various policies and strategies for equal rights. Yet, something is lacking in follow-up. For example, in the spring of 2015, a plan of equality was completed, but new ones were not approved until September 2016. Then there has not been a complete sexual act program since 2011. There are some factors that are anticipated to improve these matters, but this may show that we have not always viewed one plan that when it comes out, another will have to take over immediately, but it has often been a pause. The Rapporteur is aimed at evaluating the situation in these subjects and when necessary following, as well as identifying the sex situation for influence and assessment of the rules and laws relevant to sexual equality, what is called, by permission of the president, on the Anglo - Saxon Sanscitivity. It is necessary that the Council more closely monitor the development of this group than it is now. The General sent e.g. In 2017, for the first time since collapse, a representative of the United Nations Women's Committee for Women in New York. Then it was found that when the depression was severed, those here on machines felt that they could cut down. It made clear the importance of sex equality in the United Nations. In many ways, Iceland is a fine example, along with support for the struggles of women who are prepared to defend themselves because of poverty, strife, manry, and other factors. Thus, Iceland has a double role, exemplary, and immediate application, as well as a way to protect and assist others. A respectable president. This is not only to us who stand in this hall, the National Committee, but also to the General as a group, including the office, the staff. As far as the office is concerned, it is important to monitor the progress of work and gender in different field jobs at the council. In this regard, it is important to base on the work being done within the equal committee of the II Parliamentis office. The situation of staff is somewhat different from that of members of Congress, and there are other laws and regulations that can, for example, apply. directly affects the duties of the office in order to protect equal sex in recruitments andfs. However, sexual sensitivity refers to the International Parliament's entire body, both to the General Assembly as a democracies and to the legislature as well as to the Office of the Council as to the work of public employees. I'm going to allow myself, a respectable president, to inform me of my opinion that this approach is especially fascinating to me, that we view the Council as a whole more than we do, even though we do it in some way today, so we're all under this roofing and the many roofs that are around us, still at least, until a new building is raised, as a single body, whether we're representatives or we've just hired to operate. The General Assembly Department of Sex would be a progressive tool for the full equality of the sexes within the Generalis. With the term "generalist," a respected president, which I've developed somewhat, refers to references that identify people by gender, age, and economic background. For very interested senators, a website into the website of the IPU, the International Parliamentary Association, which explains these sex - sensitive points better. They are designed to demonstrate changes in the influence of women and men in a particular community and over a period of time. That's why this proposal looks back eight years. There could be another number, four years, sixteen, ten, but this is suggested as eight because these changes are to be considered over time. The bison are tools to evaluate the effect of intervention in the interest of gender equality. The gender data reveal whether both male and female patients are involved in all phases of activities. The approach allows for routine monitoring and annual assessments in the form of a report to the General. A respectable president. If this surrogacy proposal is agreed on here, as I have hoped to get something on, a new surveillance device on the actual position of the sex and whether there is a difference between the high Council and perhaps not least watching and evaluating the results and follow-up of the conclusions we have agreed on by ourselves and in the council, within the board, and in the reports we have given to the foreign organisations we are members and institutions where we often agree on. The first strike, a respectable president, I suppose it might take a while to get it together. Therefore, we take ample time to report our first report and make progress in the fall of 2019. But as one year has passed, and it has been done once, I don't talk about it twice, hopefully this will be a relatively automatic work, where it is simply weighed and determined what has happened in this year and what evolution is. We're talking for sex equality, and that's what I think everybody's talking about. Congress officials have made it necessary to welcome all new means to ensure that it will be the most important thing to do so. Since this case, a respectable president, is not only attracted to members of Congress but also even to the Directorate and Office of the Generals, I finally suggest that it be referred to the Board of Directors and Overseers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u46	Mr. President. I have to say, I think it's sexier stuff that has come into the council lately. This is not because I minimize the aim of a candidate to promote greater equality of the sexes, but I must admit that the approach in the matter is somewhat vague and not very selective. My comments are primarily involved. Yet, in this answer, I wanted to focus primarily on that question. 1st Customer to see if he counts - I'm just trying to figure it out and wait. A senator helping me figure out how he sees it made. The suggestion is not presented in a very clear way. President to set up an equal watch. Is this a council committee? Is this a commission from the council president? How does he see this? I read it this way that we should represent both the government and the government and then the personnel, and then I wondered about their position in the administrative context of the council, such as the case. That's what a traveler's been thinking. This is what I say for what I may come in later, that I have certain doubts that it is right to examine the affairs of the council in the way this is done. I think that there must be a very clear distinction between the positions of members of Congress and the roles they play in the council and, of course, the position of the members of the Parliament, as it happens in the matter itself, to have a completely different legal environment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u47	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. It turns out that I've long suspected, that he's more of a formalist than I am. This is good, for there must be a specific formality during the High Council. If only the approach is vague and not very specific. So here I am to be accused as the author of the proposal and report, which is specifically referred to in other countries as well as the way the International Parliament body suggests it. That's where I hope to be a guide for what's happened. A management and monitoring committee to shape this further. As I mentioned earlier, it's not something that's run up here. There's an experience in this in many other places, and I suggest that we look to what has been done there. Then comes the other remark. Councilman, how exactly this is going to be arranged in a administrative manner. Again, I leave it behind. The management board is to install it. I think here we are, in fact, going a new route towards the administrative organization of the Alliedis, which is the very same route. A senator here informed him that he was not interested. I just respect it for what. A senator. In this case, we do not agree to view the General Assembly as a unit in which both the heads of state and the employees will be viewed. The exact way, whether this will be a group of people, appointed both elected agents and staff, or not, is a bit different and not money to me. The methodology is not from me, it's the International Parliamentary Union, and there we see the National Congress as a single body, both staff and elected agents, because, despite the different conditions for our being here, we're all here at one place and the same place. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u48	Mr. President. I confess that I have not studied the evidence referred to in the report on the proposal, but, of course, it's more awkward for us who are trying to take a stand on the matter, not to see which other kinds of councils have approached, since experience is available elsewhere and that it is good. The other thing I'd like to justify is that members of Congress who are represented by the National Committee are in no way employees in the traditional sense of that word, not having rights or obligations on that basis, but having special obligations to their voters who choose them to operate on democratic grounds. In fact, I again express great doubts with the approach to looking at this, as if I feel that the proposal can be read, so that in some way you can compare or equalize the state of the Parliament with the members of the council in other ways. Of course, the law is very different. When considering the positions of men within the council in various roles, this fundamental difference must be kept in mind. Then I just wanted to throw it to the ground. 1st transporterman, whether of the many of the projects presented here, and of the general fairness policy, as I understand at least The latter part of the list here as if you are asking for an assessment of the effect of proposals in the field of equality, whether it is not a project that has a further place under the Communicator, Equal Opportunities as well as other such bodies within the management system that already have a role in this field. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u49	The president would like to remind the senators to give a speech lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u50	A respectable president. I'm sorry to hear that. A senator did not take the time to examine the evidence behind this suggestion, even though he had a little more time to make the first statement. Hopefully, he will be able to make time for that in the near future. Yes, there is a fundamental difference between my attitude and my attitude. When it comes to the General Assembly as a whole, there is a senator. I agree completely with what. A senator's position in the state of the Parliament is quite different from that of people who are employed. I thought I came into it in my speech earlier. But that doesn't change reality every day, which is that we're all here and we're dealing with each other. Now we're already what we're doing. A senator has finished the discussion later, and he may well delay us and get some food. That's where we're dealing with staff. It is a general body as a workplace. And although we a respectable senator may not be here as hired employees, this is still our job, this is our workplace. Therefore, this is an attempt to look at the Council, not after the high - heighted ideas of the council's weekend, but as the work where all of us, individuals, are in everyday relations. I know why. A senator is a great individualist, so he must support me in my approach. As far as the basic difference is concerned, I'm just respecting it. I'm long over it, a respectable president, to think I'm right in everything. But this is my opinion. What about the members who are to watch the position? [[The president calls.]] I think it's normal for the group who will come to this job to ask for information from the partners at any given moment. A senator listed earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u51	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you for the 1st. That's what I'm suggesting. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson, Ottar's son Proppér, for a fine review of the case. Also, I have to say, I've had quite a bit of fun listening to my partner's verbal exchanges. They don't agree with you, but I have to say that I understand a bit of both. [[Up front.]] That's why we may be cooperating, so it's good to get the candidates into things and discuss them from both sides. This is quite a list of tasks that need to be gleaned when we get to it. The conclusion is to assign the President to establish the General's sensory operation of the General Assembly, which will determine whether and how sex affects decision-making within the Generals, how the conclusions of the General Assembly and the government's plan on equality have been carried out and examines the sensitivity of the General Assembly for different sex positions according to the sexual sensitivity of the International Parliament. Sex sensitivity points. I must admit that this is a fairly new concept to me, and I'm trying to absorb it. Now I'm quite sensitive in many areas, and I'm fine with that. But then, people for information, I want to step down in the report that explains the concept, with the permission of the president: The term "generalization" refers to references that identify people based on gender, age, and social and economic background. They are designed to demonstrate changes in the influence of women and men in a particular community and over a period of time. The bison are tools to evaluate the effect of intervention in the interest of gender equality. The gender data reveal whether both male and female patients are involved in all phases of activities. The approach assumes a routine monitoring and annual assessments in the form of a report to the General. Many of these things are available, and most of them are available. We know something, chief. President, how many women and how many men are there? A few years ago, we were very aware that women's lot improved greatly at the General Assembly. More recently, this has been reduced. Somehow we need to understand what causes, what happens. How is it that there are more men in pointy groups, e.g. by category? Is it some kind of natural science? It's not. I come from a great equality class that has emphasized the equality issues and has taken big and good steps in them. There were rules regarding the list of oers, a set of proportion rules. Not everyone agreed that it was the right way, but I think now that the rules have been in force for a few years and that men have worked on them, if that makes us normal. There is no doubt that the sex share e.g. In art, it has to be equal. It comes with training and brings in the practice with us, because we've really had to practice it and get involved in it. This varies according to category. Here are a list of several points, a list of categories, so it should all be easy. In fact, I think we've got all this going on, we've done a lot of equality plans, both in place, in sex, age, etc. We do not need it, but what we need may be the perspective and harmony in how it works. That's why I can say the word "what." paritaprevir Kolbeinn Francis, Mr. Proppér Prope, that we need it. We need to know what's going on, and then let's figure out what didn't work out, what didn't work out, and why that happened. I'm sure there are a number of factors involved. There is no direct answer. The fact that many other councils have developed sensory factors is positive. We must always be able to learn from other national conventions and people in other lands, how they are. It is true that we are looked to in terms of equality. Our representatives are called in many places to discuss equality, since we are thought to be standing in front of them. But it's not over, it's a constant job. We have to stay on the watch all the time. We must always be aware that this is something we want to have. The situation today is not what I want my children to grow up with, either son or daughter. We need to go further. This is a parapolitic case, and this is the case of all of us to live and always talk about. But I can say anything. paritaprevir Birgir, Ármannsson of Aargis, says that this is a strange matter, should be viewed in some respects. The dream situation is that we do not need to be monitored or mentioned in order to view what is happening. It's supposed to be natural for us, but it's different. Then the question is, How are we going to make it, how are we going to follow it? Hv. A traveling overseer is a man of great concern, often in many parts of the world, and that is good. Then you can open things up and then a guy like that comes up. paritaprevir Picks up the Birgir's Ármannsson and nails it down. Then I'll take it easy. The members of the council up here, and we'll make this together and find a way between us. We work together, and we find the right way. I'm much more than ready for that. With the idea that it's one workplace, we come in here on different terms. Senators come in on grounds other than those hired here. But I can totally say that we're all under the same roof. The one that stands here is the project manager of the Olweus program for harassment. I had the privilege of being given the opportunity to bring them plans first to adult labor sites and experiment with them. Then, in my mind, what type of work culture can vary and is different, depending on the ratio of work and other factors. There are a number of things that are just routine and done. Then a new employee enters the workplace and falls automatically into some pattern. There is no particular thought behind it, no one is going to do bad things or do bad things. We always need to examine what culture is, what we allow, and what it is not. I can be sure that we senators are not very busy here if we don't have all this big, good staff with us. We're so lucky to have all this good staff working with us. All of us, I think, as human beings to see what we're sending from us, how we're working here, what we're going to do about this workplace about air and stuff like that. It is a question that each of us always faces, the understanding of being a decent person. This may not directly turn to gender justice - but it does. The point of this matter is of great interest. My opinion is that it's worth the effort. We always need to consider that matter. In contrast, the question is, Which way do we put it? Should we set another committee of surveillance and follow-up points that we would like and should be normal? Maybe that's what we need, maybe that's as far as we've gone. I'm not going to rule that out at all. It doesn't come to my mind, so simple isn't life. I'm very excited to see the progress. In view of our building this work on conversation and cooperation, I intend to invite my associates to the dining room to discuss matters, and perhaps we will join some of the members of the council. Thank you for bringing this up and calling attention to this important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u52	A respectable president. Thank you. A very good speech for a senator. He captured a lot more than what I wanted to say, but he didn't say himself. I particularly thank you for the positive suggestions and attitudes of what is happening, as I entered my talk, new to us even if they are known in the world. Like what? A senator came in with the need to stay on the watch at all times. There are some things I've had to learn, not known in many parts of the world as tools, tools, rules, and attitudes when it comes to improving the interests of most people and increasing the equality of the sexes. It's always good to learn and look at things that are going well elsewhere, and not be afraid to try: Is this working or don't work? And then: Is this exactly the way, or do we have something to shift it into? A senator came in handy? I made the most of a silent decision, a respectable president, because of shock. A senator asked: Should we set up another committee? Without it. A senator gave some information as to whether it was right or wrong, but I would like to reiterate that this is not a great committee with some kind of order or structure. Like what? The senator described it so well, it is simply being put together all the information, that a person is responsible for it, about the situation as discussed here in detail. Then it will be just one annual report, almost one annual report. Although there is no particular committee or cover - up, it is certainly necessary to be one of the bonds responsible for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u53	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. I think there's a lot of things we just agree on. What I'm wondering about the magnitude of this is that we have a list of everything. We're trapped if we don't have a gender ratio, it comes from outside, and we're also supposed to have kept it from there. We'll set up rules, we've set up, for example. Code. I'm not quite sure we did the right thing, and actually I don't think we did it right. We never directly settled in order to agree on certain rules as a group. If I sit down and participate as an individual in making some rules and frames about my workplace, I'm more responsible for the follow-up. That's what I'm feeling. That does not apply to something I take from the heart, when you are the right rules that you should do well and apply. The sex-separation issues have been filtering in. Happily, we are far from what it was like here once when the first women were fighting for their rights, the first individuals. But there's always gonna be a setback, it's a constant job, it's something we always have to hold on to. But if you're here to be some special surveillance group, I realized at a time that it should be like that, you might think, "Obbbub, there's the inspector, now I have to watch myself." It's not supposed to be like that. But for some time, it may need it. We need to set the frames. I fully agree that we should look to other countries, other nations, and we should not be afraid to learn, and we should take to heart the knowledge and apply it where we can. There I wholeheartedly agree. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u54	A respectable president. They're more of an encore than a question of what we're saying. A senator, yet I chose to come back to explain the thought behind it even more clearly as I had the opportunity to have a straight word. A senator before all three of us move to the dining hall as ordered. I had a business meeting at the '78 Associations' office the other day, and that included me. Show an overview, a map created by the organization every year, a poster that sets up countries according to the rights of queer people of all ways in that country. Iceland is still number five, six or seven, England could be seen, etc. This is no special group, or committee, or committee, of one or another, and let alone an invitation. Rather, it is simply taking over the organization, and then their sisters worldwide, together with a list of the positions. Behind this is information that is similar to the one listed here. What's the real situation? What's the policy? What's the situation in law and law? How have policies been implemented? Plus, what we all see in here, it's not gonna take long to make a list of women and men who live at the General. He's in total sleep. Hence, it is not here that some extensive research needs to be done. Rather, it will simply become an annual status check. What's the situation now from last year? What has happened?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u55	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored, or whatever the case may look like. I even think we're getting a lot better with this conversation here. It is true, though, that it is very easy to pick from the arts of the Alleglers, the commission, and so on. It says that there should be a list of all the programs that are in force for gender rights, which I think is just very good, where they are, when they were started, what the follow-up was, and if there is any agreement in these matters with us. This is something I can easily say would be good to do. The list of women and men in positions of influence in political parties? It's simple, it's good, but I also think it's every political power to work in its own business and pursue its own policies, to put its mark on the work force. Yet, there is nothing wrong with an overview. Then there's one point for all governments, government policies and groups of government and anti-neighbourg groups. It all goes down, it's all the plans we take. I think that on the basis of this, we all agree on these matters. I'm afraid to say that. All of us want the best for our offspring, for our children and grandchildren. We want them to live in equality and live in a society where girls and boys have equal opportunities. It's no science to see it because we all want to be decent people and improve our community. One more point to be considered is: any WHO policy that affects gender equality (e.g. Codes, anti-discrimination, protocols) and the currently relevant programmes. Then we'll just get back to the fact that we need to have a perspective on this, see the convergence, and know where we're headed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u56	V.E.G. President. I can say with what. paritaprevir The rest of Þórunn's Egilsdóttir, all of us would like to contribute to equality. On the other hand, despite having a good cause, we should not give ourselves a discount of a clear statement and reasoning. What gets on my mind in this case is that there are a lot of different things going on around here. I mentioned earlier that I thought that it would be necessary to make a clear distinction between the status of the elected senators, the elected politicians who here have rights and responsibilities, the authority of their voters, and the laws and regulations that apply to the position of public employees. If such an approach is to be made, this needs to be considered. The role and role of other governments need to be considered in this regard. We now have a minister who has a administrative obligation in terms of equality and follow-up programmes on equality. In general, the role of the President of the Generals is not to monitor how to implement conclusions on this subject rather than on others. In addition, we have a special government, an equal rights agency, a DC as well as a number of others, whose role is to monitor the situation in general. As we approach this matter, we also need to think: What are we looking at in this relationship that turns toward the Allied organization, as an institution, or as a workplace, if we want to say it, and what is involved elsewhere in society? Then, then, and what. The first transporter gets me right if I'm wrong, that's to come to my attention, especially when we look at the latter part of the list listed here in the suggestion, whether we're looking at these issues, this evaluation of policies and plans, legislation and other sources of equality, including, or out of the World Hall as the Workplace or Institute, or whether we're thinking about the community as a whole. When we say that it is the responsibility of the albino effort to examine each of the Generals' policies that affect gender equality, is it just sex equal rights within the council or gender equal rights in the community? Protocols - Is there a strategy that only concerns the council or society as a whole? This is even more relevant when the last time we see fit to refer to the International Parliament's reporting and to international coverage and to all reports published by the United Nations and to touch the status of the sexes. What I'm thinking is that in order to achieve the noble goals that the candidates no doubt aim to, it may have to be shaped, explained, and sharpened so that the subject is somehow tangible and manageable. I miss a little of the suggestion not to tell how a local convention is approaching this subject and how they form it. Otherwise, there is a chance, so I speak from the bottom of my heart, that the matter will just go out and south, because there is an effort to cover so many things in a certain way. My criticism of the case is very clear. to. If I was to respond to this, I'd say that before taking this matter any further, whether it's done at the administrative and monitoring committee or anywhere else, it would have to be a little more organized for each subject. Is it just supposed to reverse the council? They refer to political parties in general. Should the council monitor political parties? Try to determine if there are men or women in political groups in positions of influence? It must depend on something outside of the council, if you can read this in any context. Is that what we want? Are we thinking that this watch should monitor the implementation of an action program approved by the council? Is that what it's like to be doing for the President of the Council? There are these questions that we need to try to figure out before we take it any further. Then we can say that, of course, it's normal and that there's statistics, and that's why it's published in the same way that I think it has now been done on the council website, over the number of genders and such, i.e. how many women sit in the assembly, how many women there are mentioned, and so on. It may take no more than a tip to those who keep their nose around the meeting's Web site in order to promote these statistics. But it can be more food and demand some evaluation when trying to identify who are at positions of influence and who are not. If we are to assess the formal event and the real effect, we are talking about some social study that I'm not sure is in the workspace of the Generals. I'd now say I'm against this case as it stands to say. I do not deny that this will go to the management and monitoring committee and get the publicity it needs. On the other hand, I feel that this is where the first issue takes place. if these views appear, so that the following issue can be realized - or at least try to work together on it - what work really needs to be done to help, not just another conclusion about good goals.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u57	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's practical and useful tips that I think will be useful to. Board of directors and patrols well at their jobs. However, I am overwhelmed by the fact that I feel like a boy. However, a senator cannot contact the thought in this suggestion. Maybe it's too novel for what. A senator. I feel that he is making a requirement that either we are looking outside or inwardly when, at the beginning of the synonym, what its purpose is, to look beyond and within, by permission of the president: ...to establish a sensory watch, not an equalizer, which will determine whether and how gender will affect decision-making within the Generals, how the World Council and Management Plans of Equal Opportunities have been carried out -- and look at the sensitivity of the General Assembly for different sex positions - - -- should we say that it is out and out? It's a recent methodology. It is developed at the scene of the International Parliament. There is good reason for a senator to apply more closely to the work of the Committee how this has been done exactly in other councils. It may not be enough to have links in this report to this reference by the International Parliament. I take it to myself and learn from it, so it's time to put good food into work at the moment. Board of Directors and Follow-up Committee. It's only about what it's like. A senator was told to monitor the rest and these institutions. This is, in fact, just talking about taking the facts together.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u58	Mr. President. I think it would be useful for us to separate in this case what is on the other hand just a summary of statistics - that doesn't need to put any special work into, but would be a simple recommendation to make the General Intelligence Department take up the statistics and publish on the II Parliament's website - and other aspects that involve food. We are faced with a more complex task. It's a big opinion in my opinion whether or not it belongs to the president of the Senate or any other member of the council. In our administration directive, we expect there to be various people who in general have the responsibility to monitor the status of equality and issues that involve gender equality in various ways and for no reason have to assign the President of the Parliament to have a special role in these matters. Of course, the chairman of the council must have a role that focuses on the activities of the Generals and hence on what we can say to look inside. If we want to go outside statistics and try to discern in some way the impact of the sexes, I allow myself to doubt that it is right for the President of the Parliament, even though it may be an interesting social study. This can be viewed in a variety of ways. [[The president calls.]] But I think a sharper understanding and a sharper projection would help.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u59	A respectable president. A sharper understanding and a better job description would help the case -- so it ended. A senator's case. I agree with him as far as the second part is concerned, a more efficient project description would help the case. I think me and what. A senator simply disagrees. It's not that we misunderstand or anything like that. We simply disagree on the methodology whether or not to be sharper. I may be thinking about the traditional issues of the Generals and how they've been thinking so far. Well, that's just the way it is. This will test our endurance and how open we are to make things new. But I reiterate that this isn't something I used to cook up on the couch in my house when I didn't bother to watch TV. It's a real device that's in use, and it's a good tip. A senator's better understanding of what it's like. But the real device is based on the fact that there is not that sharp understanding that all of this is underneath. Hv. A senator will simply disagree with that methodology, which is an honest opinion. But demanding a sharper return actually violates the idea. Hv. A senator was told that the president of the council did this and that and whether he was the right person. Here we list who should be; government, government opposition, men, women, council office, staff representative, consultation with an equal committee. That's the thought, trying to expand it. A respectable president. I would have - I'm sorry I sinned on my own with time - you could ask for a report asking to take it together. But then I would have had to do it next year and next year and the next. [[The president calls.]] The idea is that it will only be a report that comes automatically every year.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u60	Mr. President. I can't rule out that I and what. A senator may basically disagree on the approach of this matter. I was trying to talk me in the direction that we could find a common surface on it, but I do not rule out that we find ourselves in that place that we simply disagree that this is a matter that should go over, even if we can agree that equality is desirable and necessary for us, both in our jobs within the council and in the legality and in the planning and in the rest of the community. I'm building my presentation on a very clear and strong point of approach. I appreciate it so much that the factors they're listing, and simply bowing to taking up statistics, are that it does not necessarily require a synonym or treatment at the council to bring it about. In fact, I think there are more and less statistics, and it may just be a question of the presentation of the II IIlis website how it is done. If I recall correctly, a considerable effort was made in connection with the 100th anniversary of women's voting rights in 2015 and could be maintained if not. I haven't looked at it in a while. But when it comes to other factors, I make a comment primarily on what we call a shift, or a committee or a job, for the President of the Senate, this general role should be followed by plans and policies in the area of equality in society beyond the whole. Then I'd say, "No, it's normal that there are other members of the board who are on that watch, and they already have a legal role. "
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u61	Mr. President. I am one of the importers to this proposal for the resolution of the General Hygiene Hyge and I would like to say a few words on this matter, especially after the verbal exchanges that have taken place here. I think this case is very important, and I think it is very important that it is presented here in the form of a concierge to make a list of the information collected at one place of the sex status at the General Assembly. It is true that the list can, of course, be taken together and published somewhere on the Internet. But in my mind, a political theme is made up of a resolution made by the Council. This is to say: We believe that it is important that this be held together and that it is published. To me, an equal society does not just come out of the ground, but we need to work on it. Iceland's position is certainly good in international comparison. But that is why it is also so important to watch for changes and changes in which direction. Of course, they can cause women to control everything. It's just something we need to keep an eye on. Therefore, I believe it is important that this be presented as a policy from the Council, to want to do this. I think it's important that it includes other employees as well as not just our national standing. It's a complicated, complicated place -- I'm not saying work. It is an overexhaustible, complex place where there is also a very complex, complex communication between people who can simply have a very different position of power within the house. I think it's important to try to get the same thing. As mentioned in the case of what? paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttar's son, Proppé, a 1st transporter, has been implemented by others. Please refer to the International Parliamentary Union in this regard. I think that's what we're gonna do. It is not difficult to list the details of the report, which has been missed from the report on this matter, how it is handled. I believe that if the political will is at hand, it's not a big deal to set this up. It would be our community and ours as the General, this institution, both legislature and employment, for our benefit.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u62	A respectable president. I just want to draw attention to the fact that Piratar and I are sometimes listed as the left class of right men on the community talk. I'd like to draw attention to the fact that we're voting against this case and the Independence Party by it, so that it's transferred to a book.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u63	Madam President. Two o'clock. I asked the highest subject. Minister for 2 mg. 2.g. which says, by permission of the President: In his work, a guide must assist the authorities in carrying out their work. I pointed out to the minister that it would be desirable to explain this law more precisely, by what means, by whom guides are to assist, to assist police and customs, rescue teams? Laws should be clear and direct. I would have chosen, and the highest. A minister mentioned that he was going to see that this had been discussed on the committee, but this has clearly not been done in this discussion. I believe that this should have been a clearer and more disappointing conclusion that it was not yet considered. Other than that, I support this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u64	A respectable president. I bring here a bill to correct the change in nature protection law, No. 60/2013, trash in public, fines. Along with me, this case is Brontís Haraldsdóttir, Sæland Góranson, Óli Björn Kárason, and Vilhjálmur Árnason. This bill is accompanied by a brief report. Before I put it on, I'm going to read these two changes that we're going to make on two of the laws. 1st par. The bill reads: "After 1. 17th par. The law comes a new paragraph, as follows: Anyone passing through the highlands and highways of the country is forbidden to dispose of waste in public areas except in a container. This is a violation of this law for punishment, sir. 90st Two. says: ▪ After 2 mgr. 90. gt. The law has a new paragraph, as follows: It's about a man's fines to a minimum of 100,000 dollars. if he violates 2 mg. 17 gt.How can I help you?....................... Then we expect these laws to take effect when the bill is approved. The brief report states: "This was introduced to a 143th legislature and to a 145th legislature. - For information, it was Guðlaugur Þórðarson, the present minister of foreign affairs, who gave the case anyway, for the second time. A drug dump that is thrown out on the open field is obvious to the environment. By allowing such conduct to go wrong, we damage the value of Icelandic nature. It is known that high fines need to be paid for disposal of waste on a field. The bill proposes legal action to keep nature clean and to improve our thinking. I assume that as soon as this discussion is over, the bill will go to the finish. Environment and Transport Committee. Such a general approach, just from one's own heart, is amazing to observe how unconcerned people are about society, of course not nearly all, but few wasted who place very much heat on the environment. I notice this in my hometown, and when you come to another town, there are times when there are lots of trash around the weekend and maybe at night. It has to be said, as it is, that there is little way in which young people often walk around the environment. I've noticed that especially. This year, I have been through my district very much, and I have now walked nearly 700 miles [700 km] on the highways of the country and this district. I have to say, as I'm surprised to hear that those along the way in the country seem to use the environment as a trash can. A lot of empty drinks and bottles that you've been picking up and putting in bags and giving up when you're drunk. A general sense of awareness is fundamentally needed to show respect for it. But I'm not sure we'll make it unless we pick up the fines. This bill, of course, is a violation of these laws. I feel that it is because humans have simply given up on appealing to the common sense. So I put in this bill and, as previously indicated, refer to it. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u65	Madam President. I come up here to ask you what. 1st. , Ásmundur Friðriksson, a little more specific on this bill. First, I want to say that I agree that trash should not be thrown in public and that we want to control the way it should go. It is possible to talk about it. Either way, here's where it's at. A senator and coauthor propose. It's one of the primes that leads to other legal issues. I simply didn't have time to read the laws that this changes, which are the laws on nature protection, No. 60/2013. So I'd like to ask you why. A candidate in the context of this law. Two. The bill says that if a person violates 2 mg, he is guilty at least 100,000. 17th par. The law. I need the tiny context it puts in. Is this the case if people are disposing themselves of waste and garbage somewhere in public or are the same as when an unwise person throws away a caramel letter, which he or she is not supposed to do and raised to prevent? Does this get the same way if a kid throws out a caramel letter on the open field? I think the context means something to me. I could not read the whole article, but I feel that this is important in the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u66	I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir's Question. Actually, I don't have the law in front of me, so I can't read it directly. This does not mean when people are driving and see a caramel letter coming out of the window, though it's naturally completely crazy that it should happen. For the most important part, it is when it comes to the environment. We've noticed, and then I quote my experience, that at a time when a currency began incineration of the Southwaters, people were throwing garbage in the wilderness. There they drove cars to save themselves some bucks to spend their garbage. That's what we're primarily talking about. Regarding the other fine laws quoted, we believe that in order to scare people not to throw ruined sofas in public, when it costs a few dollars to put them in garbage baths, the people need a fine penalty. It is the primarily thought behind this. We are simply adding a law of guilt into other excellent laws to make them work better than we feel they have done so far. I'm sorry, but I don't have the law column right next to me, so I can't read from it before it goes. To get the context of things, which would have been more right from me.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u67	Madam President. I appreciate the answers. Of course, it could be a lengthy discussion of the presentation of the Parliament documents, for it may be a little difficult to figure out what changes are being made, but we will take that discussion some other time, not in a discussion of a particular bill. Thank you. A senator once again for explaining what he really sees, whatever this bill should do. However, I wonder, and I would like to use a second answer to ask a question. A senator sees how he sees the inspection to be handled, whether he has considered the matter. If I get it right, all those who travel through the highlands and highways of the country are spoken of. See what? A senator visualizes some sort of police in the highlands watching for waste? I'm not asking about this in order to be boring or trying to talk the matter down, because as I said before, I agree that we need to stop littering from being thrown all over the place. However, the most effective methods and ways to do so are still to be considered. I can see why. A senator has pondered these matters. [[The president calls.]] That is why I call for a little more meat on my bones because the work is not very long or detailed and cannot be read out of it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u68	Thank you, my dear. paritaprevir The Steinunn of Þóra the Year's Árnadóttir. It's true that there's not much money to be making on the report, so I took it up straight the way it was done before. It cannot be explained in detail in a Senate Hall or in a brief paper on how such supervision would be conducted. I think, for example. that in the highlands, guards would need to be able to observe how people walk and be able to identify the police. It's very easy for us senators to set laws and then just turn them to the police and say that she'll handle this. We hear from other talks that the police are busy, that there aren't enough people, and that they have a job to do but watch for who's throwing garbage. I point out that we too need to examine ourselves. It's not long since I drove after a car in my hometown, and then a flying out of the window a big bag marked a restaurant in town, a large plastic bag with all the gas in it. I pulled over and took the bag. Then I drove along the car until the driver stopped, ran out, and caught his attention that he had lost his bag. Of course, I had no choice but to point out that the driver was losing valuable things, the garbage that was supposed to be in places other than in the street where the public drives around. So this is also to draw our attention to the environment and to prevent us from allowing our neighbors to walk around as he pleases. I am completely aware that it will be difficult for the police to improve that sort of surveillance. Still, we need to have ways of dealing seriously with the individual with the police, so that the fines of the law work and the power of the law work on the wasteers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u69	Madam President. Thank you. An aviator, Ásmundur Friðriksson, for the history of the city and for the Shippings for presenting this case. I believe that there is a very important message in the context of communication and protection by nature. But I'd like to go inside. A senator will determine whether the wording is found in Article 1. the bill is unnecessaryly narrow, i.e. The highlands are spoken of. That is specifically defined and is not necessarily applicable, e.g. About a Capitol or a national park or something like that. The wording should be a little wider, e.g. To speak of the nature of the land, and of the field, and of the like, to meet these wastes, as well. A senator called them, wherever they trashed, let's say? Because it's certainly not just in the highlands, it's not just around the highways, it can be more common. We can take a region like one of the natural enemies of the capital area, Verifications, where people like to choose, unfortunately, to dispose of waste in thoughtlessness and leave it behind. I think this could be extended a little. I wondered how the senator feels about the situation, whether he feels it was wrong. The environment and transport committee should take a special look.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u70	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson for this inquiry. It's a very good point, and I appreciate that tip. I hope so. The Environment and Transport Committee also gives me some sense of this and corrects the text as necessary. I totally agree, you're just right. I also feel that it is important that we show up here that, of course, our country has become quite different and better than it was. I left, for example. in a national news report in the fall and noticed that no man was driving a car outside a road, no one was throwing out garbage. When I started at sea 1972, when I was 16 years old as a chef, everything was thrown into the sea. It was just a bucket in the hatch, and it was all thrown into the sea. I've been to sea many times since then and left last summer. You can't think that there will be something going in the water. We have a lot of awareness, and the whole environment has become cleaner. That's why it's much more prominent when one and one waste goes along like that. It is absolutely true that a captain would direct it into the committee's work to expand this and that he would have spoken in general terms and look for ways to avoid the use of fines. It should be natural to walk about the community and nature of our country and our immediate environment that it is clean and beautiful around us as we would like to have it, and we walk around with our neighbors as we would like it to be around our homes, lands, and lands.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u71	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. In the second answer, I'd like to ask you a question. A member of a container, whether or not such containers will be placed in some way, either along the roads, common highland roads, or walk in parks, or if such containers will be provided for tourists to form at retails in the area of these places that they could then take along and return. Or what depression is there in this material? This need be while we set such rules that we make it easier for people to follow them. Second, I'd like to ask who. A member of the Parliament into the judicial principle referred to in Article 1. 90th bill. Natural protection laws. Penalties of Punishment 90, par. is quite a factor, however, transporters make a suggestion in Article 2. The bill to add a paragraph to 90. "Gr., as indicated by the bill." I'd like to introduce the senator, depending on whether or not the points of Article 1. The bill applies primarily to the new paragraph being added, or to the 1st paragraph. The bill is a general reference to 90th par.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u72	A respectable president. Thanks for that. I'd think it was a general statement. I'm not a lawyer, but lawyers have gone over it, so I trust them more than I appreciate it. I think this is rather a general reference to it. About how we're going to make sure that people get their garbage away. A lot of places I go around are bottle packs, e.g. ... intheSeamen's pools. There people can get rid of bottles. We all get bags in store stores. We see that foreigners, especially tourists, go shopping and shop for food and prepare meals in open areas. There's a lot of garbage. Happily, many areas of life are in a position to dispose of garbage. There may be other areas to be needed, and it may need to be adjusted. I tell you honestly that this adjustment does not tell you exactly how the surveillance should be or where to dump garbage. I think that's where the communities come in. It takes a solidarity for all of us. We're just pushing people and encouraging them to walk around. If they're not going to do that, we'll have to say, " We're just going to fine you. ' Of course, it's a long way to fine a man a hundred thousand bucks, so you might come to the neighbor and say, "Wait, I'll fine you or sue you. " I think it's a good conscious awakening to finish these laws, bring in the guilt and hope that it will lead to a better deal for all of us, the public. Then the purpose is reached.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u73	V.E.G. President. I'd like to thank the movers and the first courier, Friðriksson, for bringing in this case. As noted in the case of people, the natural world has become an enormous wake of awareness and a change in people's attitude toward garbage. For a long time, a saying of the sea would take a long time, and it seemed natural to go a reasonable distance from the sea and let a number of things burst into the sea because you didn't see it any more. Or not, probably carried something to the beach again. But the garbage has to do with the natural man. It has large solutions, and it has become a major industry that has become a major source of income - garbage has its own value. That's a lot of work. What I'm just wondering is how it's presented. It is very pointed and short, but it may be that it needs a little more explanation. It says here, by permission of the President: ▪ Any who travel through the highlands and highways of the country are forbidden to throw waste in public areas except in a container. This is a violation of this law for punishment, sir. 90st It's in itself clear, but I wondered if it's not a little limited, to specify just the highlands and highways of the country. What will be the result? Sounds like they're ready to think about this. Despite a deep sense of consciousness, however, people lose out on such things as shock. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson mentioned earlier, people even lose their whole garbage bags with their packaging out of their car windows. That's when it's a good time to be on the watch. A senator picking up and coming to the rightful owners. Many have done these things, and even people give themselves over to them and go on special trips to pick up and record garbage, and many have become living in a way of life. We are happy that this will happen. You can't see today as normal, that cars are being cleaned from ash trays down to the pipe gate and thrown out garbage here and there. This is not normal. So when you see something like that happen, it's a little in the eye. Nevertheless, the situation in these matters is still being realized. Many responded badly when they had to pay for garbage and pay for what they were bringing to the garbage company. I still think it's going to be normal for us, and I think it's a personal thing. We may begin to think more deeply about buying a product, wondering what kind of package we get it in. Many turn down store packaging. There's a lot we can buy without bandages. I think it's a lot of normal for us, and we can do our part in that regard. Then, at times, we get a little bit quick and sad as we start looking at the bigger picture. There are huge wrappings that concern us and many of the things that follow. The discussion has now been about how much one small plastic bottle weighs against something much bigger. But then we come to the point where each of us must be responsible for our actions and our immediate environment and must be responsible for it. Many little things do one big thing, as they like to say. I have sound evidence that humans are taking advantage of circumstances. Now, for example. In many parts of the earth, some people do not have enough land to have the warm, warm garages with light. Then I know of them that are afraid of them: I know of them which are west, to use them in the wilderness, to change the mufflers, and many in the cars. It's the finest situation and people are just saving themselves and making good use of it. That in itself might not be wrong as long as it does not make any danger. But then it may be minimal good time not to leave behind the items that have been used, since it will come down on the Roadmaker to pick them up and put them away. It is in the hands of the Roadmaker to keep the tunnel clean and clean. But this I know has been happening and it's not good. The road probably has something else to do with what it has to do with the money it has to do but to be picking up worthless car parts. But this is just an indication to show how diverse it is. In addition, people have even been saving money to pay their return fees and have forgotten whole sofas somewhere along remote roads. We all know that. It's happened. We may not all know it, but we have seen it. Likely, we need to consider how to set territory down, how to set the place down. Sure there are public waste containers. Their presence is becoming more and more common. For those who walk around the world, a growing group of people, you may think, " If I can carry the package with me with something in it, I must be able to carry it to the end of the world empty. ' That's more like it. But then I wondered about the fines. Is that realistic? Who's supposed to be in it at the Watch? Are we to be individually in the parking lot? Should we get some apps? We could send them a message, saying, "This is what I saw throwing out garbage. " I don't know. There's a way to get this done. I think the police, as the situation is now, may have more to do. Still, this needs to be discussed, and it is very good to discuss these matters. This is one of the things we always have to record to keep conscious of these matters and never forget, for what each one of us does is important. I can't wait to see what's going on here. It may be a little off, but it matters to all of us, and I want to thank the movers for bringing this in here and giving us a chance to think about these things.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u74	Madam President. We're discussing nature protection here, and that's good. Sometimes it is said that the simplest measure of nature protection or environmental protection is just trash in public. I believe over the last 10, 20 to 30 years, there was a serious problem in Iceland, garbage in public. It has been listed here - packaging, food residues, glass fragments, business and homes waste, and even toxic chemicals, electric or anything else, these are processed items, equipment, materials of repairs, property, timber and the like, and the whole wrecks here and there in the wild. That's what we all know. As shown in the bill, such association is in the urban area, near the city, along the road in the country and in the highlands. It's usually about that people are protecting themselves from taking it to certain reception sites, saving money, saving trips, saving time, and thus counting it fatal. I'm not even talking about anything else that I make sometimes, I just say it clean out, get on my nerves, but there's shit on my own, whether it's in rural areas or towns. It's in possession of property or rented property, it's a very special dart to improve the quality of it. She's gotten a lot better, but it's still quite a long way in the country with it, a lot of people get better. Many of us here in the capital city believe that public waste is plenty. I'm not going to give an example, but it's true, like any of these substances, that in the most complex places there is a tendency for trash to be more visible than in other parts of the world. In general, how to react to garbage culture. A natural cleansing process is needed. Although we are going to change people's attitudes, it usually takes a considerable amount of time, so cleaning is needed, whether in urban areas or abroad. Of course, the most important thing is to improve the environmental awareness of very many people and tourists, for I have often seen that many tourists are just as careless or careless as with the local people, and it is in themselves something that is more difficult for us to deal with because we may not even meet them. It only comes here and is traveling far and wide around the world. Anyway. However, this is a smaller part of people's brain taken than always, when they go outside this approved frame, the mass is considerable. I'd like to cover matters of consciousness, of the environmental awareness, and remind you that there are fines abroad, of course. I have, for example. Been in Singapore, where you even thought it was enough. Not even the birds could be given. You got 500 Singapore dollars in a fine if it got out and the surveillance was pretty much there. Here's a new plea of guilt. Well, that's what we're talking about here in many ways, should we go this way, and in what way or not, because it's new? And under surveillance - if we take the highland itself, it turns more or less on highways in the highlands - there are police and land prices in these places, both on the highways of the country and on the highlands, so, of course, there is a survey, but it's a question of whether to increase it. That would be a matter of money. On the other hand, it is good to have a law, or law, a law of some kind, or a law of punishment, because it has the power to do so. Such fines are even higher, but they are vital points that we will discuss better. The other core thing I would like to discuss is, of course, education. It must be assumed that such a change will follow our council members and lawgiver's plans for education - let's just call it propaganda in these respects, and it costs a price. There we see possible projects that need to be handled that will cost some money. When it comes to better cleaning, it's something that has to do with all, the owners of homes and companies and institutions. I've never really understood it in myself. Take a restaurant, it's open after night, and people go out to smoke, even have a beer in their hand, and so on. If city authorities or local authorities do not come and clean, it is rare for the owners of the company that was selling the product to go outside and pick this up. This may take ten minutes or 15 minutes or less. That thought, of looking out a little bit of its property and taking place there, is far removed from us but very common in many parts of the world. Then rural areas and the city authorities and others, those with tourist attractions, hotels, or places that are common as tourist decision - making sites, of course, have to be handled by natural beauty. I would also encourage the existence of a blue army like the one walking along shores and raising plastics and other items; he would also exist in the highlands and in the open field. I know these volunteer groups have gone around, but it would be nice to see some organization on it, some sort of blue army would be fun in this case. Then we came to the highlands and various destinations and containers. This is relatively easy, since we are near the highways and whereby relatively short - term waste is being taken up. A container, of course, must be cleaned even every day or more, or take them to reception stations. Where there is less of such things, and in the highlands, I think the rule should be that people take the waste with them, i.e. what is in such a way that it can be taken along. This is a universal rule in national parks in many parts of the world, and it can be extremely strict. In the Galapagos Islands, the natural viewer must not take anything into that area, nor must he take anything from this area. If there is something that he needs to use or some trash that he finds, he should take it with him and return it to his own building to welcome stations. That's a pretty good rule, so to speak. We are here primarily on a bill facing highlands and highways, which is, of course, because this particular change is called on nature protection laws. It has, of course, been found that this should be something bigger than that. It is on the outside and on the ground, I agree with the underlying thought. This might be more detailed. The implementation of these ideas and organizations related to them will be further considered. I won't even know what to do. Environmental and transport committees deal with this. Of course, she's doing her best. At any rate, the start point has been revealed here in a very urgent public discussion, whether in the country or in the wilderness, and that is to be attributed to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u75	A respectable president. I'm going to start by saying that I haven't finally formed a decision on this matter, but I like it very quickly. The warning that I would like to deal with it, and what I'm going to be controlled by a bit of my position is whether this guilt is in accordance with a moderate measure, i.e. The rule not to go beyond what is necessary to reach a certain goal. As I'm saying, I think the matter is in a hurry, but this is something I would like to take a closer look at when it comes out of the question. Environmental and transport committees and to the 2nd. What makes me so happy is that I feel that it reflects that there is no longer much controversy in the community on the importance of nature protection. People may differ about what nature is or how we weigh between nature protection and economic growth or implementation, but the foundation is that everyone agrees on the importance of nature protection in the sense that there is no one here, saying: It doesn't matter. No one does. In fact, this comes mainly from independents and from some who are more liberal at that point. paritaprevir What I find a little difficult about the matter, however, and now I try not to belittle it; it is not my goal to minimize the matter because I feel that the subject of the bill is important, that I feel that it is a little reflective that politics and governments are too long to respond to the rapid change in society. This is the nature of institutions, such as the Generals, and in reality, because governmental institutions that are supposed to be democratic must develop slowly. They need to work slowly so that they will agree on the importance of using that institution to correct society. It's something we take for granted in Icelandic society. For example, after the 2008 financial collapse, and the so - called bulimic revolution, there was no one who said: "Get away with the Allied. " I'm gonna take over Iceland and figure this out for myself. Nobody said that. The people who wanted to make changes volunteered for the Generals. This involves respect for that institution in its nature and belief that things can be changed here. But the problem is that it happens very slowly. This is really a matter that we should have discussed and approved in some form decades ago, because it so happens that there are other changes in our environment that cannot be described as overwhelming and that are climate change. A respectable president. I hope I'm not going outside the material in the president's opinion, but even if I didn't agree with it, I'm going to use the rights because nature protection and reducing climate change is no less than a question about the survival of our animal species, the survival of human society as we know it on the whole planet, the only thing we know today to build. Well, I hope that changes one day. We may be able to build on other planets, but it is likely that it is not possible because the speed and amazing genius of human beings to produce things and to make clever, pleasant things could become our lovely animal species too much. The context to this bill is that it acknowledges that we should not damage our environment and secondly acknowledge that those who destroy our environment should pay for it. It's supposed to hurt to ruin the environment, it's supposed to be bad, people should feel a little uncomfortable with it. It's the message on the bills like this, and it's necessary. But for some reason when it comes to climate change, the reasons I'm going to mention, it's not as much of a country as you would think. That's because of the slowness I talked about at the General Assembly earlier. There is now a report, entitled IPPC report, 2018. This is not a report from some left-handed hippie somewhere in a mountainhouse that is trying to promote their social affairs. This is a report prepared and compiled by the world's most advanced scientists and brought forth together by people with all kinds of background, with different interests at stake. The conclusion is not that climate change and our part of it is something we may need to worry about. It's not like that. Climate change is happening right now, today. The sea is heating up, the acidity is changing for the worse, very fast, because of us, because we're letting greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. This is as confirmed as it can be in this article. It's not a theory. In everyday matters, you would call it a fact, though with the premonition that in a scientific sense you should handle it very carefully, which means something accurate. But in everyday speech, it might be called a fact. No one who knows the matter, even a little bit, should doubt it. Sadly, mankind's relationship with the truth is surprisingly strange and ironic, as is still the case with the most incredible religion. People who want to believe, if appropriate, if they believe in it, are prepared to believe in it, if they have the power to believe it, or if they are comforted by believing it. It is not a fault of all religions. Rather, I am pointing out that no matter what people believe, the more part of mankind believes something else, which must be nonsense to each of us, since no religion has a pure share. This strange relationship between mankind and the truth means that mankind and, especially, leaders in very important industrialized countries, such as the United States and Brazil, do not take the problem seriously, minimize it. The President of the United States, who I'm not going to talk about here very much because it took the whole month, called it a Chinese conspiracy. We are in a place where the president of the United States, probably the most important leader in getting organizations like the United Nations and other nations over to do something together, publicly states that the biggest disaster mankind faces today is a conspiracy, some Chinese conspiracy to reduce the industrial capacity of the United States. Of course, that is a preposterous approach, as is the case with most people who seem to come from that person. Meanwhile, we do not face the fact that climate change is the problem we should focus on. This is important. We don't want garbage on the highlands and on the highways in the country. I understand that, and I agree. We don't want a plastic piece in the Pacific. We do not want to have ruined a country in Ukraine or a poisonous sea around Fukshima, Japan, but we are talking about the entire planet. We're talking about more or less all the factors in the Bible that could have the potential for human life, at least to the point of life. So I pondered the political possibilities for all of that. There's no problem even with what's wrong. Independents come up and say, "I don't think litter should be disposed of, and it should be so expensive for people to think it was bad. " What if you say this about greenhouse gas emissions? What if you suggest that it is bad, that people should feel bad about it? It's a matter of conscience, but it's not enough. What if you suggested that the oil charge be raised to such an extent that it would be harmful? Let us be absolutely clear about what is being said in this report. What it takes to reverse the terrible developments of this century, within the lifetime of many of the people in this world, are very radical and unprecedented changes in our society. And when have we been quick to do that? Were we quick to go into equality, or were we quick to deliver slaves or something similar? Such acts are usually done decades, even hundreds of years, and some are still unworked. We need to do this in the next few decades so that the earth will remain inhabited. It is hard to say how overwhelming the problem is. I'm sorry, but I still feel like people don't take him seriously and they just pretend that it's something that's gonna work out. Nothing's gonna work out. Do you know how the laws of nature have written this bill? They've already written, "If nothing is done, I'll take all your money, all the money in the whole world, all the wood, destroy all your communities." It's inserted, for not doing anything right now. They're not exaggerations. As I said to a respected president earlier, I hope I don't feel like I'm going outside. I think it's important that we keep in mind that the content of this excellent bill is that we must protect nature, we should agree to protect nature, and it should be an overwhelmingly wicked place to destroy it. This is not a question about a national capital or a rich male against the poor because the climate does not care whether greenhouse gases are released in the country or by a rich person or by the poor. I strongly warn that the case draws up some lines of conflict only to create groups that work against one another in political battles. I hope it's based on a misunderstanding. If it's not hard to see what might be behind. I'm going to wait for this case to come from a committee about the fine, since a moderate measure has to be taken care of. I think it would be good to ask ourselves, " How would climate change look? '
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u76	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a hearing on how to smell the eco-friendly purchase of groceries. Besides what's going on here, my clients are out there. Councilmen Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristoffsdóttir and Linika Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótir. I'll get to grab down a report: This proposal was previously made at 148th but failed to succeed. She is now moved in a private picture. Much to minimise emissions of greenhouse gases, use of harmful hormones and toxins, excessive use of antibiotics resulting in multi-drug resistant bacteria and other harmful effects on the environment and well-being of animals during the production and transport of food. Governments and rural communities can have a significant impact on this by guided by the environmental and expensive means of shopping for food. For example, it may be estimated that up to 150,000 people - students, government workers, residents in living and aging homes, and others - are regularly able to eat in public cafeterias. If two thirds of them are involved in making that choice, there are 100,000 people. Icelandic Public Shopping Act, No. 120/2016, based on 2014/24/EU European Directive on public shopping. The directive acknowledges that public shopping can be used to promote the environment and the well - being of animals. In particular, though, the laws on public shopping focus on ensuring that shopping is practical and that public citizens in general only allowed, but not related, to taking into account the environmental benefits of shopping. This suggests that public shopping will always take into account the environmental and expensive care of the public market. Thus, countries and rural areas place a heavy weight on the scales of an eco-friendly food industry. The government of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir has already set ambitious goals on climate issues that go beyond the Paris meeting. The objective of Iceland's non-carbon shares in the year 2040 calls for broad support in rural areas, institutions, companies, and businesses in their efforts to set climate goals. All larger public plans need to be evaluated by climate targets. This will not be possible if we are going to be successful in climate matters and resist international commitments. V.E.G. President. The order of the Generals to further the green economy highlights a positive example for the State. It discusses how to integrate environmental views with good shopping practices. Both of these factors will be taken into account in the policy of eco-friendly shopping and green state that the government signed on April 9, 2013. It has been established in all public discussions and has found almost self - righteous today. That policy, though, does not cover the official purchases of food, as we have discussed. Thus, experience has shown that public shopping is a powerful tool to promote social responsibility and thus achieve positive goals. They are an unbreakable part of the economy and an important government control tool in public affairs. The aim of a law on public shopping is to ensure corporate equality and to promote government economic efficiency through active competition, promoting innovation and the development of public shopping on products, actions and services, as shown in 1st. The law. Thus, it may be difficult to find a realistic way to take into account both the environmental protection and the cost of public shopping. It is not possible to obligatory institutions and rural companies to select Icelandic foods, although it may be possible to argue that the choice of Icelandic foods should be preferred to promote European food production because of its quality and purity. For example, the results of a report on the carbon spor of the garden gardening environment show that when a product is brought in by flight, Icelandic gardeners have the greatest advantage. Moving salad to the country costs more than three times as much carbon as the whole process in Iceland, with the ratio of the Icelandic carbon track of about 26% of it being imported. All of this matters in the big context when environmental issues are thought to be involved. For fun, I'd like to point out that Danir, who is the first person in these matters, is so fond of the Icelandic vegetables that they like it most because the way it grows in this country and the purity of water is far beyond what is known elsewhere. We have tremendous quality here. During the past few years, Denmark has experienced a great awakening to food purity. Danes say the Icelandic water is extremely pure, and since much water is in vegetables, its purity is of utmost importance when it comes to flavors, and it was even chosen for a president's party. In these times, it can hardly be avoided that public shopping takes to a greater degree the pressures we face on environmental matters. I would like to draw up a few points from the consumer policy of Icelandic sheep farmers I consider worthy of this call. It emphasizes that European consumers get as much information as possible about the products produced by farmers with nature and society. Necessary information should be added to the consumers so that environmental food footprints are clearly expressed in terms of carbon emissions, fertilisation, genetically modified food, antibiotic use, hormonal use, etc. Special attention should be paid if the products are not fully identified from animals that are produced in comparable animal procedures and national principles. It specifically discusses the example of the government of consumer protection by civil shopping policy, which puts it word for word, with the permission of a president: The lack of information on origin, animal history, environmental footprints, hormone, drug, and toxicities will be required for all public shopping on the factors that identify in the course of 1◯4. In this respect, buying both government and rural society is essential for food to meet the strictest standards of quality. Loyalty, purity, and environmental footprints for antibiotic use, animal control, hormonal, drug, and toxic use will be evaluated at least as important to public invitations and shopping for food and prices as to prices or price. This value for state, rural society, and all government institutions and societies. Added to this, during a sheep's consumer policy, it is estimated that the amount of carbon equal for the year will have been used for that year and that all Icelandic sheep products will be recognized by minimal environmental track by 2027. Icelandic sheep are already born without hormones and growth - inducing drugs, and genetically modified food has been banned. The use of antibiotics has the least known thing in the world. We are so lucky to live under favorable weather and climate conditions, so there is no special need for toxic and excipients in Icelandic sheep farms and the use of manure is low in international comparison. All of these are vital aspects of environmental, animal, and consumer protection. Is it not necessary for consumers to have clear information about these matters so that they can have informed choice of goods? V.E.G. President. Hv. Specialist Councilman Ingi Pétursson sent a petition to a Council of 148th for all schemes over the percentage of Icelandic food for buying advice. I'd like to grab the answer here, by permission of the President: There is no information available in the Ministry of Presidency on the origin of food purchased during the period asked. The request is a reason to draw attention to the fact that the Ministry of Employment and Development is now running the Maturo of Iceland. Its role, on the one hand, is to draw up the unique status of Icelandic raw materials and food culture to increase its share in Iceland's overall image, thereby increasing its knowledge of Icelandic foods and products and their application, and to strengthen food - related activities that promote global interest and value production in terms of sustainable development. The public shopping of the State is a significant part of the economy and the way they are treated is important. By their share in food markets, the state can influence market development and drive innovation and contribute largely to sustainable development. The government's ambition is to give children, elderly ones, and others public cooking, an appetizer, and a wholesome meal. New laws on public shopping went into effect in the fall of 2016, taking into account the European Parliament's directive and the Council on the purchase of public products, actions, and services. Here are positive steps, and it is good for the State to go ahead. Government plans to further this and step in there are very good. It's starting a working group. It was for the very best. It's a good thing to do. This case will only support it and enter it. I also want to know that in a report to the General Assembly on the National Reunion, we are likely to be on the road to eco-friendly prices when it comes to food. The greatest success has been our shopping for paper and hygiene products. It's very simple. The results have been tremendous, and that is well done. They only follow hungry lips. There are clear instructions with certain meanings on the lips. Much has been accomplished, but it is work to do when it comes to food. It is a much tricky and complex subject. Usually, shopping projects are assigned. The rules may need to be explained when it comes to the appointment and entry. It would have to be fixed. It's work to do, and I hope we have good luck to move on. In fact, we have an obligation to comply with the policy that has been in force since 1998, but that policy, for eco-efficiency, and for a green state, was revised in 2013. We're on the right track, but we need to board sleeves and get better results. In this way we can also strengthen domestic food production. I'm not shy about it, because it compares fully with production elsewhere. We are here with a lot of quality, and we need to know how all the processes range from the beginning of the product to the time it arrives on the table of the consumer. We are strong there. The agricultural industry and the Icelandic agricultural industry are very early, and following these issues has been a big challenge for my team, the forwarding team, us candidates. I believe we'll be standing with the palm of our hands if we're based on this foundation. The government has taken a good step by forming a group to shape food policy for Iceland and I intend to quote here in the government's administration contract. It says that Iceland should be responsible for the production of wholesome agrienvironmental products and should ensure continued competitiveness of the marine export of international markets. It also says that opportunities based on interest in food culture should be used with sustainable development and guided quality, further development of the living economy, and the development of innovation and products to increase the value of products and edification. It is an enormous and large issue in every community, that we have a strong business life all over the country, and we are using our resources, our country, to produce wholesome food. This Ministerial Group, a project manager, has been appointed to shape food policy for Iceland, as I have come before. Among the factors being guided by policy development is sustainable production, improving access to healthy food, innovation, and source label and access to information. It is then emphasized to reduce food consumption and increase competitiveness in international markets. This will include factors involving food security, but it should be noted that a subject for food security is in the field of more ministers. This trend is expected to be evident by the end of this year, and it is very positive to me because this is where the State is to take the lead, and it is to be a model in the trades and routines around it. This case, which I propose for the second time, assumes that we always watch every purchase from an eco-friendly angle. As a result, I think, we must choose what we can create here next, build up the environment, and bring us here on this good country and around us. It is not possible for us to carry food halfway around the globe throughout the year. Should we not try to be more seasonal in eating food? I think that must be normal. I just hope this case works out.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u77	Madam President. Thank you for your history. There are many things I can share in in this talk and assembly talk. But I would like to ask. A senator would not have to, especially in view of the fact that farmers have to take the animals to a large slaughterhouse, whether there are too many barriers to farmers or not. Often, there is little respect for the fact that this is organic farming. Examples are that one animal is taken, and it has six thighs back, and it is not known whether the product that a farmer takes back from the slaughterhouse is organic or not. This is what I've heard from people in this business, who have organic farming. I wonder what. A senator may have any suggestions or solutions, whether there is a better way to take steps toward more organic farming. The Senator said that e.g. has been banned from genetically modified feed for sheep. Does the same apply to bull and cows? How can we develop in that direction?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u78	Highest. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen for an excellent counter-regument. Icelandic farmers have been very ambitious in producing quality products. That's what I think I can claim here totally shameless. Overall, people have achieved tremendous success. We're talking about organic, eco-friendly farming, and the terms sometimes get a little mixed up with us. Suddenly we're talking about organic farming as something special, but traditional farming as something completely different. If we look at it in the big context, even put it up to eternity, or just being in this place, it's been a long time since we started using the extra supplies, some excipients. So in itself it is not a long time. For a long time, it was stated that it was difficult to practice organic farming because of natural conditions, but it has been proved false. You can go further. But there is also a wake - up process and a change in the life of farmers. They have to make their own decisions about this. But like sheep, we are very close to it in many ways. It was very prospective people who long ago made the decision to forbid drugs in food. It is a treasure we have, and we should thank the people who put it on it. That is invaluable to us. Because I know about slaughterhouses, I know only that if I live by strict standards and regulations, I have no idea that there are six thighs from one animal. If this has happened, I think there are other issues involved, and we have entered the fields of miracles and wonder if so. Then they'll probably not live in organic farming if such products start to come from the animals. Then there's something else that I don't know about doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u79	President. I was naturally showing that the animals were being mixed up and that the farmer would receive some products that he did not recognize. It's very difficult if you're in organic farming and you want to sell your product and that the consumer knows that it's organic that he buys. But I wondered if it would be wise to allow farmers to kill themselves again, if there is any need to have this central, that they are slaughtered in the same place, and if it really is possible to classify themselves as a means of animal choice to do so, when these animals are moved long distances, which arouse fear and insecurity, to slaughter them. I'm wondering about an expensive road trip anyway. A senator feels that we are likely to reexamine the possibility of allowing more of the homework. I know there's some possible anomalies, I don't know that well enough. That is why I ask, in hopes that the senator could instruct me or inform me of how it works. As for organics, it's true, and I'm totally into it, that we're doing this amazingly well here in Iceland, especially if we watch many other countries in the world, and how much toxins they use in farming; hormones and antibiotics and all that. But we still use cream, and I think we could do better. I want to know what we need to do. I think it's best to do this with a positive motive. How can we encourage farmers and create here circumstances that make them more newer and possibly go into organic farming without the risk being so high as it is now?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u80	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for a good question again. Home-rolling has evidently been over the years, long ago. Now people can get permission to set up a small slaughterhouse, a smaller stop, to slaughter in. Actually, this pursuit has not been great. Once the rules were cleared, I think there was only one application. But I agree that there's something that needs to be examined, and people need to be motivated. But the fences have been pretty high. The work around the world during the process of product management has been quite complicated. Some see some romance in slaughtering at home and that we have the blood field outside. Oh, I don't think it's anything special. But we need to keep specific rules, and we must always be guided by the well - being of animals. We have, we have very strict rules, and it is not given to anyone in any branch in this country. Swamp and chicken farming are more strict than local rules, which make farmers feel no easier. But there's something else I'd like to point out about the quality of the product and the products we have here: We're producing products and products of hernivores. Much of mankind does not even have access to such things and will never receive such food. It's something to hold on to. It's just a big deal that we're gonna have it here. We are looked upon with envy. That's why I'm looking forward to bringing here a matter of protection in the fields we own. But that's another story. However, there are incentives for innovation in the market agreement. There's strength to go into organic farming. It's all there. But these are just steps that each one must take, and some do not necessarily want to go to any product development or development. Farmers just produce what the nest has to turn and then don't choose to go any further. It's just each one's going to have to make a living.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u81	Madam President. I'd like to celebrate this council resolution and hope she'll be accepted. From a quick look point of view I don't see much that stings my eyes. I'd like to add whether it would be a good idea to put into shopping policy an emphasis on buying foreign materials. But, hey. A senator answered that question. It's just not allowed. If we look at the supplies, it'll be natural, just like that. A senator points out. That would be an incredibly important and huge case for farmers. We all know the status of farmers, and considering what the State buys, this would be of great importance. Hv. A senator entered the food policy and we discussed organic farming. I'm now an organic farmer, so I have to come into that conversation. I miss not seeing anyone say anything about organic farming on these missions for Iceland's food policy. Of course I agree we do great things. Of course, organic farming is unique and is as environmentally friendly as possible. Applications are not being imported, not employed by tools and tools. Sheep, of course, is a herb, but not all animals, like pigs and more animals, are domestic animals. It's about home-rolling. The rules have been cleared, and the project has been removed directly from a farm, incredibly cool, that small producers can do more at home. Not to be overlooked, though, is the tremendous amount of work involved in being small, as I know myself. I've never done any work that's so hard. And don't forget that when you're talking about straight from the farm and all that is going to do so much for farmers - I just don't agree. Somehow, we need to think this way much bigger. While the slaughter of sheep is at home, it needs to be thought of to the end. What will he do with the meat? He needs to sell it, he needs to know something in the market. He needs to think this through completely. Of course, there are many farmers who do, some do already, and that's very well, and their meat is very desirable for some who think it like that, as I actually do. But there is no solution in this for long periods of time. It's not like that somehow. Of course, we want a variety of agriculture. We want space for everyone and, of course, space for innovation. Of course, innovation is nothing everyone wants. Some people just want to be producers. And I see an incredible opportunity there, i.e. More cooperation. If we could divide the country more into the provinces, such as the East, where there are a lot of sheep farmers, if we could just have a project leader in the East, all of which would be opportunities and markets and exports, etc., it could bring men together. People with different strengths could lift a fold. It is often difficult to stay in the country and walk from town to town to hear all the ideas that people have. But then you might need someone to grab the ball and just punch it. I see a chance. Deepavogshreppurs is, for example, Starting to think a little bit on these lines, trying to help people improve all the productions at home, looking for ways to improve the production of firehouses in the province, and trying to make use of the human resources that the community has to develop at home, and trying to work it a little bit as a team, under what's-the-Cittaslow. I'm not going to go into any more of that stuff here. I could talk about it all day. But I really like it. We need to set an amazingly ambitious view of the future in agriculture. Everyone has to come to the table and we have to modernize agriculture. We've been on the same bike too long, thinking about the same stakeholders for far too long. So we need to let new people do the work they already do, and the young people who now show so much ambition and effort to get us back into a new place.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u82	President. I could not stand it, being here with an organic farmer, asking how. A senator believes that the current agricultural contract has priority to organic farming. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Are there enough motivation? Is this enough help to organic farmers? How do we get more of these products? Because that's great, right from the farm, straight from the farmer, but it's just not available for everyone. How do we get more awareness of this so we can fit into our stores? As a person who shops organicly, I can say that there is an incredibly low range of access to organic foods in large stores. I often have to go to many camps to find everything I need. I would like to ask, too, because almost every animal was spoken of as a herb. I suppose it's not pigs and chickens, but isn't it also genetically modified grain and soy that these cattle receive? Now I don't know. That's why I ask, "What's the difference between organic and inorganic?" Is that just the cream? Is there anything else that makes the product being stamped into existence?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u83	Yes, in terms of bioavailability, the crown has e.g. Just doing great things. They have taken a very ambitious course, and much of it is available. Mrs. Luges and the Mela Camp have high quality shopping skills. Of course, it would be nice to see much more. There are not many Icelandic manufacturers. Still, we have a large model farm, Vallanes in the Shire, which I encourage all to visit to learn about organic farming. About the cattle. I'm not an expert on it, but I think it's just a little mixed up. It's natural hay, and what's it called? [[Up front.]] Genetics, please. Biodiversity: I am a vegetarian and, of course, know the best thing about it. That's where we have organic fish feed that we get from Filter Processing, and then you like to use shit. It's given an exception from the rest of the world. But the surveillance is all very rigid, and it is monitored if the raw materials are used, and that is one of the meanings that people can absolutely trust that the surveillance is that much.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u84	Mr. President. We'll discuss an eco-friendly public purchase of groceries. I'm not going to add anything significant there. I'm going to use this opportunity to discuss eco-friendly purchases and the transport of food over my head, with general words, and to add a little complete view. There's been a lot of things in the past, and I don't know if I'm adding so much, maybe I can wrap it up in a whole picture. But I was going to focus first on the production of both land and sea. It may be the first thing about the organic product in agriculture. There are only about 20 inhabitants of the land that is considered organic. I had a request to the highest level. marine and agricultural ministers on what could be done to promote more organic farming. We had an excellent talk, which I'm not going to refer to. But it has been discussed here, and it is a very important part of all of this. There is, however, one thing that has to be remembered, and it may vary somewhat, depending on whether we have organic vegetables or carnivores, that organic carbon fertilities can be quite high. That's even. Based on organic contraception. Time and again, special counter measures are needed to match the level of carbon. That's what I wanted to promote about organics. But a little bit more about agriculture. The desensitization of agriculture I've been a spokesman for, i.e. trying to reduce the economic compression by reducing milk population size, number of slaughterhouses, prolonging road routes, etc. - It's very well arranged that the climate is the way, to reduce compression, in part, exactly right. Of course, it's about, as we have seen, a marquee, the processing of almost the buyers, that I now don't talk about shops closer to buyers. I have spent a considerable amount of time at the council talking about the store, because we see how it has become. These are relatively few grocery stores. It is all about huge amounts of bandages, often plastic wrappings; a cashier is very limited; it is either half a pound [0.5 kg] of carrots or nothing. All this punctuation is likely to save human life. They buy the meat on trays, only in very few places today, even here in the capital area, to buy by weight. Well, it's very important to change these trades. People may think it's old-fashioned and some romance is over the trader on the corner. I'm sorry, but that's the reality. I'm not talking about some merchant on the corner, I'm talking about a market for a foreign model that we've never been able to develop here, part of it because of extreme strict hygiene practices and simply because it's not a custom. But it's all around the countries here in Europe, and it's certainly as relevant as this. It's not either or, of course, it's both. So - called supermarkets will still be here in some way. But it is very important to unwind because we know who the food waste is, what the package is, how much it costs people to drive, how much food supplies are, how much it costs to drive, and how much it costs to drive the butchers or farmers themselves. All of this is part of climate and public shopping on food if it is to be replaced, and of course it is related to an expensive journey. I'm not going to say anything about her, she's so obvious that there's no need to discuss her in particular. But we might as well look this over to the forework. I'm referring to the development of an internal bridge, a local eutrophication, and a fauna. You can also think of organic fishing and organic fishing products. Of course, this also applies to us. It's about short paths for the tickets and the big community, trying to get a part of the quadtans back into countless places that have lost the quota for obvious reasons, but which need to be able to do more than the most urgent beach fishing. Hence, it is also part of an environmental purchase of food, public or general. Another point I'd like to point out is innovation. The eco-friendly products we want to buy are not just eco-friendly carrots in a paper bag but all kinds of products developed from the foundation. It is quite certain that for change in consumer practices and trade practices to succeed, such innovations must be powerful. New creations are also involved in reducing greenhouse gas emissions from our creatures. The diet supply or incorporation material is being developed into food that is very promising to achieve a lower level of assessment from the gastrointestinal tract of these ruminants than it has previously been. These are substances that, in my opinion, are ecstatic, and secondly, though I have no knowledge of it, they have been well and very promising, if I may say so. This is what I wanted to say about production within the country. But then only about importing food because, of course, it has something to do with public shopping. We must start sooner or later, our discussion is more focused on our climate goals, which are, of course, climate goals for the world, not just ours. I'm pulling them out of my hat for the non-carbon purpose of Iceland's 2040. So far, consumers, if we call this consumer business, a lot of imported agricultural products, are about to become a primary focus on prices. Perhaps some good, but the price for consumers is still still important to many people, both traders and consumers. People here draw absurd blueberries from Chile that are transported halfway around the globe during the winter so that we can eat them at that time, even drawing out what we called tasteless tomatoes from the Netherlands. It's all moved with as big an environ ment as possible. These distances need to be included in the discussion of eco-friendly purchases of homes, public or whatever, and the production process itself. The plant conservation products have been introduced in the preceding discussions, which some now call plant crops that are naturally used to produce in very many places around us. We're importing food like that. Drug use and biological resistance: This has been very discussed and does not need to be repeated. Every mile of such food, just in moving. And then there's an expensive road into it too. Instead of constantly focusing too much on the budget, we should focus on what we called eco-efficiency and eco-efficiency. After all, it will be rubbed too. We know exactly what will happen if climate warming continues to the same extent that has been so far, this will cost our homes a price. No doubt, then, this discussion will be commemorated by humans as little of the import of food as possible, preferably no head. I was going to draw it out here and encourage this discussion to be a review of all purchases and a review of all imports. However, I support this synopsis and hope that it will succeed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u85	A respectable president. We'll talk about a political arrangement for eco-friendly public purchases. I thank both the prominent and others who have participated in the discussion. I find it very interesting. Actually, I'd like to thank you too. paritaprevir Ari Guðmundsson for his speech. He has a lot of knowledge about these matters, and he always enjoys listening to them. It is also interesting to see how the gender composition is in the hall under discussion, in view of the fact that women are in much less part at the council, the field of interest seems to be here. One down. A member of the capital area told me in the side room yesterday: What is this, why is the General always aggressor? I think it's important that we members of the capital area also participate in that discussion, but it is often loud at the council, perhaps much more than in general, and it happens to the public. I don't think he's too much to think about farming. I find this council proposal very interesting and with very good goals within the table. However, I would like to agree with the view that I feel that there is good reason for me to consider the general environmental issues of public shopping. Actually, I think there's also another perspective on public shopping laws. We need to be very aware of this law. I'm not telling you the least because I've been in the management of a government firm that's been on high charges and had to spend very much money on legal assistance. There's something going on. Then I wondered, " Is there a problem with the legislature on the other side or is it hard for people to get up inside the box? ' But in this regard, when environmental issues and animal protection are taken into consideration by public purchases, it is very interesting that they will be examined. In effect, I believe that government agencies can set such goals and fulfill the laws they must meet, the laws on public shopping. Of course, the practicality must always be viewed, but the law focuses heavily on the most practical option to be chosen. For example, it has been difficult to develop when rural society and public people have been offering practical projects to make certain demands on the history or knowledge of contractors. It's a good idea for them to always take the lowest offer. Other options, such as the method of bargaining and other purchases, have not been reached well enough. Somehow, we haven't gotten enough of that stuff, but I think at least many North countries have managed to do much better. Mr. President. I wondered if it's a why. A financial and business committee that's taking care of the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u86	It's a financial committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u87	It's a financial committee that gets this case, yes, these are public shopping. I'd like to direct it to what it is. The committee is merely considering whether there is a need to examine the law on other issues. But this certainly is one of the provisions for public shopping. I just wanted to agree with the views that have been presented when it comes to organic farming, and I'm interested in such things as consumers. I went to search the world's web only, and I found nothing new when I typed in an organic lamb. You see, I've heard that it's very difficult to have organic lamb in Iceland, perhaps primarily because we're talking about her cubs and most of us used to run them on the ground and let them enjoy Icelandic nature, enjoy and use it, and hence, if you're going to have organic farming, you need to have a very specific area of the sheep. But I found a story in the fine publication of the farm paper. Actually, it's from 2016, since November that year, but not that old. But it struck me that there were figures that in 2012/2016 ten producers applied for organic certification and 15 processing. At the same time, there were 14 persons who returned their license or their certification. It's about a certain resolution in the article, of the collapse of organic agriculture in Iceland. I know we've dealt with it in a contract with farmers, and we have a special motivation for this. I don't know what the results are, but I think it's very important that we look to them. I feel alone that on this beautiful island in the middle of the Atlantic, which makes our feet strong and clean, we should be exemplary for other countries. I can't help passing the conversation on the grocery store. The number of them has decreased, and this has increased with a large amount of packaging. The worst part, I feel like going to the store and seeing a plastic wrapped around plastic. I know that sous-vide, excuse me, a respectable president, I don't know that there's some Icelandic word for it, that trollied everything before last Christmas, and people began to slow their meat down in plastic. Actually, the finest steaks come out of it and it's fine, but looking at the plastic store in stores today is huge. I would so much like for us to be motivated by shopping owners so that they might take on something of that kind. The last thing they're done with the plastic bags, the load bags. There has been a lot of discussion about it in the community, and some say that we are starting at the wrong end. I'm not going to give a lot of thought to it, though I encourage people in general to use a multiuse bag and not put a large package in a plastic bag, since often packaging can be held home. But I don't think that it's any less necessary to look to the package at store. It must be true, though, when public people shop in, it's a lot of bandages in some way. Despite our desire to ensure food security and goods, we need to consider the shelf life and the factors that, of course, are important, I think that we must be able to achieve better results in this. At any rate, that is the advantage of a certain awakening to both organic food and environmental considerations. It may not always be obtained through the organic certification, but it is good to know that environmental solutions and carbon tracks are looked at. Then, shops that are a little more like the merchant on the corner and when farmers are selling directly from a farm. I have sometimes taken an example because my country, which is now no longer rural, is Mosfellstown, where one can go and shop, e.g. The turkey and the chicken and the eggs, right from the farmer. That's a big improvement. Yet, the trend has been that the stores are large and large. It is interesting, though, to consider that there seems to be some small change in this regard. The big shopping chains have begun to look at smaller stores too, especially in connection with dense development. They realize that they do not have much space to do in densely populated areas. There's something coming back, though I think we'll never go back to the old one again, that it's always just the merchant on the corner. Surely, most families will still take advantage of going to a supermarket where practicality can be more practical. Of course, it costs that people often drive in a private car and load on it. I know I went through a wide field. I allowed myself to do so in view of the fact that many others had done so, taking advantage of the opportunity to discuss environmental issues and food production in general. I welcome this synopsis and encourage that as many people as possible are interested in it and hope that we will receive a lot of comments on the subject. I think it is very important to bring up a general talk in the community on environmental issues and expensive means, both to public shopping and to buy personal contacts.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u88	Mr. President. I have to deal with this. I just want to tell you what. So a senator gives it to a friend who was talking to her in the hallway yesterday that this is an incredibly important case we need to discuss, and of course we're always discussing it because we somehow can't reach a reasonable conclusion. But I still think it's sparkling right now. I feel that the government is putting great emphasis on this and, of course, we need to talk it over and over. Of course, in organic culture, support for organic farming is unsatisfactory. The fact that we have permission is also made. It's under strict surveillance, it's a bit more difficult to do, and a little slower, and so on, but it turns out that you can get a higher price, so it's also a lot to work. There may also be more to discuss organic farming. It's a little bit like that because we have so clean water, and here it's so clean and nice, we're automatically organic. Of course, that is not the case. Therefore, I think that there was a lack of understanding and a little interest in the group of languages. That is why we need to talk about it and take a closer look.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u89	A respectable president. Yes, I agree that we need to discuss this matter, and agriculture is important from food production primarily. No matter where we live, we all have food to eat, and Iceland has every opportunity to stay and is a great food - making country. We're exporting a considerable amount of seafood. Perhaps not much more than that, although all sorts of attempts have been made on the export of lamb. In some places it has gone well. So I agree that it is important to discuss this matter, and perhaps especially in the light of food safety. At times, we may forget about the discussion. I'm in favor of international business and the importance of international goods, but the security of countries and nations is too, that there is also a powerful food product here. It is really part of national security. I know that many larger countries look especially at it that way, the importance of growing because of national security and the like. It's interesting to hear what you're talking about. A senator says of organic culture, that she feels that her support for it is far too small. I think there is good reason why we listen to them voices and see what you can do better about them. But I think, like a beard. A senator, that there are great opportunities for such growth. I'll think about it. Though we have tried to fight against it, members of the council who make this suggestion, with the greatest environmental and animal protection, are much less looking to the fact that within a short period of time an unheated meat will be brought in here, in accordance with the international commitments we have made. It may also be as important to see that environmental and animal protection in Iceland are that I often maintain higher levels of land than in most other countries. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u90	Mr. President. Yeah, it's a great discussion, and it's good to talk. A senator will take this to heart and agree with me. I think all of this discussion is of the good and supportive nature of this fine concierge that is being discussed here. I hope, as I say, we look forward to a better time in Icelandic agriculture and food production in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u91	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I think it's a big deal for Congress to bring in senators with the experience. A senator is an organic farmer. I also know what to do. The traveling overseer knows quite well this class of his own, and he has constantly spoken for the interests of farmers and the importance of food safety. I think we're on the right track to discuss this here, and I'm happy to see that this council proposal has drawn considerable attention and interest in the Senate Hall. Clearly, there are many members of the Parliament who are ready to participate in a discussion on this fine subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u92	V.E.G. President. I'd like to come up here to thank you for your excellent discussions and speculations, some of them in the halls, about how much we talk about agriculture. It just describes, I'm going to let myself say, that people don't realize that everything we do, everything around us, whatever we see, is because somebody cleaned up and started working something out of dust. That's how it works. We're cultivating the ground, we're cultivating, we're making a living. It's all there is to it. Of course, we should talk about agriculture every day, if that's the case. It's the foundation of everything. It's food production. Here we are producing clean, good food and have access to it - a tremendous privilege that we enjoy. We are to maintain that privilege and privilege for our children and for our descendants. It's so fun about the business here, which turns to the eco-friendly trade of the state on food that we've gone out into a wide field. This is happening because there are so many things involved. We've been talking about home production, we've been talking about small production. There are certain things that you can see in romantic light. The farmer is at home, making everything, and getting to sell his finished product. Some people do, but not everyone does. It is a wealth of knowledge and knowledge if you too are going to be a dealer and work in the small market. Not everyone is ready to do that. That's why I like the idea. paritaprevir The Berglind Häsler to establish a track of project managers, creating an area where work could be worked together. That's when we come to the cooperation and cooperation I love so much. She's getting better now, and I think there's something we need to look to in all ways. Speaking of the mall policy we've put out here at the council, they're working together there. If this were a way to make use of each area, to strengthen it, to base on its uniqueness, I am more than ready to support it. This is where we spoke. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, who wants to buy organics, declared that she had trouble finding the goods and had to drive between many stores in order to get rid of the goods she needed. Then I wonder, " How much does that cost? ' How big is the carbon tracks after driving between stores? Is that good? No, I don't think so. These are all varied questions that we can ask ourselves and examine. However, in this suggestion, we have the elimination point with the carbon track and the eco-friendly track that comes from shopping. As a result, we are led to believe that we must make use of our surroundings. I think it's in front of me. I don't have to tip about it. But in view of the government's emphasis on the environment, it is certainly in harmony with that. We also stress food production. When we see evidence that we stress food production. We should not underestimate it, that is the basis for everything, in view of what happened in the North countries of the summer. You didn't have enough hay. All of a sudden, we Icelanders were on their way to sell some hay out of the country. That's when farmers even saw money. It's a good thing. We are making use of our land, we are maintaining valuables, and we are making use of its quality. That's good. But this has been so much fun. Hv. paritaprevir Buttry of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir took into account the rules on public shopping. They exist. As I studied in my earlier talk, they are very easy to fulfill with such products as literature, hygiene, and other items. Then there's only a sign of the product that's easy to shop for, and it's the guide, you just buy it, and then you're confident that you're fulfilling those conditions. This is more complicated in food production. But farmers and food producers are putting more emphasis on it - there have been barriers - the traceability of the product. Farmers want you to go to the store and choose your spine, forward or thigh, and see the origin of the product, which part of the country it is from, and which farmer made it. That's good, then the farmer must pride himself in producing high quality. If you ever throw yourself on one producer's inferior products, you don't buy them back, that's the nature of it, and that's what you say. The Kingdom can do huge things for the consumption of Icelandic agricultural products and for the good of food. There could be about 150 of you. a person on food supplies with the government every day who has access to various institutions and businesses and so forth, homes, hospitals, and what all of this is. If we say that 2/3 are useful, there are 100,000 people today who eat in places where the State serves to cook. It tells itself that what is being offered is important, how it comes about, and how the Kingdom will take the lead in these matters. We are fully able to meet these requirements, comply with these environmental impacts, and it seems to me that this will lead to our strengthening domestic production. I'd like to grab some of these things - because people have gone through a wide range - and let me go further. In the 2010 Agricultural Minister report on food safety, the President's permission is: In 1996, the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) met with the World Food Council (FAO). It was adopted by the Roman Declaration, which included the Roman Declaration. to store a term food safety definition. It says that food security is present when all humans, at all times, have real and economic access to adequate, wholesome, and nourishing food that meets the needs of the individual to live a healthy, active life. This goal will be achieved by planning at all levels. Each nation must plan a plan on the basis of its potential to achieve its own food security targets, and work together with other nations, regional and international authorities, in organizing common measures to solve globally threatening food safety issues. We are in the best position to do good things. We're doing good things, and we're supposed to keep doing it. We can and should demand that our children have access to wholesome, nutritious food. But it's not just Icelandic farmers, it's also an Icelandic fishing road that's underneath. There we stand very long, with high emphasis on quality and fine production. We can take pride in offering food anywhere. I appreciate this discussion. It's, like someone said, so it's possible to talk all day and every day. We're supposed to talk much more about these things, because agriculture is the foundation of everything. Here we set a rigid demand for quality and extramarital resources throughout our production. We're not supposed to compromise. The conclusion must always be that wholesome, nutritious food is a key to the ability to live a healthy, active life. Thank you for your discussion, and I look forward to seeing the progress of this matter coming here at the council. Hv. The legal committee will take this case to her and I'd like her to have the best of it. But thank you for the good conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u93	A respectable president. I bring here a bill to correct a law on housing benefits. Transporters are members of the Group of the United Nations, but in addition to this, there are Friðbjörg Fjord of Elíasdóttir's daughter, Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson, the Sheikh son of Brjánsson Brján, Guðmundur And Thorsson, Logi Einarsson, and Oddný G. Harðardóttir. The bill suggests the following changes to Article 11. layer of housing improvements: The words "Courageholds " are used at the same time. 10th par. law on the issues of disabled people to a-teams goes away. The words for dormitories or parks that are linked to established educational institutions within the general educational system of Iceland, in the c- team fall away. The bill of similar material was last delivered at Council 145, but it did not succeed. Covered it with a bill only for students. The case is now presented in a modified form and covered by more groups, i.e. Both students and minors. The reason for this is that rent - rented housing problems have been very great in recent years and have left no one to hide. Farmers have responded to these housing problems with varying degrees of force, but it is clear that many individuals are having serious difficulty finding renthouses at an affordable price. Since the financial and small supply of small apartments prevents individuals from renting themselves into apartments on their own at the free market, many people have the right to share an apartment with others, where each one has his own rooms but needs and a kitchen and possible living room, are in common. The principle for those who live in rooms with a common kitchen access and a bathroom is that they do not enjoy housing benefits, for some reason, such an arrangement is not a place for a house - to - house complex. In 2001 the right to improve housing was made available for students at high and college levels so that those renting in a dormitory or in a school park should have the right to make repairs, even though they shared kitchen access and baths. At that time, it was appropriate to persuade students of such facilities to live in an apartment home, for such an arrangement was brought to the social situation of students. At the same time, the disabled persons who live in a house - to - house arrangement, according to Article 10. the handling of the affairs of disabled persons, or the housing of those called a formal home for the disabled. These individuals are granted the privilege of being with a special house or a special bathroom. In view of the lack of room supply in dormitories or parks, as well as the previously mentioned facilities for the disabled, many individuals cannot take advantage of such provisions. There are long list lists to get to. These individuals become financially or for other reasons renting in association with other Communists, as they have been called. This bill suggests that the limitations found in Article 11. the management of housing benefits for disabled people and students, whose type of partners will be removed. This release will simply be open. This results in the benefit of these individuals, students, and disabled, largely improved, and they have the same support whether they rent from the disabled, in learning, or in public markets. A- team 1st. is suggested that the right of disabled persons to improve their housing be made available. To date, only those renting in a shared home, such as Article 10. legalize the affairs of disabled persons, have the opportunity to obtain housing. Obviously, such agricultural measures do not offer all who could use them, whether because of financial status or because they choose to live with others. This change in housing law is therefore proposed. B-jords 1st. is suggested by the student's right to repair housing. To date, only those renting in a suitable home, in a dormitory, or in a park associated with established educational institutions in the general educational system of Iceland have the means to obtain housing. Clearly, such agricultural measures do not offer everyone who wishes. Hence, this change in the law is proposed. I would like to encourage the United States to examine this matter of justice carefully. Both of them may contribute to a very lazy housing market as well as to allow less - fortunate ones to choose their own housing arrangements. It matters. Living with other people, those wishing, and, of course, financially as well can have a beneficial effect on social matters. Then this can have a significant effect. But today, housing benefits simply fall because people don't have this space to their own ends, i.e. baths and kitchens. It's only about housing. There has been talk of a lack of small homes, small apartments, all over the country. There you can also imagine that bigger possessions can easily be rented because more people can agree to live in bigger possessions. A respectable president. I have now explained the subject of the bill and suggest that, following this discussion, it be referred to the highest level. The welfare committee and the 2nd Environment Committee. at the end of the treatment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u94	President. I'm here to celebrate this council case, and thank you very much. A senator for history. This is very important. I feel that there's too much to talk about and too little to deal with rent - rent people and help with the rent - out group. There's a lot of work to help people buy houses that are good and good, but there's a large group of rent people, especially young people who have trouble getting a roof over their heads. We see this problem in which young people stay at home with their parents and find it difficult to rent. Doing so will improve our efforts if we can help them. I've been in the tenement myself my whole life. I've never bought, and I've been checking just a lot of large homes, to rent with others. That would be a great relief and a great help. But I would like to ask. A senator whether there is any danger, if this were to be done, that the members who were renting a lot of people would only raise their rent instead, knowing that now each one of us would get his compensation. I would like to ask if there was a potential need to prevent it in some way or if it's over slowly. Either way. A senator thought of it in some way. It is also important to avoid it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u95	A respectable president. Thank you. Of course, a senator must answer yes. Granted, there is always the danger when the market senses that potential tenants have more money between their hands that they raise the price. It's this supply and demand, how far has it gone? I'm afraid this is the case. Whether that happens, I don't know and just let myself say: " I'm not necessarily sure. But I have to be honest and say: Yes, of course, rents there and elsewhere may result in an increase in housing for geared landlords.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u96	President. Unfortunately, too, I can see that there could be a danger. But then I think it's important to go over that group as a whole. This is clearly part of the solution. However, there is a possibility that a more comprehensive way to prevent this is possible. Now we are talking about the possibility of putting some kind of roof on the lease. I have not formed any opinion as to whether it is the right way to go. But I think it's very important to think about these things and especially how we can make the rent more healthy. It has been observed, and I know that the camp loan fund made a very interesting survey - because most people have already been checked and asked if they would rather stay in the tenet or buy answers that they would want to buy - but the apartment loans stood for a very interesting survey where they asked: If the rent market was normal, would you want to rent or buy? There were many others who said that they would rather be in the tenet. Moreover, even people who had already bought said that they preferred to be at the rented market rather than to buy. This is a little interesting and suggests that when we are trying to get information, we may be thinking about rent renting and how we can enable people who may not be interested in it to buy. Like, for example. I'm not particularly interested in buying a house, and I've never had, and I'd love to be in a normal tenant. I know there are a lot more who share that view.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u97	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator back there. This is a very important discussion. Of course, a very limited group with housing benefits remain, since all of this is linked. Because of low incomes that have the right to repair housing, of course, we also have what groups are best needed. I was asked earlier today, "Why doesn't everybody?" Why do we have this condition, that you must be with your private bathroom and your private firehouse? I agree that everyone, not just students and cripples, may be able to live in a community of bigger possessions. But we at the United States Congress wanted to start by thinking about the groups most difficult to find a roof over their heads, and rather trying to get this good issue going, that we might receive support even from the administration groups to further it. It's a big deal of justice, and I don't think it's gonna blow any system, even if we let them in. That's why this is not just a complete change but for these two groups, anyway, at first.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u98	A respectable president. We'll discuss here a bill on a change in the law on housing, which is actually a relatively new law, since 2016. Thank you. paritaprevir Vala gave Helgadóttir for putting this case before and before her speech earlier. It turns out I'm the one who asked why. A senator earlier: Why not just everyone? I find things very interesting in this case. I must admit that I am one of those who always find complicated laws boring, and I find these laws very complex. It's, for example. so in C- team 9. these fine laws, on the condition of housing improvements, are conditional, by permission of the president, ◯ apartment housing here in a country that includes normal and adequate homes where there is at least one bedroom with a special house or a special firehouse, a custom dresser and a bath status, a corrosion. However, it's 11 p.m. Hv. A senator only entered 1 1 1 1. earlier, which is about an exception from the conditions of apartment living. In other words, it is the home of disabled people in housing, based on law on disabled people's affairs; the home of those living in separate homes, and then the community of students in dormitories or parks. I was wondering if we should just take out this '-a-d-d-d-d-d-dong. g., so we're actually talking about a suitable household position. Not that I feel that it is something that the State should give a lot of thought to. But yes, you may need to consider that. So there is at least one bedroom, along with a kitchen, a cooking place, a bathroom, and a bath. To put it this way, though, I look forward to reviewing the matter. As I said earlier, I find complex laws boring, but then when you start to study, they are usually a little more complex than they look at the beginning. So I eagerly look forward to getting reviews on this subject and completely understanding the approach of the transporters, wanting to focus on this particular group of subjects, which are the issues of disabled people, and the right of students. But I hope and hope that the wind will come. The welfare committee, when welcoming visitors who know this party better than I do, would it be possible to take out this law entirely? When I say this law, I'm talking about a special house, a special firehouse, a special manicure, a special manicure, and a bath position. I'd also like to mention this case, because it says in the law that an apartment building is involved, that I know it from the time I worked on organizational matters that it was at a particular time, I don't know if it's been changed, very simple to get a place registered as an apartment house just if these conditions were met. It was basically just a sink, a toilet, a stove. Now I'm usually a advocate of freedom and a place to live. However, there is a reason why rural society has been organized and has the position to organize the site in particular, such as. has stores or services on the bottom floor and the like. But this was a bit of planning because while the rural communities had decided in their organization that there should be a job area there, people could go in there, change housing, get some special committee that came and took these factors out, and then a member of the building would simply need a list of these as an apartment property. It may be a little bit of a ride, but I still feel it's important to keep this up. I'd like to get to it for a second. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen mentioned earlier in an counter: Do housing improvements really return to where they should return? I think there's something we need to talk about. I'm ready, and I think we're most in here, to help those who really need help, but there's always a risk when we build a system like this, that help doesn't return it but that there's something else. This even results in further increase in rent prices, causing the situation to be worse for everyone. This, of course, is one thing to keep in mind. I know that we reevaluate the entire holding period, and at the sentence of this 2016 law, there had been a huge debate over the whole system. This led to the conclusion. But I wondered, a respectable president, if they should not be the full freedom that they are, of course, to live as they please. People are allowed to live together in communication, but these are the conditions for housing. I think it's important to look to that, like cot. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir spoke of earlier, that we watch a certain isolation and loneliness. I think it was recently in the news that the British government had brought the minister of loneliness. I don't fully understand what that minister is supposed to do, but it must make us think that this is a real problem in our modern society. I also thought that it is very common when we watch movies or comedy or other shows, often young people, they usually live together. It's usually the odd person who lives alone. I'm going to take a famous series, like Friends, for example, as an example, called in Icelandic, respectable President, Friends. I think in many parts of the world there's more culture in this regard than in Iceland. Although I'm very into the special policy, and I think it's important that everyone who wants to own a real estate, I think all the research shows that most people want it, it's getting a lot more mobile on everything, and people want to have a chance to move between places, and there's nothing to place in concrete. If so, it is important that we have a powerful tenet for these individuals. But we're a little late when it comes to sharing the economy. I remember that in the old days when I lived in a building with my mother that it was always like that. playroom on the bottom floor, in the basement. It was widely known. Not long ago, I was discussing it with a developer what it was like to have such a show. Is that all you've been thinking about anymore? And that's just the result. Everything was different. It didn't seem to be interested. In fact, a common laundry, which is basically a regular practice around the world; in Iceland, we are moving it into an apartment with the related costs and investments for each of us. It's like Icelanders are a little too busy. In fact, in many lands it is known that there are some sort of meeting halls or libraries even. My parents lived in Hong Kong for a period of time, where there were entire libraries, bowling alleys, and carsalls, and anything that could be rented or picked up for ◯behag. I think it's a little interesting. I am very excited to hear what comes out of comments about this fine subject. I say for my part that I would even want to go further and take out this special ♪ kitchen and cooking position, of course, provided that it would not be enough to increase people's chances of cheating somehow on the system. That's why I think it's important that we get reviews from professionals and those with this issue always recognize it when we get such a system started, we have to be careful that the help goes to where it's actually going.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u99	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator very much for his speech. I'm kind of going to come up to sign that, for all reason, you might want to look at it as the "C" team. Article 9 of which says that this is an apartment building in a country that has a regular and adequate home setting, with a minimum of one bedroom with a special house or a special house, a special grooming, or a bath and a bath. However, we must always be assured, as expressed only in the case of the day. The senator, for example, is having adequate housing, that we are not facing a lot of people in warehouses in good condition, that we have conditions of some kind. As a matter of fact, I think we have them all figured out, because this has to be an approved apartment housing facility. Then there's the thing about everything being private. I think it's the development of the city, the capital area, and possibly other settlements in the country where housing has been scarce, and maybe also a change of thinking, not always having to have everything to do with themselves, not having to live big. You somehow feel that we're changing a little bit, that we're willing to go back a little bit, and maybe share some of us between housing and other things.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u100	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer and for specifically pointing out that it is important that we use human beings, acknowledge housing, as long as we may be able to leave with a special bathroom, this and a special one. I'll agree with that. Then, of course, there is a trend in which we must stop people from living in unsolved businesses, which is for so many reasons. Such housing can often be simply destructive if not enough light and stuff, but especially from fireproofs. The fire - fire of the capital area has repeatedly crossed the areas, pointing the societies in the capital area to this, and somehow they tried to fight for it. I know for myself the example of a small community member that a building manager says: " I don't understand why we're paying compensation to a person in that house. It does not meet the requirements of being a decent homemaker. Then there is some social viewpoint on the other side, for this may be the only available and otherwise. There is indeed a difficult way to handle this situation, so I understand very well that we must have some recognition of a place to live. I think we're gonna do what. A senator, however, would agree that this special law is not always needed. Hv. A senator came into this only with a new generation or a changed time, and I just think there's a little new generation that makes different demands and may want to tie less money in the concrete and use it more. At the same time, I think we need to ensure freedom of variety and freedom of choice so that different solutions are offered at the housing market.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u101	President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for a good speech and a good review. I wondered, " Is this not to be so that housing benefits follow the individual, whoever he is, and wherever he chooses to live? ' Is that not the right conclusion? In view of the layman's possibility of raising rent prices, I ask. A senator may have ideas of action, or he may need some kind of action to stem the trend of raising rent prices.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u102	A respectable president. I'm going to start by repeating that I'm generally in favor of having a security system to help those in need of help. In case of a moment. A senator was talking about some kind of civil property support I wouldn't be in favor of that, so that's being stated. I feel that if we're spending money to support people, they're the people who need help. For measures due to increased rent prices, which have been extensively discussed here, there have been some e.g. Talk about roofs, rent roofs. I fear that there would be sheer horror and would have something very negative, that people would go outside, that they would rent black, and so on. I fear that it would not achieve the good goals people want, that rent is constant. About the operations I want to say, I think they are primarily about to increase the supply. This is the first and last market, where specific market laws advise the supply and demand, so that, with increasing supply, the price should be lowered. Then I'd like to mention that this change could affect it. Today's laws direct people first to small units, which are very limited and are also units that are very much comfortable finding their way into the Airbnb, rent to tourists, but this was an opportunity to open up the rent of larger housing and possibly to be a response to market reduction.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u103	President. There is a very good point in the discussion that people take them to a larger home, since less housing is needed. I didn't have any civil pay checks at all. Of course, there is a poor amount of housing to pay. So they would always go only to those who would need it. I'm just wondering, because I don't like complicated laws, either, if it's not the right thing to do with the individual and the person who needed them. His daughters would be so impaired if he had too much money. Is this not something that should be available for anyone who is in a rented market, has a low income, and needs it? It would not be necessary to set a rigid frame around who has the right to fit the person's home. Rather, it would increase the individual's freedom to choose a place to live on. Money was accompanied by those who needed it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u104	A respectable president. The individual's freedom sounds very good to me on this matter as though it were others. I'd like to have an opportunity to share what I didn't mention earlier. I could see when I went to the world site that a camp loan fund recently made a survey about the rent market. Hv. A senator pointed to just a portion of that inspection or other survey at that time. It reveals that as large as the tenant market is in the country. It is often spoken of as being primarily in the capital area, but it turns out that it is very little. Certain areas such as Smokejanes are taken out, with a very high ratio of rent houses, which is likely to occur as a result of increased supplies after the military left, and that area was rebuilt. I suppose that's an influence. Then I find it interesting to see what this could do to the country, where there is a smaller mass and more large housing, which could therefore slightly open up this possibility. I'm encouraging it. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, also chairman of the welfare committee that makes the matter happen, carefully inspecting the individual regardless of whether he or she is classified as an invalid or a student, that if he meets certain conditions and needs to be maintained, he should be properly treated. I think in a hurry, I admit I haven't passed over this, that this is a signore in front of a bathroom and a firehouse may be what things are all about. I also reiterate what I said before, that like you, you know, a simple law is often all kinds of reasons for things. I think the committee needs to be careful about the comments that come along and get good visitors to consider these matters carefully.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u105	President. I hereby recommend a bill of a change in the terms of merit tax. The matter was previously submitted to a Council of 146th and 148th, but it was not granted, and it is now submitted unchanged. The bill suggests that single uses and repeated uses of products, including female ties, menstrual stoppers, and elf cups, as well as all forms of contraception, fall into a lower level of value tax. The objective of the bill is to improve the quality of human health by reducing the cost of necessary hygienic measures as well as balance the situation of users of different forms of contraception. With these corrections, Iceland draws closer to the trend in other countries in terms of access to necessary hygienic products and contraception in recent years. Today, there are women's menstrual products and all birth control methods except condoms at the top level of cost taxation, 24%. It has been customary to have essential products in a lower level of worth taxation, today of 11%. It contains products such as food, diapers, and other food products for human consumption. Yet, there are other products and services in the lower stages. For example, renting hotel rooms, serving as a travel agency, using television stations, sales of magazines, and newspapers, CDs, etc. Thus, it must be considered unnatural - and surprising - that these much of the supplies discussed here are tax collections in the upper tax level. It is the end of only the products used by women. Being a woman is expensive. A 2016 study showed that, on average, comparable products cost 7% more when marketed for women. Here I refer to what has been called the softness of the tax. It shows itself in the cost of a spare, simply because it is in pink packs rather than black, white, or blue. Moving women's frequent products and contraception into lower values is not only fair but it's probably an issue of rights. No cost is estimated due to these changes, but estimated loss of income due to cost taxes is about 41.99 million. K. every year. In turn, improved human health saves in the health system.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u106	V.E.G. President. Thank you. a candidate for the presentation of this previously observed case, of changes in the terms of cost taxes in menstrual and contraception. In view of the way the discussion has been with us today, in view of what we have been discussing on equality and other matters, it is of great interest. the first-speaking said that if anything is wrapped in pink, there is more to it. Is that really so? What does that mean? What does it tell us about humans, women, men? I don't understand anything about this because this must be a common matter for all of us. Why are condoms less than other forms of contraception? Surely we must have some harmony in this, that is clear. The bill's report says, with permission from the President: ▪ The centre of the bill contributes to improving public health by reducing the cost of necessary hygienic responses, as well as balanceing the facilities of the user with different forms of contraception. I'm sure that's what I think I'm doing. I am a great equalist, and we need to be equal. This correction claims that Iceland would move closer to the trend in other countries in terms of access to necessary hygiene products and contraception in recent years. And that's good. In fact, there is no mention of which nations they are, and it would be intriguing to see them. Now you see that there are some products available free of charge in several places, and that is good. It is fine to increase their bioavailability and it is a great advantage for young girls and even older women to have access to them. I think that's just the best part. Often it is this way that they have to come out several times in order to get through. If that's one piece of paper for improving human health, you can only agree with it and hope that the case will be resolved. I thank the movers for presenting the case, and I eagerly monitor its progress.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u107	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen for his speech and this bill. Thanks, too. paritaprevir Just about the case of the condoms was Þórunn's Egilsdóttir, my question, and my speculations. I acknowledge my ignorance. I was surprised to learn that condoms are in less step than other methods of contraception in the upper stages, and I find that there is quite a discrepancy. In general, as you may have seen earlier, I believe that I would like to have laws that clearly and streamlined and had long spoken of that we had only one worthwhile bit of tax. There is always a problem with having more steps, and this is clearly one example. Now I know that it is also possible to offer all kinds of reasons for the things as they often are when things are done. I think this is a very interesting and full reason to look at it further. I think I can answer the question, too. paritaprevir A Egilsdóttir of Þórunn, though, has found that pink products are more expensive. This is an amazing fact, and it may also tell much about us women who are consumers; we pass it over, make this market. When products are packed in pink and marketed especially for us, we seem to be ready to pay for the higher price. I welcome this proposal and reiterate what I've said in the past that it's important to me that the law is simple. The dignity of the tax laws is not simple enough by a number of steps. I don't talk about when we go out there and take certain factors out of the law or into zero steps, it'll always get more and more complicated. It also makes it difficult to monitor the level of taxes and fractures and fraud as the system is more complex. In view of the fact that we live in this arrangement, I have every reason to consider whether the products listed here should not fall into a lower level of the valuable tax.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u108	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a bill to change Iceland's Natural Disaster Insurance Act, No. 55/1992, with subsequent changes. My importers on this bill are six o'clock. Councilmen Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Þórarinsson, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Ólafur Ísleifsson, and Vilhjálmur of Árnason, who come from five political parties here at the General Assembly. According to Article 1. The bill is suggested according to the word "Kenna " in pars. The U.S. Natural Disaster Insurance Act, come back: Two. The bill is suggested to include provisional regulations as follows: Iceland's natural disaster insurance will improve the damage caused by the cloud rims that crossed an Eelphver in the Skaftárfäppetto in August 2018. Finally, 3rd. expected that the law will take effect immediately. Mr. President. This bill suggests that Iceland's natural disaster insurance is also subject to disaster from cloudfall. In Comb 4. The current law contains a complete count of the natural disasters covered by Iceland's natural disaster insurance. This will improve the damage caused by volcanic eruptions, earthquakes, landslides, avalanches, and floods. A short time later, powerful tornadoes have caused great damage to the region. On August 24, the Swamps were situated, crossing the town of North Bank in Eelphft, France, in the United States, on the 24th day of the month. Nearby towns were not badly out of the gale, but in northern rent, roofs were torn up on houses, large carpets with carts burst into a ditch, fences laid on the side, debris, and iron plates covered as far as a mile away from town. There was great compassion that the inhabitants were not at home when the streets crossed the town. It is known that skyscrapers will form in this country, but it is very rare that they are as powerful and as destructive as they were in northern mines. Clouds are, in fact, predictable weather phenomena with the right tools and tools. This is what is foretold for such barriers in the United States in where they are common. In this country, however, there is no equipment for predicting tornados. The weather service has tried to increase the frequency of weather traffic across the country. A cloud can be seen on such surfaces, but the meteorologist reports that it would still be unlikely that it would be possible to predict them. It would be lucky if a strip developed near a meteorological eye that saw it. Even if that happened, the warning time would be only between 101⁄220 minutes. Clearly, at that time there is nothing that can be done but to help people out of the territory. Thus, it is impossible to prepare for such an event that can cause devastating damage. According to the general definition of the word natural disasters, it is called natural disasters. Normally, uncontrollably significant events in nature that harm or harm human life are described, but the definition is clearly defined by tornadoes. According to the move, it is urgent to respond and to ensure that the damage caused by such disasters will be improved. Since Iceland's natural disaster insurance guarantees this change to the damage caused by this very rare climate phenomenon in this country, the movers consider it proper to add provisional regulations that recommend the management of Iceland's natural disasters insurance to improve the damage done to the North-West farm in Eelphtefver, an Eelftárfäktäktäktir, due to the covert 24th of August. After this bill was submitted, I have received indications of other disasters that are not in harmony with the words found in these laws on Iceland's natural disaster insurance. I mention e.g. and would like to call the attention of a body of Congress on forest and/or vegetation fires. In the near future, it is not impossible for them to cause huge harm in this area and is not unnecessary for governments to take their stand on what way the State would react if such events were to cause great harm, as are numerous examples, and recent examples in our neighboring countries. As soon as I recommend that the bill be sent to the General and Education Committee, I believe it is important that this review be thought of by various other natural phenomena: I have been identified with meteors; if a meteor were to descend, who would make it better if there were extensive damages, for example? But a realistic example is, of course, plant and forest fires. We Icelands can expect this to happen in the near future, also in terms of climate change, with increased droughts, possibly, an increase in forests and vegetation, which becomes more and more extensive, and may not have been thought of how the forest is best handled in such areas, i.e. with a belt or with empty areas in between. It's a real danger, and I just wanted to bring it up, too, as soon as I recommend this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u109	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason for the history and contribution of this bill in terms of changing the law on Iceland's Natural Drealmation Insurance. Last year, we took the law to review, and then the name changed to Iceland's natural disaster insurance from Iceland's existing insurance policy. I have a place in the Economic and Business Committee where we took this up, I think I'll be right at the last council, and there's a lot of discussion about natural disasters. We had more discussions about what is man - made, and we received even more. A geology professor at our meeting. That was very revealing, that discussion. But I like what you're doing. A senator named just the green and forest fires. I think there's every reason to look at it, and there's no point, therefore, that we're better at going over this legal column at the right time. The Economic and Business Committee. I'd like to quote only a memo from the Agency then known as Iceland's Correctional Insurance and today by approval of Iceland's Natural Disaster Insurance, which she sent us along with our discussion of the bill before the last council, by permission of the President: The Agency considers it important that measures for the improvement of the Agency due to damage events are as clear as possible. This is important for the Agency, as well as for owners who are threatening their property from the Agency against natural disasters. The current law states that VTI, as the Agency made it, should be a threat to direct damage caused by the following natural disasters: volcanic eruptions, earthquakes, landslides, avalanches, and floods. The purpose of maintenance insurance is and has been in the past to be suspicious of outside human power to control. Interim interpretation of improvements has been consistent up to this point. It may have been especially this, to be suspicious of what is outside the human power to control. I would, without being an expert on it, have thought that tornados were one of them. Therefore, there is good reason to consider it. But I also wondered, " What are my insurance company's views on such damages? ' Because it also says in their review, I don't remember that it was in the exact memo I referred to or in other reference from impenetrable insurance that it would be very important to distinguish between what a disaster insurance company on the market is working on and on the other hand, Iceland's natural disaster insurance. And it's important that this important government agency, which Iceland's natural disaster insurance policy, not be divulging and improving what you can, too, be suspicious of by public insurance companies. I don't know why. A senator has taken a look at it, both in tornadoes and in plant and forest fires. If that's the case, it'd be nice if he came up here and told us about it. But otherwise, I think that we on the committee will discuss this matter specifically.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u110	Mr. President. I'm very happy about what's presented here. It's a job we need to put our arms together. I understand very well that those who are caught in a cloud and see their home torn apart and badly damaged will find it very difficult to experience at first hours there that they will not be guaranteed for such a disaster. Yet, a word of comfort was only a matter of thought. paritaprevir The powers of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir's death before it had been changed so that the law could speak today or be interpreted to mean that whatever was outside the human power could have been controlled. Of course, that needs to be clear, so that things cannot be pulled and stretched. In recent years, global warming has increased dramatically. After my conversation with the Weather Service, which was associated with an monitoring of the Pigagresses in the wilderness, where there is an imminent danger of a rock race on a scale we've never seen before, this debate is very alert in my rural society, Hornfjordur. There people have been thinking about the insurance status of those in the area that could be covered by rocks. However, according to my conversation with the Weather Service, there are a number of areas in the country where people feel that there are a number of risk factors and have been asked to make a great increase in risk estimates where people are more alert to these things, e.g. It's organizational and it's not. Travelers and Icelanders are naturally on the move around the country, and tourism and such are being organized. But there's climate change that's gonna come in really hard, for example. Regarding the rock layer, where glaciers fly and are released in the soil and the like. But the subject that's being discussed in the bill, the tornadoes - it's not a question. It's a phenomenon we'll probably see more of. If so, it is good that those who may have to flee from them in the future may at least be inclined to be assured if that is the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u111	V.E.G. President. This is where we'll discuss a bill to legalize the law on Iceland's natural disaster insurance. I want to thank you. Transporters for bringing this in here and 1st. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason, prehistoric, and review of the case. There's a lot of things to change for us in this country, both natural and weather. With changed times, the world's weather has changed, and we will not escape it. What happened, e.g. recently, in the West, men wrestled with fires for a long time. There's something that wouldn't have been real ever since. Forests have greatly increased, and this changes, perhaps increasing the risk factors in this country. Another factor is that the glaciers are crumbling. It affects the environment around it. There is a danger of soil, rock, and so forth. We need to prepare for some adjustments. What may have encouraged us to make this matter a rare event is the fact that there was a very powerful explanation here. Sure, it's a known phenomenon here, but rare. It is rare for them to be as dynamic as was the case in northern mines. It must be a huge feeling to stand up, the home, and all gone, and no salvation to be taken care of, and nothing that can be grasped. I think it's normal for us to look into that subject. Like a snooze. paritaprevir Ennis Haraldsdóttir covered them with insurance insurance, and now they've changed what was called Assured Insurance in Iceland's Natural Disaster Insurance. They say, as the report shows, the assurance is that there will be an improvement in the damage caused by volcanic eruptions, earthquakes, landslides, avalanches, and floods. It is also noted that shortly thereafter, powerful tornadoes have caused great damage to the region. The tornados were localized and crossed both the North Bank and Eelphepver in Skaftár carpet. Nearby towns were not badly out of the water, but in northern rent, roofs were ripped up on houses and large carpets and carts were swept into a ditch, fences were turned over, and debris and iron plates were spreading all over, a mile from town. How mild - tempered that no one was in the house and no one was at home, for such a natural problem is difficult to escape! This occurs quickly and is mild - tempered if people can be rescued from the area. There will be no leftovers nor any arrangements for this to be made. According to the general definition of lexicon, natural disasters are natural disasters. I would expect such winds and tornadoes to be counted as natural forces and beyond - control events in nature that harm or harm humans. Clearly, the definition is clear, and this is shown in the report. I think we can agree with that. This is something that we clearly need to consider in the light of changed circumstances. We always have to be around for something new. As events began, the above events had not occurred, so they may not have been under the rule. I want to thank you for the investigation. What a sobering thought this is! We need to consider new aspects of that. It can't be a pleasant feeling to see your home disappear, as I came to this point, and really can't be imagined unless you're in that situation, which I hope more people don't have to do than in this case. Sadly, we live in a harsh country, and there are some things that we cannot control, including the forces of nature. That is why we have had insurance, but we need to make sure that these are wide enough to help people who face such difficult situations, perhaps working on the areas where public insurance companies do not trust. If people cannot secure it, then the kingdom and society must step in to protect and protect the inhabitants of the land.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u112	A respectable president. I just want to cover this bill and be happy that it's done. This article was about skyscraper, natural, and caused by some of the shocks of the Scrotum, which struck everyone by surprise. Iceland's natural disaster insurance doesn't deal with that. But that was another damage to Western lands in Hitár Valley. There, a large swarm fell in July, causing much damage, but not on buildings, but certainly on land and for fishing. It has been reported that if the river was to be restored to its normal state, it would have to be carried out, shoveling up to 350,000 cubic feet [300,000 cubic meters] aside so that it would be the way it was. But this loss does not depend on the guarantee, for there is no burn - out assessment of the river as such. I'd like to point this out, and maybe it'd be a good reason to see if you could slip this into the bill, if you could look at it. I'd also like to ask the first carrier, please. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason, if it's been examined. The area has been examined and the work of an engineering report is being carried out as necessary implementations will be assessed on the basis of costs and benefits as well. But we may be looking forward to changing weather conditions and climate conditions. Now, for example. Under surveillance, they're expecting even more landslides, the mountain's been examined. I guess it's in more places like east. I wanted to get this done, and I want to encourage the movers and the committees to look at it, as the report says, the insurance will take care of the damage caused by volcanic eruptions, earthquakes, and landslides, but there must be some burning food or some price to pay. But there may be some things underneath that can be considered valuable, as I was referring to them. But I'm just gonna celebrate this bill and agree with it because, truly, it's something to look at. And I'd also like to get this around this hunt year.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u113	Mr. President. First, I want to correct myself and point out that I want the case to be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee, but not the way I mentioned it earlier. I'd like to start by saying thank you. Councilmen who have addressed these forces. Clearly, there is a great deal of interest in this, and this is interesting to humans. Many observations and viewpoints have been made. With climate change, we are faced with new challenges, such as mudlands, shrinking permafrosts in the mountains, possibly increasing over the next few years if so, with climate change and warming as a result. It may be necessary to consider also on the committee whether this is necessary to address the reaction. I named myself green and forest fires, which I think is just a matter of time. If there's a long drought period in this country, there's a serious risk of a flare of fires that may be harder to control, e.g. in summer settlements, which are very dense. Similarly, forestry there is not organized in such a way that no special protection is there, i.e. Easy territory or something like that, just roads in the area. Fires will be loose, as it were, in those areas if they flare up in heavy droughts. Then there'll be a problem. Of course, it needs to be discussed also whether the committee will consider this in the context, but we've been talking about it here, even though it's not in this bill. It was a story in Hithal Valley from Mount Furrad, whether the natural disaster insurance would repair the river or put it in the right direction. Nature may not be controlled in that way to change it to its original outlook; it may be very difficult in this case, with hundreds of thousands of tons of money to get it back to exactly the same degree. We may be a little far away from going into that, but I think that nature will take care of it for the world of fish to return to its way of life after some year's and vegetation, and other things will get over it. I was going to mention the disaster. Since the first humans to come here, disasters have really been closely linked to this nation. One of the first things they saw when they took up residence in the land was that in all the land there are mountains of fire, which make them very desolate. They must flee from where they had chosen the first time they chose to live, fleeing from those mountains of fire. In fact, many rural areas were built when the mighty power was shown by Hellah and Microfowl and more volcanoes, and Kate, of course, showed her power. We live in a land where natural disasters have been very common, and we need to think ahead, what can become so wonderful that people cannot be expected to see it, rare events, unseen. The bill suggests adding one stage of disaster, i.e. skyscrapers that have not made much access to logs here, at least not that they have caused such damage. The bill suggests that there is one thing that the guarantee should be paid in the future, this is unpredictable, can do much harm, and cannot be expected to carry it, but that society will be all to share in it. It's unforeseeable where they'll get into it, and that's the time. Perhaps over the years and decades, such weather phenomena will become more common. If earth's temperature continues to rise, it may imagine that it will become more common. There are, of course, many other disasters, such as those mentioned here, that we might consider along the way. There's a couple of 'em. Councilmen discussed natural disasters caused by humans. While natural disasters may not be caused by humans, it is certainly possible for someone to light a fire that continues to rage over large areas, such things are unpredictable and can cause extensive, destructive damage to large areas. I think it's all right to discuss it under this issue when it goes to the Committee on Plants and Forest Fires, including, of course, fires. Another factor I was going to mention was the law of Second Reg. ... ofreactivity. Nobody said anything about it. There is an example. I'll name them. In 1994, avalanches fell on the ice, and there were ski lifts that were disloyal and could not be improved. Then it was added to the existing natural disaster insurance called Assurance at the time, and then after the Southland earthquake, the guarantee at that time was expanded and self-respected. decreased. This is not a new law in this regard, with recovery. I request that the bill be sent to the Economic and Business Committee and receive careful and objective treatment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u114	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a hearing of reassessment of Iceland's whale hunting policy. For the motion stands with those here, the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Hanna Friðriksson Friðirksson, Sara Elísa Þórðardóttir, Sæland Göndand, The Þorsteinn Víglundsson, Thordldur Ævarsdóttir Hevarsdótir, and Logi Einarsson. All right. Senators. The motion says so, with the permission of the president: ▪ The General concluded to assign prime minister to reevaluate the whale hunting policy of Iceland and to identify the national interest of hunting. The assessment will include: View employment interests such as tourism and fishing, taking into account scientific research, animal protection grounds, and local interests. The secretary will submit the results of the reassessment of the Council for the presentation of March 1, 2019 The proposal of the same material was previously made at a 148th legion but could not be recommended. At the same legislation, i.e., queries were presented on whaling for prime minister, marine and agricultural minister, tourism, industry, and innovation minister, and environmental and resource ministers. The answer to these queries includes To the end of the fall of 2018, a new decision must be made on the basis of both social and economic developments regarding the continuation of whales. Based on the ideologies of sustainable development, the prime minister needs a real evaluation to see if it is normal to continue hunting on the coasts of Iceland or not. In response to the marine economist and agricultural ministers, it is helpful to have a new professional assessment of the global impact of whales beyond what is currently available and from 2010, and it will be attributed to a later date. Has a minister requested that she update her report at the National Institute of Economics, U.S.A. Also, marine and agricultural ministers have requested that the Marine Research Institute assess the food needs of whales and their impact on marine life here, including the impact of whales on fish stocks in Iceland. In response to the travel, industrial, and innovation minister it is stated that a minister is not aware that with whales, there is greater interest in memory and that the Minister has assigned the Institute of Economics of the University of Iceland to make an assessment of the national importance of whale hunting and their impact on other sectors. Then a minister refers to a reevaluation of whales as the current five - year fishing season ends at the end of 2018. The Environment and Resource Minister also suggests that a decision has been made to address the economic impact of whaling on more employment roads. Mr. President. The aim of this proposal is to get Iceland's whale hunting policy reassessed by the latest information on the impact and importance of the fish. In March 2010, Iceland's Economic Institute published a report on the national impact of whale fishing. That's where we even came from. ............................................................................................... However, the report stated that its results may later have to be reassessed by new travel information, the quality of the environment for the Icelanders, or the national image. Since the publication of the report, eight years ago, the object of the move in land production has been more than doubled, new data has been obtained on the interest of whale industry as well as the U.S., Australia, Brazil, Israel, Mexico, Monaco and New Zealand have given the Icelandic government a joint declaration against the whales of Iceland's industry. So it must be concluded that there is now a basis for reassessment on the basis of a report by the Institute of Economics. In November 2012, a employment and innovation committee was appointed to review marine mammal legislation and provide suggestions for policy development. At the 143th legislature, a marine dignitary minister was asked for the status of that work. In answer to the minister's comments, the committee had found eight times between November 2012 and May 2013 but not the final report, thus working on a waiting post. The lack of the final report and the proposal for policy development during the time of its order further supports the time to reevaluate Iceland's whale - hunting policy in the light of a new era. Transporters assume that by reevaluation of the policy, they will include: changes in the economic practices of Iceland, the interests of marine exports, agriculture and tourism, animal protection issues, the interests of rural society, and scientific advisers of the Marine Research Institute. This will explain the scope of the whales, the value of resources, the number of jobs within the article, and the export of the country compared to the major sectors of the country's industry, such as the seabed, agriculture, tourism, and industry. This is what I'd like to say, Mr. President, to recommend that this council order be held to treat the situation. A professional board and a second round. I hope that the case will get a good start and a careful consideration.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u115	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the presentation of the Senate resolution. I'd have accepted to be a companion, but I had a replacement inside when she was submitted, which is why. paritaprevir Þórðardóttir, the daughter of Elísa, is in the matter. My support for the case is clear. But I wanted to ask. A senator might not be independent of the results of this survey but provided that we did not have this survey, if this issue is not available. But I think this is the right step, i.e. to gather information to convince others. I myself object to whales no matter what comes out of this, because I believe it is an important part of mankind's moral development that certain things that were previously in order for the treatment of people and animals to stop being in order. I don't like the idea that one day it'll go back all of this all at once, someday people like you, All of a sudden, equality does not matter, nor does it matter that the way people treat one another is of no particular concern, that people accept torture and something like that. I think it's very bad evolution. I don't quite see how the world's moral evolution can be reversed without changing moral developments. On that basis alone, I object to whales without regard to their national interest. First, I'd like to hear a question. Senator on this. Also, I wondered how realistic it is to value something like a reputation, that it can be measured somehow and introduced to other members of the council in order to make an informed decision. I think such an image is an overwhelming reason, both here in Iceland and for people abroad. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u116	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry and his support of the matter, of course, would do well to hear about it. Hv. A senator pointed to me on the main points of two questions. The first was a mixture of my opinion on the matter regardless of this synoptic proposal and the moral nature of it, and of course it has to do with both. I think it would be wise to wait for the results of the work that the Congress concluded before decisions are made. I think you're right. On the other hand, I can quite say that I have that opinion and believe it, but I would like it more established, that, on a business basis, we should say, this fishing is not a benefit for us. For these reasons, I feel that the first thing to do is to stop the whales. For the morality of catching whales, I am now made to think that it is not morally wrong in itself to hunt a whale; it must first be morally wrong to do so if the species is in danger of extinction, or a special threat to man's hunting. But rather than killing ourselves to a whale on a large scale, I don't necessarily think it's morally wrong, I don't think it's worse. [[The president calls.]] I'll try to find out better in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u117	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I would hastily think that if someone were very opposed to whale hunting, that person would probably not fight very hard for this case. If someone is very in favor of whales, it would be more likely that the existing report would just live on as the final result. Still, I cannot help but realize that the people of that opinion would support the matter, even though they may not be overly aggressive about it. That would support the case for information. I just want to reiterate it and stipulate that I believe this to be the right step rather than to go straight into banning whaling, which I would personally vote with. This is the right way to get everyone to join them and to get the evidence needed to convince people, who have also not completely made up their minds. As for the moral question, I think that I have not much more to add in that regard, but I just review it in my later speech. But I appreciate it. The senator's answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u118	Thank you. Senator. I was going to find out how we can measure our reputation abroad, whether it's good or bad. There are also many ways to try to beat it, at least We are eager to examine the views of tourists, e.g. To the Icelanders and why they come here, what men think of us. It can be approached, but I don't think it can be measured with any precision. I think the world, without me knowing it, may not be the day out and the day in to wonder if Iceland is hunting a whale, but there are still very large groups that do it and powerful groups. I think there's every reason to consider their views. For the hunting, I am inclined to believe, as I said, that it is not wise for us for many reasons, both business and exactly because of these reputations to hunt a whale. Though I am not fierce against whales, I am against them. Therefore, I am now in the case because I believe it will prepare that we will not hunt a whale. The 2010 report was made with a number of warnings, as I mentioned in the background, and there might be some things to change. In fact, all the requirements given to that committee or that group are met today, so there is good reason for the revision. I think we should attack her. We're gonna go for a second. A senator agrees, and I trust that this work will be started and given the results, and then a new course can be developed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u119	A respectable president. We'll discuss a council proposal for reevaluation of Iceland's whale hunting policy, a case that I'm supporting, as I went against it. A senator earlier. I just want to explain the reasons why I support this case and why I believe it to ban whaling, even without presenting the evidence proposed by this council resolution. It may sound as if I'm making decisions without having any evidence in front of me, but the point is, I don't build my position on exactly what the evidence is called. You see, I see this in a slightly larger context, and despite the fact that I'm on the basic prince's side, I don't particularly object to catching animals for food in general. I thought it was a fun point I heard once, that maybe it's better to kill one whale than 1,000 chickens. I must admit that I do not fully appreciate what animals are worth morally more than others, but we slaughter animals to eat them every day, and I do not in itself have much moral observations to say about them. I must admit, though, that I'm concerned about climate, which is hopefully becoming very clear, and the contribution of a farm in them. I can support myself for environmental reasons far more than the reasons why it is wrong to kill animals for food. So my moral attitude toward whales is not really based on that later. Although I have deep feelings for the moral sense that it is simply wrong to kill an animal for food, I am not entirely that opinion myself, at least not yet. Maybe it changes with age, I don't dare predict it. I approach it so that I can see things better in the world through history, or most if that's gone. We are more than ever, we are more healthy than ever before, we live longer than ever before, we are less likely to develop some terrible disease and more likely than ever to be cured of these diseases. This leads to certain cohesion, which is not necessarily as positive, but in general, I feel that the world has improved much throughout history. One thing that has improved very much over the centuries, and usually after some horrible mistake, is what we can call morality. That has improved very much, contrary to what many think. Many may think that there are more wars now than ever before. That's wrong. However, we are more aware of the wars, which are good. Then we will be ready to stop them or prevent them from taking place over their heads. In general, war's woes were not equal in the general attitude people had toward them before, not as that of the heroism of the warriors of their time, and is now nothing longer than just a century. It was the dominant attitude in Europe when World War I began to be a normal part of human society, and it would somehow be impressive and admirable to go to war and become some kind of war hero. That's not what I would say today. War effort is viewed as a bad thing that should be avoided as far as possible and that war is not a normal condition for society at all. Another factor that has improved greatly is that people, most people, are inquisitive to be something never to occur. True, thanks to the President of the United States, who I am trying to restrain myself from using bad language, Donald Trump. He said, for example. in his campaign for so - called water tortures that he really liked them, but not hard enough. He promised to make torture much worse. The president of the United States called for it directly, saying that he would require the use of worse torture, only if it still exists for someone just how completely unscrupulous the madman is. I'm still trying to control my feelings for him. Also, prejudices have fallen out of style. Equalities are in fashion, but they are always prone to a certain setback. In human history, I believe that some kind of setback will be in the course of moral evolution. Sadly, this takes place, on the west side of the ocean, in regard to torture and also in prejudice. Some prejudices are not as much as they had become. This trend is bad, and this trend is a setback. I think it's all a very bad setback. I feel that our moral sense should always develop in order to show greater respect for life and to be less fond of punishing, less fond of hurting, even if we feel that things are necessary to achieve some purpose, such as imprisonment that we use as an emergency but in dire need. We do such things out of necessity, it's not something positive. Whether right or wrong, the world's moral sense, at least ever so much of it, evolution into the direction that whaling is morally wrong. Even if I don't agree with that view myself yet, at least not right now, I feel very important in respecting the view that it is wrong to hurt something, wrong to kill animals. Clearly, that thinking is in the right direction, much more than the fact that animals are normally treated or killed. I see it more as part of a moral development than as an individual moral decision. As for the image on the outside, which is part of what is referred to in the synonym and entirely correct, I ask myself a different question, but especially what foreigners think about the whaling of Icelanders. I would also like to ask, " How do we want to be the most exemplary? ' No matter what others think of it, how do we become the most exemplary of all? According to our own values, what is our greatest example? What is our ambition, not just to look good? During my closing minutes, I would like to mention one thing that I have often felt a bit in the middle of the discussion, but fortunately less in recent times, and that is what I intend to call nationalism. Of course, it is well known that Icelanders are very proud of being an independent state, and natural, but sometimes that good feeling breaks out in a certain stubbornness toward foreign influences, really regardless of whether the foreign influences are positive or negative. We see this in many parts of the world, but when it comes to hunting whales, I have at least until rather recently, sense a certain pride in the discussion, pride in savagery, pride in our being so raw and trapped in traditions or something like that, I'm not sure how to say it. I'm generally against such national sensibilities. I think we should be exposed to foreign influences. I also feel that we should take part in being influential elsewhere. I don't see any independent value in doing things the way we do them, only because we do them in a certain way. In fact, it reminds me of the EU discussion, which is often on the way that this is a process of adaptation. Why is that so bad? Wouldn't it be better if we used the same electrical link? Is it not better if we use the same formula to calculate indicator numbers? Is that not reasonable? People are often afraid of foreign influences only because they are foreign. To say that foreign influences can be quite negative, but we should evaluate them and reject them because they are bad, not because they are foreign. It is irrelevant to me whether the effects are foreign or not. In view of this, I feel alone that we should share in the positive development of human morality. We do so by being exemplary. Since I don't see that we can, according to the values, get foreign sources to believe that whaling is all right, I feel that we should adapt to the world and the time, and we can ban whaling, along with trying to be exemplary in other moral fields.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u120	A respectable president. Thank you. Helgi I must admit that I did not understand exactly what was Hrafn to Gunnarsson's son before his speech. A senator builds his stand. Now I'm going to admit that I really appreciate my rage. A senator and I usually enjoy listening to his reasons for various matters. I often agree with them, but not always. A senator's going a little wide. Hv. A senator spoke of certain moral developments, and it is clear that there is a growing group of people who want to avoid eating animals on the grounds of animal protection. I have great respect for that viewpoint, and I have a certain understanding of it. I still thought why. A senator says that he was not generally opposed to being killed to feed people, so I don't fully understand where we are headed if we are going to base our stand on some moral evolution. I wondered, " Are we not falling victim to some kind of emotional activity against some animals beyond the reach of other creatures? ' Hv. A senator mentioned here one whale contrary, I don't know, 100,000 chickens or whatever it may be. So, then, is it not some sort of emotional argument that whales submit to some other law? What about the beautiful reindeer that people shoot? Should we ban them fishing too? I mean, they're pretty, too. Or seals, incredibly beautiful animals. Hv. A senator also introduced only national trajectory, which I find very fun to say. I don't think I'm generally incredibly stubborn and much less nationalistic, but I wondered if I'd indulge in the emotions of some person who may not be based on scientific grounds. [[The president calls.]] I've got to get to the next thing in a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u121	A respectable president. When it comes to assessing which animal is somehow more valuable than others, I do not have very good answers to it in itself, except for some emotions. But I have certain things to do. I don't care if we slaughter bugs in millions or billions of dollars to eat, provided there's enough of them, I don't care. I would never disagree, doubt it greatly. But I'm always against human soap, for example. When I think about what animal I would not want to hunt or cultivate, I think, for example. About chimpanzees or baboons, because I just think they're too much like us, they're too close to us, they're too related. They're somehow too much homo sapiens so I'd like to put them to my mouth. But it's basically the only guidance I have in itself, as primitive as it is. But whales think they're intelligent and something like that, but as I say, I don't quite have the answer to that. Besides, I don't have a clear understanding of how I can better explain what I went over in my speech, except in that sense when it comes to moral meat opposition. Although I'm not there yet myself, I'd like to eat just meat if I'm saying just right now, I have a lot of respect for that opinion. I feel very bored when people somehow jerk off over vegetarians who reject animalism on moral grounds. I'd much rather be a carnivore who stops eating meat and starts eating something else than a vegetarian who suddenly starts eating meat because you don't care about something that you once cared about. I don't really know if this explains something better what I went over earlier. [[The president calls.]] But I think it's important that we respect a little emotional activity when it comes to morality because it's based on emotion. [[The president calls.]] We don't have time to go into the root of moral values, but I hope that this sheds some light on the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u122	A respectable president. Thank you. This is how a senator answers. It may be merely that I was so surprised. In fact, a senator said that he was supporting the ban on whales regardless of what was suggested in the synonym, i.e. to make some sort of assessment of the effects. I feel like I know why. A senator would rather have just want all the evidence on the subject and effect than some form of emotional activity on which I feel this is a little based. The big picture can also be considered on the basis of climate issues but what. A senator entered a agricultural and climate issue in his speech. Is environmentally friendly building proteins, such as salmon farms, rather than catching wild species, provided, of course, that they are not at risk of extinction and sustainable fishing? I'm saying my way, maybe I'll ask you why. A senator: Is it not important that we always look at the big picture? Can we allow ourselves to look at specific aspects of such matters? I take my heart to what was said in a case. Senator. I highly respect the people who have decided to release completely meat or animals in their food and to feed on something else, either on terms of climate change or on animal protection grounds. I feel that everyone should have the freedom to choose such a life - style. But I'm like a whisk. A senator also enjoys carnivores and meats in general. I'm still going to say that in the few times I've tasted whale meat, I haven't felt anything particularly good about it. Likewise, I don't want to ban everything that I just hate because it hurts. So I ask again why. A senator: Is it not important that we always look at the bigger picture when we discuss such things? It is evidently about food production, about food.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u123	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the questions and speculations. Although I have an opinion about the case now, without having seen these data, it does not rule out that I change my mind when I see the evidence, especially if they contain any real reason for catching these whales. I'll think of one thing. It's, for example. that the whales eat so much fish that they somehow upset the life system. That's a good argument. Yet, it would be a necessity, such as prisons and other things that we do not consider positive in our community and would not use or build or do unless we feel compelled. To that end, we may well have to hunt these whales. I just haven't seen anything like it yet that I find convincing, maybe that's how it turns out. I'm always willing to change my mind if I get some new data, actually, it's actually in Porita's basic policy and should be common sense, but unfortunately it's not as famous as it has become. As for emotional sex, I eat just like a dog. A senator's meat, and he'd rather just eat meat if I could get away with it according to my doctor's advice and the people I hang out with. But if our friends and countries that we want to be in line with moral, democracy-related states are against torture and death penalty, etc., if those states were as fierce as they are against cow killings, as they are against whales, I would probably support that we would ban the killing of cows, even if I feel personally nothing about killing and eating the same thing as it is. That's what I love about evolution, moral evolution, over a period of hundreds or thousands of years that I love so much. I want us to be in on it, even if I'm still a little too primitive. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u124	A respectable president. We're here on a council proposal for reassessment of Iceland's whale hunting policy. I have to say, I think this council mishap proposal is very strange, at least for two reasons, if not more. The proposal goes out to assign prime minister to reevaluate the whale hunting policy of Iceland and to identify the national interest of hunting. I wondered, " What is it? ' In fact, members of the council thought of assigning prime minister this assignment rather than the minister of the trade, the Supreme Minister. Seafood and agricultural ministers. In fact, I'm going to throw it up until I'm wondering if it's not the War of Transporters, okay? paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, 1st, and Jón Steindór, the Valdimarsson of Valmi, who made this synonym in her absence, especially in the light of the lack of sleep. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson said earlier that he was kind of against whale hunting, but nothing insanely. Hence, this does not seem primarily to be the case with members of that body because they have a strong view of stopping whaling, but rather, snarling. Councilmen want to take advantage of this only at the highest level. The prime minister has often expressed himself about whaling, and his general class has concluded that he is opposed to whales. However, it does seem that according to our Presidential decision, what ministers have to do with what they do, this sect is actually under another minister. I realize that the prime minister is a government foreordainer and can come up with various matters. This is one reason why I was deeply surprised by this synopsis proposal. The second reason is that the transporters want us to be viewed for economic interests, such as tourism and fishing, taking into account scientific research, animal protection grounds, and community interests. I agree with all of this so warmly, but I'm going to go for it. It is also well - known to members of Congress. A marine and agricultural minister has just given Iceland's Economic Institute of Economics an estimate of the national impact of whales and their impact on other sectors. This agency produced a report in 2010 and made it clear that the continuing of whales was considered practical for the national economy. But now, eight years later, it's the highest. Ministers have good reason to reevaluate these results from recent developments. I think this report was due to have been delivered on autumn days, so we must expect this report, and it was taken very soon. Then we can take, as it were, my knowledge of a grammatical discussion based on evidence that I expect Economic Institutes to collect and influence many sectors, including Tourism. I fully declare myself ready for that discussion. I'm not against whale hunting, nor do I intend to fight for whale hunting in particular, but I think it is very important that a nation of independent people have every right to use their natural resources in a sustainable way. I would not want to compromise that important fact unless it was obvious that it had an impact on other very important jobs. The Parliamentary decrees were now well established by the making of inquiries at the council, including the Council. to the highest. Industrial, innovation and tourism minister who is not aware of any interference with tourism. At least that hasn't happened yet. A respectable president. I'd also like to put it in another context. Now I know pretty well about the Westerns, I'm sitting in the Western Council. Our dear neighbors, Greenland, have been selling and have been doing as long as the oldest men remember, or since the beginning of Greenland, as I believe, simply to survive. In many ways, I think it's a more sustainable hunt where the Greenlandians eat the meat, that's an important food. Let us not imagine that in Greenland, everyone can become vegetarians. There is virtually nothing underland where vegetables or very little can be cultivated. Of course, fishing is like fishing on other wild animals, something enormously important. However, it is not merely that they eat the meat; it is an important product for skin in clothing, bags, and so on. The bones are new, and they make jewelry and something that is their specific identity, and this is, of course, an important part of their tourism. In contrast, at one point in the European Union succeeded in using that word, a ban on the cell population was made available to the Greenlands. The ban debate made it difficult for the Dutch, the small nation under extreme pressure, to make it difficult for two of their main exporters to make it available. True, the European Union has backed it up, and there must be evidence of sustainable fishing. I'm going to reiterate that I'm not in favor of any natural resources or animal institutions, we always need to consider sustainable use. But all I've seen is how important this is to Greenland and how much this discussion had an effect on the Greenlandites. Although there is only such matters, I think it is very important that Icelanders are on their feet for the use of their natural resources and living beings in the seas, given the prospect of sustainable hunting. Then I just want to remind you, as I said earlier, that I am very excited about this report by the Institute of Economics. If the result were to be different, or if the conclusion had to be that we were going onto the trunk in some way, I would say we should stop fishing or place a very high limit on it. Recently, the morning newspaper reported on a report entitled "Howlsant but Not Under Danger. " I'll be able to quote that story only, it's not very long, with president's permission: Poor people are no longer classified as a species at risk on the International Protection Agency. The species are now classified as fragile. It is estimated that the number of animals of the species has doubled since the 1960's and is now estimated to be about 100 thousand in the world's seas, according to the Morning Press. I'm going to finish this, but interested people can, of course, read the story better. I think this is a basic thing. Whether it's hunting on a whale or on a reindeer, kneeling or feeling, or what it is, we should always listen to the scientists when it comes to their appreciation for the powder and the sustainability of fishing. We should never walk that way through our country or the living things that live here are in danger. So I think it is important, as I suppose, that the government has long spoken this voice. We have generally protected our right to use natural resources for Icelanders. We have also done so at the scene of the Western Council and have taken part in speaking this voice in the European Union, e.g. when we meet with its representatives. Then the whale hunts of the Icelanders have come to talk, yet more traders of the Greenlandites and the gilding of the Faeroes. I miss what I'm doing. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson is not here because I see that he is one of the transporters. I know why. A senator went to the Faeroe Islands, and he experienced this as they sneaked in his frames. I remember he talked about it as a very special experience and it might have changed his attitude on the matter to see the social tradition that was around it. We see pictures of this, and we think it's horrible. That's where blood flows all over the place, but it's a social tradition, and the whales are divided between households, all getting their share. Especially do we need those who are poorer, so that we can be sure that we get a share of the weight. In many respects, this is from a social perspective. I could talk for a long time about this, but I repeat over and over again that I want to await the conclusion of Iceland's Economic Institute for Economics. I want to know how scientists feel about the strains and whether there are other factors that we need to consider. [[The president calls.]] Then I'm ready for the discussion, rather than perhaps on the basis of emotional reasoning about what we may feel about individual species.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u125	Mr. President. It's hard to fix when men and women and why. Councilmen will be amazed at the matters presented here. The first mention was that I had said that I was not very interested in the matter, so I must have gone to war by being on this matter. Of course, I'm very interested in the matter. I was talking about not watering the point that in the context of the fact that in itself I would hate to kill a whale. It was on the grounds that I spoke of being not interested. I'm very interested that we behave so that it doesn't harm an Icelandic community. Why Prime Minister? I don't know. Maybe we're just this kind of war, maybe it's time for a war party like the rest of the party to set up a conglomerate. That may well be so. The reason is, of course, that the whales touch very many factors and such as a whale. A senator rightly mentioned the highest. Prime Minister of the Government. It is said to stand on your feet and that an independent nation has every right to use its resources. It's like a saying I always think it's a little bad. It's hard to reason with people on these grounds. But to think of comparing modern whaling in Iceland with the gilding of the Faeroekeepers and the part they put in the Verench Or native Fishing community, I really feel completely ridiculous. [[The president calls.]] This is in no way comparable to the fishing practiced by Icelanders today in the big whales, not in any way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u126	A respectable president. If I've told you what to do. A senator would not be interested in the case if I misspoke. I think that's what we're talking about. I'm sure a senator is very interested in this synopsis that he recommended and is not going to reimburse him otherwise. But it was this debate about the importance of banning whaling. I made it clear that there is a particular form of war, sometimes just fun, that we can make a lot of fun of each other, only teased, in choosing the highest power. Prime Minister to take the lead. Yes, the highest. The president is the executive foreman of the government, but in the same way, where might we be asked, If we were to reexamine some important course of our Icelanders, where would the limit be? What about health or public health matters that flow over a number of lawsuits? Should we, then, assign prime minister to reevaluate such a course? My argument was primarily that, a respectable president, with the logical reasoning as well. A senator came up here earlier, and we could, in fact, hide the highest power. Prime Minister almost everything. I think the movers have chosen in particular the minister to represent this particular case. It's just my theory, anyway. A senator believes that I am right or not. Anyway, I'm sorry. A senator and a respectable president have every reason to look at our whaling in the context of other fishing, for we have much in common with these nations I mentioned. It's a great tradition for whale hunting here in Iceland. I reiterate once again: I have no particular interest in whales and whales in one way or another, it's about the important position that we are a independent state, and we can conduct our affairs according to our decisions and our new natural resources as long as it's sustainable. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u127	Mr. President. Yes, a lot of people think of me, or myself, about this war thing, it may well be that senators pick up the war, but it's serious, and we're not really that much of a war. On the other hand, the government is composed of three groups, quite similar, and more and less agree on all things. We saw this in discussion and a vote on a bill for the budget, where there was no gap in any language. Yet, there is such a matter that you thought might be a slight disagreement, including the matter. It is vital for us to know what the government has in these matters. Hence, it is only natural to direct the inquiry into this process, for the prime minister has in his hands what he has in the government, what he has in the government, what he has in the government, and how he operates in the government. We are now discussing the order of a ministry project, and the prime minister is in charge of everything, so I don't feel sorry for him if he needs to be considered by a marine minister or a foreign minister. He just talks to them and asks to add a little bit of a piece to his work, there's no problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u128	A respectable president. I think that's exactly what it's like for us here to accept how this operation is, so far, so far. I think that's why. A member of the United States has a problem with certain changes in government practices. But I don't have much to add. I think, too, a respectable president, that we are what we are. Senators are picking on each other up here, and it's okay too. I'm gonna let myself keep, because I'm gonna do it. A senator knew each other well and worked together in government partnerships not long ago, that we had not been exposed in that government to such a controversy proposal, on the other hand, if it had not been directed to the highest level. Prime Minister is much more the professional minister. My point may be the one I came in fine in in my speech, a respectable president, that there is an assessment of the effect of whale fishing on other sectors. Other factors, such as their food use and the like, are also being considered, so we will soon come to such conclusions. There will be good reason to discuss these matters further, for as we know them, a new decision must be made for the next year. The crash season ends at the end of this year, and then a decision must be made on how much fish can be caught and in what way the matter will clearly be discussed. But I think it would be reasonable to think that it would be the guardianship of that minister and then, of course, would attend a discussion at the council, for of course we should have an opinion on this excellent matter. What I was stressing in my speech is that I think it's important that we get these data in here and base our position on such evidence and analysis rather than on emotional and conflict.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u129	A respectable president. I don't really have a question, but maybe a objection to a speech or something. At least a senator I appreciate. The Senator's a busy man, as always. First of all, it's a Greenland seal hunt. I understand this well, as I discussed earlier, that there may be good reasons for doing things that someone else dislikes, such as We're building a prison. I'm not in favor of prisons, but I know they need to be built, they're the only means we've thought of here to deal with certain behaviors of some individuals. If that is the case, all the economics of the nation or the living bread rests on killing them well. But I think it's so obvious that it's not the case when it comes to whales in Iceland. It is obvious that our food security has nothing to do with this, and as is a small part of our economy, the sale of whales. So I think it really doesn't apply here, but I can quite agree that other reasons could, of course, justify it just as always. I also wanted to mention it as a boy. A senator said that an independent nation has every right to use its resources. I haven't met anyone who objects to that. When I say I feel we should ban whaling, I'm suggesting it as an Icelandic senator. I'm suggesting that the Council does so, not that the decision will be left the country, but that we make a decision in the light of the expectations of others. It is a normal part of behavior. It's all kinds of things I have in my own business, but I don't know how others will react. I don't know what others think about it. Of course, you shape your behavior according to the expectations of others. It is perfectly normal between nations as individuals. I have more points, but maybe we'll just start with these two, because time is like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u130	A respectable president. I think we need to watch Greenland seals because we're discussing them specifically as an important part of their employment and professional policy. Although I know why, I would not like to compare them to prison. A senator may not have directly meant it. But, hey. A senator entered into the fact that whaling had nothing to do with our food security, and I can fully agree. I don't think the Icelanders' table is a lot of whale. Most of this goes to export. But as I came in here, in answer to what. A senator, I think it's so important, when we discuss these factors, to watch the big movie. Now I'm not going to say that I'm an expert on what carbon fishing is, but I do know all the way so that the whale companies have gone to use seal sticks, or fats, to feed their ships, which I think are very environmentally alert and should reduce their levels of carbon. Of course, they are huge creatures, and as a result, they provide very much meat and when we grow food that has been very busy here and in the community, we must also realize that we are growing and that we need to feed this world. Then I wondered: " Where should we set the line? Wait, why is this food production worse than the others? If we're sorting it into such categories, is it not important that we have the overall picture, that we can evaluate which carbon points are involved in this verse something else? In time, we're supposed to decide how to use our natural resources. I respect the senator's viewpoints if he wishes to ban whaling. But I feel that such opinions should be based more on professional reasoning. It was just my attitude. And I hope so. A senator will respect my stand. I'll be on the other side, next time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u131	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the deposit. I'm not gonna answer that question for a second. A senator went in, just thanking her for her interaction, we're changing points and arguments. Hv. One senator mentioned that it was odd for her to direct this to the prime minister. I just want to show that there is a very simple change; if the Environment and Transport Committee finds that the matter is more relevant to other Ministers, it's not a matter to change it. At least I don't think it's a big dot, a good comment, and I'm sure you're right, I just don't know it when you don't think about it. But I'd like to keep it up, if I'm in favor of banning whales, I haven't even submitted the Senate case yet. I count the right way to go this way, to receive the information. Although I don't need information to shape this particular decision, it's certainly helpful, apart from the fact that I have a lot of respect for the need for evidence and conviction, that it needs to be in order to convince other people. I'm sure I do. As I say, I have not presented a case to forbid whaling and would not do it without going to this job first because I respect it exactly at the time. A senator, other members of Parliament, and all other members of the United States that we approach the matter in different ways. In case of a moment. A senator needs that information when it's respectable and nice - the points are in his mind, says so. Senator. However, I would like to mention it specifically that I do not lay this groundwork on my basic view of whaling at the moment. As with any data, I may be surprised by it. Perhaps it turns out that whales are overly important because of climate change or something, I just change my mind as I've done before; it's actually proved to be a little unpopular.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u132	A respectable president. Yes, thank you. A senator in particular for these words about the importance of taking such a stand here at the council, there is no evidence. I think we're gonna do what. A senator would agree completely on that. If we were here to discuss the prohibition against whales, we would need much and good evidence there. However, the fact is that we are not here to discuss the prohibition on whale hunting. Rather, we are discussing this synonym to assign prime minister to reevaluate Iceland's whaling policy. Just so I'm just gonna come in on it for a second. A senator was asking me about this about Prime Minister: The presence of the council decision will now be followed by this discussion likely to be held on a job committee. [[Up front.]] - I think the President confirmed to me earlier that she's going to the pro committee. Is that not even further evidence that it would be half normal to hide this work from the prime minister? They should rather hide this job from a minister at the prosecuting office. Besides, this job is going on, as I've said many times. We realize that we need to reevaluate this because we have permission to hunt about the next year, and then we need to take a stand on the next season, how we're going to approach it. We're gonna go for a second. A senator had a word about what this built and the expectations of others. I've arranged for us to have a policy of our own, and we should have a choice to use and enjoy our nature as long as it's sustainable. Hv. A senator admitted that he could have this position as an Icelandic senator, but it is based on another position that is out there. This may be the point I'm trying to point out, for such an attitude has often been based on some misunderstanding or even misinformation. So I think it's very important that we here get the right information on the table. [[The president calls.]] If it turns out that it is not wise to continue hunting, we make such a decision. [[The president calls.]] On the other hand, if it turns out that it's wise to continue fishing, we will go out into the world and give reasons for our stand.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u133	A respectable president. We're talking about a proposal that's about revising whale policy and looking for information. The Prime Minister is here called, like a what? paritaprevir Brutish the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir had said before, because I think that whaling is not just a matter of whaling. This is a macropolitic question that has so many implications, e.g. Iceland's status and reputation in the international community As a result, I believe that it is normal to have a greeting to the prime minister. I don't think there's much to say about public opinion in the world about these fishing and how other nations feel about them. I think it's a real challenge to go for a whale hunter, and I don't think it's necessary, but to have many words about the effect that whaling has on Iceland's reputation, but information is always necessary, they're always for good. It is sometimes spoken of as if hunting whales were a form of nationality, national industry, and even the fact that lying against whales is somehow contrary to the life - style of the hunting community at the northern sea, that there are some types of native fishing here. I think it's a misunderstanding. Me and the Icelanders haven't had a long story or a tradition of whaling. We, however, have a long tradition of whale dragons. Many procedures are valid for whale drivers, as indicated by e.g. Right away in the Grey River, Iceland's oldest law book. However, in 1915, whale fishing was practiced in Iceland after centuries, especially by the Bjords and so the Norwegians, until Icelanders were banned from hunting whales. In fact, I think I may say that it is the first whaling ban set on the world. Since the organized fishing of the Icelanders in a whale begins in 1935, it may be possible to say that if we Icelanders view whaling as native fishermen, they took this native fishing 1,000 years to begin hunting. In 1948, WHALE is an hf. Established and, as we know, the very potent activities of that group while still being marketed for whale products. Most of that time has now come to pass. This fishing seems to be the result of some kind of stubbornness and intended to, as shown in the discussions here, not to be told what to do, to be an independent nation at all costs, to be a kind of ethnic fishing, fundamental in Icelandic self - image and Icelandic livelihood. But that's not the case. I'm not going to go trace it here rather a whale fishing story in Iceland. All I'm saying is that there is a chance of talking about these fishing at the same time as we talk about the gypsy fishing of the Faeroeists or if we talk about seal fishing in Greenland. This is not a major aspect of our survival and self - image. It's out of the question. In the chapters of the active whaling of a man something like fishing on large animals, such as elephants or even lions in Africa, and then men form themselves with prey. This is called in foreign - language, i.e. souvenirs, these are some kind of souvenir fishing or souvenir hunting. Maybe you can also call this an honorable hunt. Somehow, this whaling works a little on a man like that fishing, rather than that these fishing are exactly the traditional means practiced to profit from it. It is clear that in Japan long - tested meat is only market and market access to whale meat in Japan has been very difficult because of low demand. The import of this meat has not shown much interest in the Japanese government. It's been going up and down to the market, and as we know, moving the meat almost as if it were carrying some sort of weapon transport. In fact, Kristján Loftsson has acknowledged this. He told the morning issue of February 25, 2016, by permission of a president: ▪ If we had known what was about to happen in Japan when we started back in 2009, after a 20 - year break, we would never have started again. Kristján, however, did not mention in this interview that the international food trade with whale meat has been banned according to the CITS Convention, which is a contract for an international market with an animal's products at risk of extinction. Endangered animals have long since been on the world list. Whether we weave it or not, a commercial store with a whale meat on a international scale has been viewed almost as if it had ivory. Since it is thought that meat trades, the Spanish newspaper is worthy of not lying. A report on April 16, 2014, reports that the hunting of Icelanders has caused Icelandic lamb to be not advertised in the Whole Foods trades in the United States in the previous year, and thus the aims for increasing sales since 2012 have not been established. This was observed by Ágúst Andrésson, president of the Landsama Mall, at the main meeting of sheep farmers in 2014. This is a relationship between the whale hunt of this company, Whale hf, and the relapse in the marketing of Icelandic lamb in the United States. In general, in this matter there may be two viewpoints, one of the attitudes of life that he sees fit to hunt what he likes and just almost have to do, that animal and natural life are for man's provision and use as he sees fit and, on the other, the view of life to see man not as lord of the earth, but part of the ecosystems of the earth, and that he must constantly bear in mind how he acts and acts on this ecosystem. According to this vision, all life in itself is of value and value beyond man, and man is obliged to bear it in mind and respect it. [[The president calls.]] It is an attitude that I think that respect is also required of all of us as we meditate on this fishing process. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u134	A respectable president. I was going to finish my speech this day, but I plan to do it. I'm sorry I fell out a bit, but I think he was wondering about it when I compared it to Greenland and the Faeroes. Am I right? He meant there was nothing like this. I'd like to say that I have a clear understanding that these are not completely comparable. I completely agree with the senator when it is time to do so. But then I'd also like to say that, because I've taken the responsibility of being a private fighter for the independence of the Faeroes and Greenlanders and for their livelihood and their recognition in international cooperation, I'm pretty sure that these fine nations find our support for their hunting very important. I think they also think it is very important that we, now again, use the same wording, stand up for challenges that arise from stopping whales, provided that their challenges are not based on scientific foundations. Hv. Using the word whalers, a senator felt that there was a steady decrease in the number of them. Then I'm going to reiterate that I'm not going to classify myself as a whale hunter, rather than I am the activationist. My ideas and what I was trying to argue with earlier simply came up with the fact that I find it very important that when we make decisions like this, they base on some logical, real scientific argument, either on the effect on the trunk, which is the most important part, or the importance of other professions, but not on feelings toward certain animal species above any other. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u135	Thank you. A senator resists. I'll tell you right away, I haven't classified anything. A member of a congregation, whether a whale hunter or an adversary, realizes that she simply wants to collect information and then take a stand on the basis of it. Greenland and Faeroe. I support the struggle between the Greenlandians and the Faults in their way of life and the preservation of their way of life. I think it's very important that we maintain variety in people's way of life at all, and join in with the wind. A member of the Parliament to support the Greenlandians and movemen to the highest level of self-management. I do, however, think that WHALE Hf. may be a bit like a stowaway in that struggle. I don't think that the whale fishing of the Icelanders could possibly be comparable to the fishing and life of the older nations, simply because of that, as I thought I was now traceable by my speech, that whales were not practiced by the Icelanders, they were not practiced for 1,000 years by the Icelanders, but were practiced by other nations. This is a type of industrialized factory business that can be referred to as some form of nature's way of life.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u136	A respectable president. I think I may disagree. A senator is about to make decisions about the use of certain animal organizations based on whether or not there is a tradition. If we take the Greenlands and the Faeroe Islands as examples, it is very difficult for the Greenlands to cultivate another food, and they are used to catching wild animals. It is also so that the situation in Greenland, economics, and other circumstances, calls for it very much. In the Faeroe Islands, it's not. Moving ears are on a winding cruise, where economic growth is great and butter is dripping with every straw, at least at the moment. Still, they have continued their gypsy fishing, which, of course, is primarily based on some sort of tradition. But I think it's important to watch fish and use animals primarily according to the position of their institutions and the right of the nations to use them. Here is a specific company mentioned in this discussion and I really have no position on that company. In my mind, it's just some person who's catching because there's a permit for them and I suppose it's very expensive to build up boats and other things to work a whale. But some kind of factory production - I would like to refer only to what I was going through here before in speech and answers. When you look at food production and catch wild animals, and then you see food production again, whether it's a pig or chicken farm or salmon farm or whatever it is, I think it's also good to consider carbon tracks and environmental factors in these substances. That's perhaps what I was talking about in the big picture, the importance of looking at the big picture.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u137	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I wholeheartedly agree that this is about our obligation to weigh and weigh all the interests involved and then make decisions on the basis of it. That's right. That's what happened. A senator, that there's blues and butter of every straw in the Faeroe Islands, use the Faeroes to form fishing fees to finance his community. Emotions - wow. A senator turned his back on his emotions, and it is true that we must not just be controlled by our emotions. But I have felt that the greatest emotional activity in the matter is just what turns out that the Icelanders have as a nation a special right to hunt a whale. The word as the dog. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson used earlier, the National Þjórður - that is the most emotional way of dealing with the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u138	A respectable president. The suggestion here is, in itself, the most excellent proposal. She appeared last year, if I remember correctly, at least she's been through before, and I could better understand what she was talking about. I wondered when I saw her now whether it had been forgotten to update her in view of the fact that it is already working part of what is being asked here. Let it be, opposition must take its place and mark it, and that is just the nature of the council. I have personally participated in it and will do so in the future. I'm not going to go very deep into the content of this proposal. However, my personal opinion is, when I have listened to many of the candidates of the proposal, that if I had been among them, I would simply have proposed a prohibition against the whales. I feel that the legislature authority is putting too much power on the European Commission. If the greater part of the Generals feels that whaling should be banned at the greater part of the Generals just to agree on that policy. But let it be, it's all absolute detail, and it's not said in any way, but it's only my position on this matter. I'm generally very into it because the Council is more interested in collecting information and making informed decisions, so I have a positive view of all suggestions in that direction. As to this exact suggestion, I will not declare a stand for support or opposition in any other way than what I have already said. I just want to talk about whaling. The nature of the matter according to this discussion has only developed into the discussion. I have to say in my part that it has been a long time since I've seen as much meaningful and as good a discussion as I've observed in this matter. This is where we're talking, that I think it's very unbiased, our opinions on whale hunting, our traditions and the importance and place of tradition should have, of course, of self - determination, etc. I'm only going to allow myself here at the end of the day, a respectable president, to dive into that pool or even take me up a little. I'm not sorry to do that. In itself, I do not have a special view of the phenomenon of catching a whale rather than catching other animals. To some extent, I think a similar viewpoint was made evident in the matter. paritaprevir Jón Steindór, Valdimarsson of Valdrim earlier. I hope I'm not misinformed. In order not to put myself into the psalms that I could do it I'm going to talk here directly again about myself, for I like it the most. I don't believe that man is master of nature but that man is part of nature and that animals naturally live on each other. They are designed by someone or have evolved. Man is no exception. On the other hand, I have great respect for people who have a different opinion, who believe that we have no head to kill animals, whether on environmental grounds, as some have, moral grounds, or health grounds I have also heard of. I have great respect for that, and each one is to have his own reason for it. However, I am made to feel that it is normal for us to fish for food. I was sitting with a lot of heads. The members of the Generals for lunch, where we ate meat, and we did well to eat our food there, making it expensive for me. I don't like animalism, that one animal is considered superior to other animals, that, because we think some animal is intelligent or noble, it must not be killed. This includes the possibility of a stupid, noble animal being allowed to kill, and it's a ide that I don't like. On the other hand, I am very willing to accept emotional practices that were mentioned earlier. Emotions are very often used, even by the fiercest supporters of the whale. I don't go so far as to call them whale hunters, though I certainly agree that they exist, but I haven't yet met one of the roughest supporters of whales who don't use emotional practices in any situation when it comes to some animal. A pretty big part of the Icelanders don't want to google. We don't want to hunt the loon, but it's okay to hunt the grouse. Is it Jónas Hallgrímsson and the romance or why we don't eat loo like the French? I don't know. That's an emotional fault for many people. We don't eat dogs, there's nothing but emotional sex either. There is no reason why we should not eat a dog like a calf. We have just decided, for our own good, to weigh a dog and a calf differently. I don't give anything to those who want to hunt and minimize the emotional beds of opposers of whale hunting. I'll blow it. However, I spoke of it earlier that it was my opinion that man would kill animals. Animals kill animals, and man is an animal to me. On the other hand, I prefer sustainable fishing and sustainable use, culture or what we call it, when we talk about farms. There I wondered, " The whales of Iceland. ' I often feel like we forget about it during the discussion, even though I have reminded it very regularly in this presentation, that under sustainable conditions there are three support, environmental, economic and social. I suppose, in view of the research I've seen, that the licenses given to hunt a whale meet the environmental requirements, i.e. Do not over-step the powder. That's all I've seen. It may even exist, and I simply haven't found it. My food, in view of the information I have, is that it should be kept safe. Then there are two other support for sustainability. Will whaling satisfy the economic demands we make in our economic support? I'll have to question it. I haven't seen the annual bills of the company that hunt and I haven't seen the assessment that even. is called on here to determine the overall economic impact of whale hunting on Icelandic society. That is why I am relatively positive for the ideas behind it. Then there's the third support, which is so social. There I will allow myself to claim that whaling does not meet the demands of us who are expected to support our social support for sustainability. I'm going to allow myself to assert, and then someone can put it in my mouth as many times do when they say that it's my food - you see how I made my back there? - that socializing is simply not self-sustaining. The community's attitude toward whale fishing, whether in Iceland or in the larger part of the world that we all live, has become so self-sustained that whaling is no longer sustainable. That's why it's my opinion that the whale fishing of Iceland is not sustainable, and that's why I'm not in favor of the whale hunting of Icelanders. I wanted to get these thoughts into this conversation, a respectable president, including. Because I think we need to realize this with sustainability, that it's not just about counting animals. It's about a lot more than that. And I would also like to mention the emotions and the strong ones that speak against someone not thinking about killing a whale because of emotion and asking those who demean the opinion of wondering what they think of a lubricantation and a meal made of a small poodle dog. Show respect for one another's opinions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u139	A respectable president. I'm kind of inclined to simply repeat it as a matter of course. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé went over here, and I was so cordially agreeing with his speech. I thought she was good and logical. I also wanted to mention this with the emotional practices that have only been discussed here. Without wanting to go completely to the bases of ethics, it would be more work, and this pont would probably not be the place, I can at least... For me, my opposition to torture, slavery, and the death penalty is most emotional. I don't like these things, and I don't want them to be recognized in the community. I could probably offer some economic reasons for that, I'm sure I could pick up some scientific research that would help me convince others that these were bad things, but after all, it's not what I'm building on these things. I just think they're disgusting and I don't want to see it. I don't want this to exist. In that sense, I feel that exactly emotional activities can be a factor. It doesn't rule out the other reasons, it doesn't rule out scientific and economic arguments, but I believe I support the case, and I probably feel that I do this study, no matter what I personally think about whaling, not just because I think it's perfunctory to persuade others who still disagree with me, but because I think it's the right thing to have it all in perspective when it's final decision is made. Although I am opposed to whale hunting now and believe I have sufficient grounds to shape me, I have such a stand, e.g. I don't suggest that they be banned because I feel it's right that these things are possible before the legislatures like the Council make such a decision. I think it's a normal procedure and a verbal aspect of allowing everyone to make their own decision based on the values and preselections that each one chooses. Now it's with me and this attitude like my usual stand-- I don't quite know if I dare always say but at least the most frequent - that new data can always change it. I'm always willing to change my mind if I see some new evidence or new logic that upsets the older one. There may well be something published in a survey that would result from this resolution if the proposal is adopted or the government's study to make that would change my view, but the 2010 report concluded that it was still economicly practical, regardless of what it was said, that there was no basis for us to do this, but despite the conclusion, I object to whales. The rationale that this is economic economic economic, or whether a government or a minister or a working group has weighed and assessed the figure out against economic recovery in some way is not in itself the prerequisite I use to form a stand against the whales. My premise is that they are to be exemplary in public and nationalities. I would like to consider the response of others. Sometimes I say to people and to myself, " You control what you do, but you don't control how others react. I don't think it in any way dangerous when a person chooses to adopt a behavior or language directly in order to make someone else feel better. I'm sure I do, and I think it's normal behavior. Then people can become involved in some form of oppression, for example. People use mental or emotional violence and thus convince people. I don't think anything like that's going on here. I think opposers of whale hunting are opposers of the whale, on a very sincere basis. Actually, I'm not worried, so I'm just saying, because we'd overfish whales, but our attitude toward animal killings is fair and it's right to question whether we should kill the other animal or this animal. I think it's totally normal. I also find it very boring not to have more time to discuss these matters because I wanted to go over it with an independent people who have every right to use their resources. I repeat what I said before: I have not noticed anyone suggesting that we hand over this decision to foreign powers, that we should take it ourselves as an independent nation, but that means that we must also be able to make a decision that, while guided by our own expectations, is to see how our image is toward others that we might disagree on some economic issues. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-22-36.u140	Mr. President. I want to use this opportunity to thank you. paritaprevir The Hrafn Snæfni Gunnarsson, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, Andri Thorsson, and Sirorgi Óttarsson Proppér, for the conversation that I believe, as a few examples. Little candles on chapters, but it was okay, it's just the seasoning of life. In a material sense, though, these were interesting discussions. We talked on philosophical terms. We also discussed ethics and morals. We went over the animal kingdom and how the animals line up, either by intelligence or by great name, or by nothing at all. What I take out of this discussion, regardless of the form of the proposal itself or where it goes, is that we all agree more and less that it is very important that we look at these matters so that we use, as well. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé correctly pointed to the sustainable test. It is the environment, the economics, and the social affairs. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé tore a fine, fine, fine, fine, fine. The interpretation proposal in itself goes on to indicate that the evaluation will be performed and on the basis of it the decisions made. We may have different opinions about what this assessment will lead, but I think it is wise to let this assessment take place and make decisions on that basis. That's, I think, too, the exact answer to the question as well. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, quoted at the outset, said: "Why don't the movers just go straight to work and present a synod proposal to ban whaling? That in itself is a legitimate question. But he actually answered himself by mentioning that we should watch this from our sustainable standards. Humans can view all of this with different attitudes, whether they are talking about animal protection, morals, or nature protection or commercial interests or all of that. But we have these instruments, and I think it would be very good if we were to accept this assessment, so it led to a conclusion that can be reasonably acceptable to humans. However, we know, and it's like with a lot of cases, that eventually there's a conclusion, and there's always people on the edge who will never be happy, no matter what the outcome is. I suppose there'll be a lot of people in this case. But I just want to reiterate my gratitude for it. Parliamentaries who participated in a good discussion.
