ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-37.u1	There have been two letters from the travel, industrial, and innovation secretary where they want to ask for an invitation to give written answers to the inquiries on the deck. 57, on the willies, from Óli Björn Kárason, and on the threshing floor. 274, about the wind, from the Halla of Signý's Kristjánsdóttir. Borist has received a letter from a health minister asking for every request to provide a written answer to a covering query. 261, for formal talk from medical institutions, from Björn Leví the son of Gunnarsson. Finally, a letter from the Ministry of Education and Culture has been received where the request is made to provide a written answer for the application of this request. 287, on legal matters at the Icelandic Board of Students, from Alex B. Stefánsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-37.u2	To answer, Secretary of Economics and Economics, Education and Culture and Foreign Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-37.u3	A respectable president. For years, Eiríkur Rögnvaldsson, professor of Icelandic grammar at the University of Iceland, has criticized the standardized test in Icelandic languages in a direct and well-founded way for measuring ill - advised knowledge in Icelandic languages, for setting up students, as well as for Eiríkur's direct errors in these tests. While Eiríkur's criticism has not failed because of the Institute of Education, last night students were shocked that the primary schools were wearing the test electronically, and others were not granted access to it. In fact, yesterday's access was made so that only about 1,700 of the over 4,000 students completed the test by force. A student in high school who prepares for these tests is an all - time adventurer and even a year - long hatred for Icelandic languages and Icelandic literature. Several school students have expressed doubts about the value of these tests at all, and yesterday, Hafsteinn Karlsson, the principal of Sala school in Kópavogi, to form on their Facebook website, by permission of Presidents, writes that these tests are the remains of a previous school job, a type of product that gets in the way of modern school activity. They live in the National Museum, in a locked closet to this day. A Hafsteinn also asks, and I know that more students and students ask: What is the purpose of the consistent tests today, and what are they going to measure? Are they in the process of improving school? Have they improved school activities? It would be interesting to hear the Minister's ideas on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-37.u4	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a very good inquiry. First, I'd like to say that we at the Ministry of Education and Culture were just about to make a statement saying we regret that the performance of a concerted test has just failed. This has caused great discomfort for students and teachers. I had a meeting with the director of the National Institute of Education, Arnór Guðmundsson, yesterday afternoon to review the scope of the problem and why this would have happened. I just want to inform the Congress that what happened was just a technical error for the service servants, they had not transferred the test to a more productive network server. As a result, a response plan began and was stressed as informing everyone. Of course it's a very bad case. Students have been preparing for this test, like what. A senator mentioned, for a while, and of course, it is very bad when students fail to complete the test. As a result, I have decided to invite all the stakeholders to my next Wednesday meeting to review this situation and decide what will be done because of the situation that has come up. I've had a very good relationship with the school directors and most stakeholders on this matter. I've been informed that the math survey that is going on is going very well, and I wish this test would be quite successful. Regarding the senator's question, I don't think we've come to that point right now to decide what to do about the uniform tests. They have been practiced for a considerable period of time, they have advantages, and they also have faults, but there is a need to be firm for consideration, and we need to make such a decision, and we need to prepare it very carefully.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-37.u5	A respectable president. I appreciate the answers to the minister. What's not a good thing? Do not dispose of all the fish immediately. Let's ride the hay, because soon it's raining. The journey meant killing me alive. It was a great weight off my shoulders. This is from a sample of a coordinated exploratory test at the 10th grade on the National Institute of Education. I'm not gonna spit on the highest. A minister asking her for answers to the question as to which these are not considered to be a good issue, for she is likely to be as confused as I am. But I ask again if such a approach to mother - in - law should not be a thing of the past, should not be in a closet in the National Museum, is there not any reason to shed this burden on young people?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-37.u6	A respectable president. I think it's very important to look into these issues and see what they mean and what they don't mean today. We stand, as I have mentioned before, at a turning point in education. We're on red light in a lot of places. There are challenges to the teacher's position. We don't get the replacement we need. The competition of the school system has deteriorated, also with Iceland. I think we're going to give a heads-up. A senator is very good, and he wants to look at them in cooperation with the council. There are so many things we have to do to strengthen all the educational work around the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-37.u7	A respectable president. The decision of the Council to increase pay for members and Ministers was controversial, and the effect of this decision still rests on future labour agreements. However, in addition to this, before the election of 2017, a letter of advice was sent to a minister who, by permission of the president, said: The final June 1, 2016, issue of Awake! It also says that between the time and August 2017, Iceland's monthly pay sheet grew by 7.3%. Therefore, pay for work in a board of dressers is suggested to increase in the same way. The core published yesterday an article on this increase in pay to the Council of Elders, where a minister responded on December 6, 2017, shortly after being installed in 2017: The suggestion is made. Remuneration should be increased by 7.3% from August 1, 2017.◯ 7.3% according to the pay number. The pay index is a very high measure, and the increase in salary is an increase in excess of others. It is important to keep this in mind, since the pay card especially measures how the individual's salary development works. If an experienced company stops and less experienced person comes, the company's pay will be reduced, but the pay will not change. So I would like to ask a minister: Would it be reasonable to raise the salary of the Ministers and senators by 7.75 percent since the increase in Icelandic Habitat's pay number since November 2016? Would it not be reasonable to have the same amount of pay paid for the country's salary? If not, why not? Should they just send a letter to the Ministry?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-37.u8	A respectable president. I can see why. A senator is here showing criticism that those who are in charge of the state, such as those in the U.S. counsel, do not have time to get changes in their pay of time as they meet the index value of pay in the country but should take some other criteria. I think if we were to check, we'd find that the cost of time paid by the state for a special service in general is somewhere in the range of time paid by a concierge body to do. It's probably a matter of reviewing at the council in the way the Ministry of Economic Affairs should determine the changes in the ears over a longer period of time. The pay sheet is certainly not perfect. Hv. A senator asks if I feel that the salary of a minister or a senator should change according to the pay number. I'd like to answer that question, so I'd rather think of the suggestion, which is contained in a new report on these topics that suggests that we look at average changes in public employees. Other than that, I have to say that. A senator does not get me to make new arrangements on how to make decisions on these matters for members of Congress or Ministers. We have seen that we intend to follow the conclusion reflected in a new report on these topics, and I am working on a bill to change law in accordance with that conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-37.u9	A respectable president. My criticism focuses on the increase in salary. If a grad check goes up for a pay check, why not somebody else? I'll put out that according to a pay number, but the Board of Elders specifically asks for an increase relative to that index and minister agrees with that opinion. Why do I ask why others don't? We're here referred to government personnel, we're supposed to aim the salary of senators and ministers for a mean change. It is less than a change in salary. Why does a chicken adviser get an increase based on a pay number?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-37.u10	A respectable president. I believe a reference to the pay card in this case was, in fact, judgment. It must be kept in mind that over time the pay in the community will change for any special decisions, pay contracts, or collective contracts. If we watch those who take the pay by the government, the pay card will show that something is going on in the community while the tax is attached, i.e. then all the hours fall down dead until the next decision is made. They are not accompanied by public pay development in the country. It's gonna be. A senator taking into account when he criticizes that pay is then made up of one determined decision to conform to some standard, such as a pay number.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-37.u11	Mr. President. In recent years false news that has been focused on special states or interests has increased very much. These are news reports of a wide variety of ways, but they often share that their purpose is to have a negative impact on interest, domestic and foreign, the Kingdom to which they are concerned. They can become business interests, elections, and the image of the state outside, to name just a few. In the North countries, governments have actively countered such news efforts by establishing special teams who are involved in finding such reports, especially in communication, and responding to them, supporting free media and researchers in an effort to eliminate such reports. A careful report issued by the U.S. Congress at the beginning of the year is called the Russian attack on democracy in Russia and Europe. It shows that in the northern part of the world, Russia promotes false news on the Internet in various ways. An example of the 2015 Finnish election is taken. There were a fewTwitter accessors that seemed to be linked to the Finnish Parliament. At first it seemed that there was a very ordinary Twitter accounts, where the discussion was natural in terms of Finnish politics and the number of people with what was published was increasing constantly. Then, just before the election, these Twitter bills are going to make U-turn and publish political news which was not prior to and was clearly meant to influence the election. In the investigation, it was found that the Russians were behind these Twitter bills. More examples are given in the United States General report from Denmark, Norway, and Sweden. Fighting false news is national security and a vital international issue of interest. So I want to ask the highest. Secretary of State: Is there false news and information about Iceland and Icelandic interests? [[The president calls.]] Does anyone react to false news about Iceland and Icelandic interests?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-37.u12	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. He asks about things that are very important and that were a good reason for his concern, which I share with him. Senator. It may never have been easier to get the so - called news we can call false news into the air, and it often goes quite far. This is discussed in various institutions in which we are involved. I mention, for example. The Atlantic Community, which is the precise subject of these factors. There are various sources of news, including to the rest of them. A senator describes it. He refers to the work that is organized, but at times it is not. This is difficult when we engage in discussions, but it is supposed to be relatively simple - that is, what we have done, and that is done by the foreign service in various matters that at least come out with corrections in the face of pure facts. We have not seen that we have experienced this, as did our neighboring kingdom. A senator is referring, but this does not mean that we should stay awake. That's what we do, not only at the Ministry, but also with our emissaries. Question question. A senator is a good man and an important man. A senator and all of us are aware of the situation in the international community. The answer to that question is that we are aware of this and that we are keeping on the watch. It's an eternal battle and something we can't relax with.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-37.u13	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for taking care of the situation. It seems to me that his answer is that we don't have a special team of materials like the North countries. I'd like to encourage the highest. A minister to see if it is appropriate to establish some kind of team in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, the State Police Department, and the State Marshal's Intelligence Department. It is very important to hold these things and record them. We are living in a changing world, and Europe is at a loss, as we know about Russia in particular and its spread in Europe. That's why I think it's important to record it, as well as try to find out the world of these countries, but the Russians have been very important in this regard. The U.S. Senate report, published in January, is very careful, and I encourage a minister to study it or to learn more about it by the Ministry's staff.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-37.u14	A respectable president. To make it quite clear, even if you ask for it. This is not new news for us in foreign service. It's not. This is one of the things we've been focusing on when it comes to changing the foreign service that we need to pay more attention and to emphasize these matters more than we have done for this, which we have indeed done, to bring up the right information, to correct facts, and to simply false news when it comes to Iceland. So there's nothing new about it. Hv. A senator rightly points out that this, of course, is a national security issue. This too has been discussed in a relatively new national security Council. You're right next door. A senator that this is a team of members. I'm glad to hear it. A senator draws attention to this matter, and it is important that we discuss it and keep on the watch. It is vital that we do more than that. But I would like to make it clear that it is not that we in the foreign service have not been aware of this and that we are working on these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-37.u15	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance for the State Bank Office. State banking is an important organization, as it shows on its web, and it clearly has many appeals to look as it says in the legislation on the Agency. In 1st. states that the government's banking agency has a share of government property in financial institutions and in Article 4. magazines are listed up and there are many of them. If you visit the Bank Office and read it, you will find that the government's banking agencies take over financial assets. The front page lists the property of the state bank administration in banks. In Arion Bank, the bank office's share is reported to be 13% and named the representative of the bank office under the control of the bank. The government's banking department has today, says a story, completed a 13% share of the State in Arion's bank to Copenhagen, reaching the value of 23,452 million. K. This is a report from February 26th. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] Then comes the 9th C.E. The law that bears the signature The lid of the operation: The ceremony will have completed no later than five years after its arrival and will then be laid down. That's what the 9th says. This law is from 2009, and the Agency has completed its work. The law went into effect on August 20, 2009, and the Agency's life span has been reached by three and a half years ago. That's why I'm asking the highest. Financial Minister: What is the position of the government banking system still under way? Second, what is the value of commitmental decisions made by the Agency? Or perhaps it is, as if with an unsuccessary youth at the top. The secretary of finance needs to write up every move that takes place within this institution?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-37.u16	A respectable president. To this end, I consider that the main aspect of this inquiry is to be addressed to the law that deals with the work period of the Bank Office. It has been considered to be published in the laws of human originally existing plans for the period of work in the Bankandis. At the time, I publicly introduced ideas of following these plans so that we would put the bank office down as an independent institution but would continue to be careful about arm lengths, having named the Ministry of Economic Affairs instead of the agency's experts to look out for that role. At that time, it was very clear during the council that people did not consider that to be so. In addition, it was the general understanding that the Agency would not be submitted without a specific new law. For this cause it is just as it were. A member of the body points out that the directive has been misdirected, that the Agency should be employed for only five years. Now it is left behind by the council and valid reasons why it should be recorded. In my mind, however, there is no doubt that the Agency can perform its legal tasks, formally abandon legal matters that are under the law, including signing contracts such as those referred to here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-37.u17	A respectable president. V.E.G. According to the secretary of finance, there was a plan for the Bank Office to have this life span in its own time. But we have to remember that the Bank Management Board was set up because of a temporary situation because of what happened in 2008. She was given a lifetime in the law, and that time has long passed. It's been three and a half years. I believe there is a complete uncertainty about the activities of the Agency after that time point. Things are past. The law has time. That time has passed. And because of the highest. Secretary of finance is the highest man of the tax system I'm asking: Do you think men will build, e.g. The law of taxation that is spoken of at the end of the statement? You think so? No, I don't think so. Or that punishment should be executed according to a law that has failed?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-37.u18	A respectable president. It must be in this context to distinguish between the time when laws have set in the law plans for the institution to play this role in a fixed period of time. This is an absolute distinction, and officially legalization is terminated if their time has passed. But that doesn't apply here. We're talking, not about the law's principles of the Bank County, but about the plans that were originally intended for the Agency to exist. There's a lot of difference. However, it is possible to say that the law contains a record of this. At the time, we thought that after five years we would be rid of property items in financial companies, but the reverse has happened. We have a largely increased share of the state's property in financial companies and sales at the 13% share in Arion Bank is the first trust in a financial holding site that takes place since the establishment of the Bank Management Board. This is certainly not so that we have reached the goal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-37.u19	Mr. President. By permission of the president, I would like to quote the government covenant, which says: The European Commission considers the implementation of the EEA contract to be one of the most important stakeholders in Iceland, and the General Assembly needs to be more active in this. I would also like to quote from our latest report. Secretary of state. It says, by permission of the president: If there is a strong delay in the introduction of EEA rules in Icelandic legislation, the result is that it is not possible to follow the same rules in Iceland and elsewhere in the European Economic Areas. This undermines the main objective of the EEA Convention. It seems to me that Iceland's draft hall is increasing despite clear targets set in recent years to reach the Import Hall to 1% or less. His last measurements were about 2%. I believe it will increase with the next report by EFTA. So I would like to ask the minister: What plans are there to make this up? Clearly, effort is needed. Likewise, we are subtracting governmental warnings on actions, and they are flooding into the council without a basic element of confirmation of their actions. The question is, has the highest. The minister of foreign affairs is not concerned about the rights that may arise when we have lifted governmental warnings? These types have been accepted by the General Assembly, and they have actually come into effect. No law has been set to follow them. What's the highest plan. Minister of State for improvement?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-37.u20	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. When I got into the Ministry, one of the first things I did was start a job looking into these matters specifically. There is a future report on these matters, which is now in lecture, not just to address them at the same time. A senator referred to, i.e. the position of the case and where the main necks of the bottle are, but it is important that everyone is aware of it, but as much as it matters, to see which way we must go to solve it. At least I can tell you what. The senator, based on the information I have received, is not increasing. However, we have not achieved our goals. The short story seems to be that before we went into the adaptation discussions with the European Union, we were not in trouble with the Import Hall. It seems, though, that they changed the arrangement we had with them during our adaptation talks. As a result, this ensuing hall grew like that. A senator referred to him. Before that time, Iceland and I were sometimes better off, so to speak, when it came to induction. Then, after the adaptation talk was stopped, the arrangement was not placed where it was before. So I have been working on reforms that aim to get things started and try to work organizedly to work out the current situation. A senator referred to him. I hope I can distribute this report at least next week.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-37.u21	Mr. President. Thanks for the answer. It's a good thing that men are writing a report of improvement, and hopefully that'll be a good report. However, I have a measure of concern that interest is at its height. The Minister of Foreign Affairs and Ministers of the Government are somehow not very focusive on the EEA community. The interest seems to be elsewhere, and it does not have to be a lot of words about interest. Minister of Foreign Affairs on Baltrexit and his admiration for those at its front. High-level party. Ministers have joined political parties in Europe within the European Union of the ESCR, which oppose European cooperation. But I'd like to finally use the last seconds to ask questions about the highest recommendations. A few days ago, the secretary of finance for a discussion in which he spoke of the European Union crossing over its partners within the EEA Convention EFTA. That the EFTA countries, our fellow soldiers, were indulgent and that it had become a very special problem. He'll agree with that with the highest. Ministers that our fellow union in EFTA is powerless?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-37.u22	A respectable president. Hv. A senator was somewhat wrong in his case. For one thing, he referred to this international organization, the European Union to which the Independence Party is involved, but most categories there are very close to the EU and produced in fact the British remain in the EU in the Bgret election. Likewise, I did not recognize the statement of the highest degree. Secretary of the budget that the EFTA countries would be unremarkable. I hope so. A senator will be more objective in the discussion, which is important. V.E.G. The secretary of finance spoke of what I thought everyone knew, that it is important to keep the two solid solutions we've talked about from time to time. In case of a moment. Congress officials are not aware of this and do not agree with the Supreme Court. I think it's something special. Hv. A senator's concern is that I'm interested elsewhere. I'm interested in taking care of Iceland's interests. One thing is to take care of our interest in the EEA agreement, but it's not to say that there are more interests. Hv. A senator well knows that there are more interests than the EEA deal. Hv. For example, a senator knows that the world is changing. He knows that there are very large markets, large middle - class groups all over the world. [[The president calls.]] The fact that the government is aware of the protection of Iceland's interests does not rule out anything else, especially the national interests at the EEA Convention.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-37.u23	A respectable president. Just a minute. This morning a press conference on a national development programme was held. There we received an Environmental and Transport Committee that was quite good and very pleasant to review, but two hours later we were e-mailed that this cornea's package contained confidential information. We did not know that when we received the data, so I wondered, " Do I have confidential information or not? ' This package that I got into my hands is not marked with confidentiality. I don't know what to do with this e-mail, what to do with whether I have confidential information or not. I could have asked for the evidence without the confidential information. It's no problem, it's just said that the crowns warned the truth, so I'm looking to the president for advice on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-37.u24	The president is ignorant of this matter so that he can offer little help. A senator, at least at this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-37.u25	V.E.G. President. We're paying a vote for a synonym on a synopsis proposal to develop economic accounts for total state funds and individual Member States in Part A. This is a fundamental change in terms of accounting for Part A as a whole will be made on the basis of international accounting standards at the base of the management sector. Since we really commit the project to the government after the induction of the change, the therapy of property should be considered and that we owe to the requirements of such changes. This change is in line with 52. g. it's a government law. As this work is taking account to the base of the management sector, the balance balance will be changed from what used to be invested and canceled during the lifetime of investments. Simply put, a foundation means that money is being added to the period established for them. All of them. The legal committee agrees with this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-37.u26	Mr. President. I recommend a proposal for a hearing on the publication of a Western songbook, from the Foreign Affairs Committee. Under the heading "Birth of the Ages " Councilmen Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynflfsdóttir, Logi Trausti Guðmundsson, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Dögnsdotttir, Smári Mccarthy, and Þorgerður Katrín Gunnarsdóttir. Far from being Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigurbjörn's daughter, and Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, but Sæland Goad, who sits at the hearing of the committee that is accepted by an audience. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by the Directors of the S. Brjánsson, president of Iceland's Western Council, Sigurður Ólafsson, executive director of the Western Council, and Árnadóttir, secretary of the Western National Council. The proposal encourages the government of Iceland to employ it, along with the National Governments of the Faeroe Islands and Greenland, for a Western songbook to be published by law on the three national languages. A Western songbook with songs in English, French, and Greenlandn would be a good introduction to the native languages and song culture of their neighbors. The first step in this direction would be to set up a team of professional people from the three countries who would choose the law and plan it along the lines. As the proposed report suggests, it is presented on the basis of the conclusions made by the Western Council No. 1,2017 approved at the annual meeting of the Governing Body, September 1, 2017, in Reykjavík. The committee has a positive view of the publication of Western songbooks but has doubts about the need for a government in the case. The Committee believes that the Western Council can operate on such projects, including Through a fund for Norwegian and Western cultural partnerships, without the special appeal of the Allied to the government. Thus, the committee uses a friendly recommendation to the Western Council to revise its procedure when it comes to a similar task. According to this, the committee does not want to interfere, suggesting that the proposal be accepted unchanged.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-37.u27	Mr. President. As any who have come close to the Westnoric Council's work know, the unusual cooperation of the Western Council is that of the conclusions adopted by the Western Council is directly decommissioned by the National Parliament of the Member States. This explains the suggestion presented here. To make long cases short, because on this subject, I wanted to express my view that I agree with the views presented in the Committee's Committee of State Affairs, that it might be interesting to study the version of a Western songbook. However, there can be serious doubts about the government of the Member States. So I support the proposal but insist that this support does not support the establishment of some kind of Kingdom edition of songbooks.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-08-37.u28	A respectable president. I welcome this request. I had publicly declared that I wanted to have an assessment of the administrative and business of a fish firm. In view of the fact that I expect the report request to be agreed with, I intend to withdraw my plans, at least For a time, it would be a double act. But once again I declare support for the report requests, and I believe it can be a good consideration of the necessary work that lay ahead of us for a review of the marine balance. This has been done in the past four fishing ministers, so the matter is reversed. I expect this project to be a good idea for the work ahead of us.
