ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-24-24.u1	The president wants to state that there has been a good deal to begin a meeting today. 1330, earlier than usual, and it is expected that the meeting will be emptied well before then. 15th Meeting arrangements are thus made to show cohesion with women on the day of women's vacation and to help elected representatives and staff of the Generals to complete their jobs at the end of the day. 1455 to emphasize the requirements for dress equality in the labour market and safety in the workplace.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-24-24.u2	Mr. President. I'd like to go on women's vacation day on the rules of procedure that are being negotiated within the Pirate Party, which relate to making the workplace feel welcome, unattracted at work because of harassment, harassment, sexual harassment, sexual harassment, and violence. It all rises out of #metho, that sortes start to make their own rules of procedure. Now I know that left greens recently arrived last week, I think, with their rules of action, the prohibition of sexual harassment and other illegal behavior. Pirats and I have been doing this by document since January. The document I was sharing with Pirates on Facebook for those who are interested in it. It's open. Everyone can make comments. We've looked to various people in the community. I myself attended a course at Judge Kjartan Björgvinsson Björvvin's Bjarni who has studied at the University of Iceland four times. The class is called #metoo and the law. There are so many things you've learned about what you have to do if you're going to create an environment where people don't feel hostile to come on the basis of sex or sexual orientation. If we do not, we are not creating equality on the basis of politics. The politics have so much to do with the political parties, and I'm not talking about if you're going to make a difference, you have to do it through the classes. The way we started doing the procedure - I did this at the council when we were doing this on the presiding committee, even calling it a "Montorment." After a valid translation of the UN regulations. Then we've taken it and won it, and we've worked to apply it to Icelandic reality, apply it to the political party, not national organization, as the United Nations is. We're all over the final meters and we can probably finish the first log we'll then share and allow people to access, i.e. specifically calls for reviews about next Monday. Anyone interested can enter the Pirate chat on Facebook, find the document, and make comments that we will, of course, take into consideration. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-24-24.u3	V.E.G. President. Good women. Happy birthday. On October 24, 1975, it was a remarkable day, a day in which women took a vacation and poured out on the street to show the importance of their work effort. I wasn't born then, but I always get a goose coat of pride when I see pictures of this event, a tangible solidarity of the struggle for rights. I'd like to talk about rights in general. Right struggles are for granted and for very important communities who want to be good communities. But that is not to say that it does not matter how right is being held. Lately, I've observed the verbal debate of the current labor president over the coming bargains and have become quite blunt. There are revolutions, such as profanity, which cannot be remembered in the Elder's pontus and in the hearts of people, if they allow other viewpoints to be passed on. But there must be a discussion of the context of this important matter. As a result, you may discuss what is stated in the News magazine today, the pay expenses of registered partners have generally increased faster than your income and partner's profits. It has to be said that the assistant bank manager and former chief economist of the European Union of Iceland says that there is no longer any real wage that can increase more than production. These views must be heard because they are relevant to the context of the parts so that the steps that the ladders will take will not lead us astray in the months ahead. Thus, it must be a minor respect for the discussion that while the routes are handled, we agree on our goals, to do as well as possible for all of us. Wickedness and other motives are both bad and unnecessary, not promoting the importance of a struggle for rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-24-24.u4	Mr. President. Ingibjörg H. Bjarnason was the first woman to be elected to the council. That was in 1922. She said, after she finished her job here, with President's permission: Of course, the first women, the pioneers, are affected by various concerns, only because they are women - but this is not the case. As the number of women increases at the Allied Council of the Icelanders, especially since they are women, the attack disappears. Ingibjörg on her clear view of the future, Elisbjörg realized that the key to equality, equality, and equality in society in general was education. She rejected the emphasis on training women to care for the home. She stressed that women have an education that would give them the opportunity to participate fully in the workforce. There are women like Ingibjörg H. Bjarnason, pioneers, and enthusiasm who have laid the foundation for how far we have reached equality and have laid the foundation for my daughters' future and their possibilities to be greater and everything other than their grandmothers. Thanks to that, and I believe we are here in this council hall to promote more and more those who led the way to equality. When others were born, I think that Ingibjörg H. Bjarnason had her place, and we are to remember the work and ideals that she had. The key to all equality, gender equality, and so forth is education.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-24-24.u5	Mr. President. Happy birthday. Recently in committee jobs, a government bill was introduced to members of the committee. It revealed that the bill was not really ready and was expected to be completed by the committee. The reason the General Assembly was offered an incomplete bill was that the broom was too high to return its primes to the council at the right time, although it was before they were ready. I'm not going to mention which bill this is, which department is or what else would identify the source of the explanation, because I appreciate the honesty given to the committee on the bill's status. So the management board is to perform, in effect, the perfect honesty of officials without getting defensive to itself or to a minister. I might be ashamed of a bad practice or way of doing things, but I'd rather focus on the honesty in this matter. You see, he helps to fix the missing things, and in this case, it is not too much. If these honestys were more common, I think things would be better here at the Council. That is why I want to commend, not be ashamed of this matter. I want more of these things. Even if they're not finished, I want to hear it. It is far better than trying to hide potential flaws. It is far better than always having to fix things afterwards. Although your initial reaction to this kind of message may be curious, it gives you confidence, confidence in the fact that even though the method of work is reprehensible, it may be at least one way of thinking. not being hiding anything. It may be remarkable to have to thank for being honest. I just really wanted to thank you for this honesty. It's hard, you see, to admit things that are deliberately wrong. I hope you don't have to admit this kind of work again, but I hope that if it needs to be done, it will. At least now I have reason to hope for such honesty. I just want to thank the people who introduced the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-24-24.u6	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, happy birthday. The social lesion is in the social category of social security. Most nations around us have responded to such conduct. By hindering the ability of the main owners and managers to shelter limited responsibilities, we find that running their companies repeatedly will lead to failure. In the case of private partner and partner, it is a principle that no member is personally responsible for the overall commitment of the society. Under the rule, there is a reasonable argument and that a person should have the opportunity to start a business without personally responsibility for the resulting commitments. Over the past few years, many have been able to handle parts of society, which have included: A private partner, a tax economy, and a facade can be attributed to the development of a private partner. While there are conflicting opinions on the advantages of this trend, it was initially thought to result in greater wealth production. At least I have some doubts about it. My concern might be mentioned in this case because the manager and manager of the business mismanage their positions, their partners, or my careers soon after failure, as if nothing had happened, e.g. with the method of reassigning the poorer's assets to a new society but leaving behind debts. Mr. President. For example, the same person is creating dozens of companies, even dozens of companies, and he or she is running wild. Indeed, the bankruptcy of corporations can have natural explanations, and when it comes to deserving rulers and their owners, new opportunities can be opened up for management. The authorities must have authority to refuse or dissociate a partner, if their managers' business history or principal owners warrant such. It would be normal to trade partners with the swellings to allow the exchange managers to avoid straddle the property and rights of the farm, permanently to managers and major owners, or to associate with them in the situations listed above.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-24-24.u7	A respectable president. I want to talk about role models. Yesterday, one of my role models, a strong and courageous woman, was giving up on the equality struggle. Still, she knew that it was temporary, for today is the day of battle again. It's a women's strike. This friend of mine, like so many others, took part in the 2015 Beauty Tips-Red. Then she participated in #head in 2017 and #metoo. In all these revolutions, women have opened up to their most sensitive issues, stood vulnerable, and displayed amazing courage. That's what they've done over and over again. But as soon as they slip, such as. To speak up to those who defend their tormentors, they can get into the car of community talk. We have seen clear examples in these last days. Is it really hope that one woman after another will give up on the fight? Political subjects are often large and complex, but they are ours to solve. Recently we discussed a road program. We will spend 604 billion on the streets for the next 15 years. With a full revision of traffic law, a minister said that one of his aims was to eliminate fatal accidents. And there are 7 billion in climate operations for the next five years to ensure a safe environment for future generations. An important project may cost money, and it may be complex. Let us use the women's strike to examine ourselves and ask ourselves, " Has this repeated plea of women been handled effectively here at the council? ' As a community, have we faced the injuries and taken action? I'm afraid the answer is no. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. After the last election, we're too many men. To make up for this, we can imitate those women. We can show courage and change our community.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-24-24.u8	V.E.G. President. This day is remarkable in the history of women in Iceland and of all who have fought for the equality of the sexes. On October 24, 1975, I remember. It marked the beginning of many women, the beginning of equality, independence, and the courage to take the necessary steps in order to be more attentive to the voice of women. Forty - three years ago, some women first expressed their opinions on their own position and wished for changes. It was a big step at that time for them as individuals. Let us not forget that. On October 24, 1985, we celebrated women in the Parliaments all that day and until the evening at the Húsavík Community Home to commemorate the 10-year anniversary of the Women's Day. It was very crowded and enormously powerful. Studies were held, and women's rights were tamed. We took over the Viking newspaper, which was exclusively dedicated to women. We felt a sense of unity and sister love, and this actually began with more that reaches out for a meeting there today. The battle for women's rights has a much longer history, and we are grateful to the pioneers who cleared the way for the masses that followed. Many things have been accomplished at this time and so probably no one can remember or know that it has been different. However, the situation is also true that today we face an amazing attitude toward women and what is allowed in relations between sexes. Women's alienation is more extensive and subtle than we realize. It is always a subject, and it is totally unacceptable. In contrast with that attitude, women have set up armies all over the world. I believe it is very important that in raising our children, there is emphasis on equality, respect, and balance between sexes and between the sexes. [[The president calls.]] Happy birthday, everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-24-24.u9	Mr. President. Woman, you are the mother of an earth that the children of the earth have sucked out of all its vitality so that you will give nothing but a tiny pat on the cheek. - That's how I've sometimes felt and probably many other women throughout the years who have been in the place of all the mother, wife, care and service, at work, in social activities, in politics, and in the full range of threads so that everything can go as a shockless way to them. Today, in women's vacation day, women show cohesiveness and walk out of their places of work sooner and let their voices be heard, protesting sexual violence, sexual violence, harassment at work, sexual pay, low pay of care groups, discrimination in a job market, a family environment, and also protesting oppression and warfare against the poor women and their families in a war - torn world. In recent decades, women in Iceland have been led in the struggle for equality, and this struggle has resulted in great success. But better, if it's enough. Men and women need to make changes in society so that both sexes can enjoy themselves on an equal basis. Let's not change women, change society.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-24-24.u10	A respectable president. A general body is not a regular workplace. The General Assembly is a legislature. Here, elected representatives are to reflect the nation's cross-section. Even so, I am glad that I will be out of Congress today when women all over the country walk out of their working places at the end of the day. 1455 to take a woman's leave to show the sad fact that women's average income is 26% lower than men's average income. By dropping Congress today, we show that the General Assembly of Iceland does not operate without women. Even so, in 2018 alone, only 38% of Icelandic senators are women, and by the end of the 2016 election, most women have been elected by the General election ever. The setback that occurred in a number of women a year ago, but a tragic reminder that the fight for the equal rights of women and men is ongoing. Being a senator and a senator is a privilege. In spite of this, sex rights, sexual harassment, and sexual violence have been allowed to exist in the political arena, as in other areas of society. That's what the #methoo revolution showed us. Based on a more recent European Parliament study, sex rights, sexual harassment, and sexual violence are endemic in European Parliaments and members of Congress. Twenty-five percent of the women in the study reported that they had been sexually violent. Four percent of the senators were threatened with death, rape, or beating, and 68% reported sexual remarks related to their appearance and gender. Yes, although there are no ordinary workplaces, there are women's contempt and sexual violence in Icelandic politics, such as those of Icelandic women who wanted to get their own money in the field of politics, they carried along with the #methoo movement that started a year ago. Yet, we are Icelandic political women, with a good income, a voice that we can apply to ourselves, and an incomparable setting here to influence and change society's laws and regulations. [[The president calls.]] What, then, about all women who have fractions of our income but have no access to the power system or influence at all, are not safe at work or at home? [[The president calls.]] What is the reality of these women? Are they among those who rock Iceland as an equal paradise wherever they come? No. They're not safe in their homes. I suggest that we stop talking like this and eliminate the hospice of power driven by the inequities of the sexes. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-24-24.u11	Mr. President. I remember that on the day of women's vacation on October 24, 1975, when Mother and I took a bus from the Breinholt down to the city to join the revolution. My mother, a teacher for many years, explained that with this solidarity, women were setting the way for us as younger ones. That's right. All my life, I've been supported by my mother's fight and her generation. Later came the support of my generation's struggle. Now, it's all the fancy models from the younger ones. It's just like it's supposed to be. There's been a lot of work to be done in Iceland. In spite of all that stands ahead of us in matters of equality, our actions and effectiveness are viewed as an example. There are many examples of how we have proved to be fine examples and have encouraged others to fine works. There is also much to be done. Many issues remain unsolved, as we have seen, still many of the battles we will take and still others that we will win. More important, we need to be careful to consider that the results in this country are permanent. We have the responsibility to continue, to build on work, to sacrifice, and to win those battles that did not accept the situation, who refused to be told that it was natural laws, who always believed that things could be changed, and thus our community would be better for everyone. My daughters know the story of my town trip and my mother's grandmother 43 years ago. Then they have their memories from that day in the last decade or so. I hope they continue their tradition. And hopefully the future program will be primarily dedicated to joy, appreciation, and pride in what has been accomplished. Hopefully, the shadows of violence, discrimination, and silence will be gone forever. On this too we have responsibilities. - Happy birthday.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-24-24.u12	Mr. President. I'm so lucky to have two kids, and that girl and the kid who's twins. When my four - year - old daughter began to complain about books we read at night. They heard such phrases as: "Why are there only boys walking fast and climbing high? Why are girls never the strongest, and why doesn't Píla get to do all the work? These questions came from the heart. My son did not notice these things at first, but thanks to his sister, he began to think about the same things that were quite shocked. In sincerity and innocence, the children often see things around them that we older ones have learned to guide us, but of course we must not ignore the realities around us. Although the status of women rights is good in Iceland, we are far from achieving equality and equality. This may include: I see the unremarkable position of the women's class. The fact is, women's work is still less valued today. In addition, 70% less paid jobs and more likely to stay at home than men in maternity vacations, which are explained to a large extent by gap between maternity and prenatal school. Although this is a project on the local community, I believe it is important that the State take it with even greater weight and provide additional funding to solve the situation, thus improving the terms of the women and the people of all nations. Today's song says, with the permission of a president: And later the children say, "Look, Mom. It cleaned up. Yeah, later the kids say, "This is exactly the world I want. Honorable House of Congress. Remember, it's in our hands, it's the power to change this. I can and I want.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-24-24.u13	Mr. President. Today's human rights fight is especially a women's fight. Much has been accomplished, but much has not been achieved. We must never lose our sense of urgency, and we must never accept sex - pay, sexual steps in the commercial world, and sexual violence. When it comes to fundamental human rights, we must never accept compromise. We need to integrate gender motives into all government decisions, as well as private agents. 90% of the people who have money and control money in Iceland are men. 75% of the people in the management board of Icelandic enterprises are men and 80% of the country's managers are men. This needs to be changed. However, we must never expect these matters to resolve spontaneously or simply resolve over time. Mr. President. It's not enough Vigdís to become president. We need constant action. We need sexuality, as much pay, strong discussions, legal adjustments, and we need money in matters as we do in the lawsuits. We need to reevaluate the assessment of women's activities, whether in the teachers' class, in the welfare system, or simply in the low - income groups of women. We need a great deal of effort to combat violence. One of the priorities of the United States Congress right now is just to make sure that family and sexual abuse victims receive a pan-European campaign. We need constant prevention and instruction, and we need to improve our birth certificate, especially for those who are in school or out of work and we need to shorten our weeks of work. Mr. President. Let us complete this struggle with complete victory and complete equality in word and table.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-24-24.u14	A respectable president. The drug and addiction have taken some forms, but they're never as scary as they are now. By 2015, 15 people died from addiction, but the remaining contents of this year have reached less than 40. It is more painful than tears when you think that in 2018, more people die from addictions in the age range 18 to 40 than from all other diseases in Iceland combined that year. There are 600 addicts who ask for help and are on a waiting list on Vogi. It's very serious not to come to meet these people. It is at a point when the addict steppes outside the box and feels that he wants help and wants to be treated. But when he does, he's waiting. He's a patient, he's sick, and this will of him at this point goes far away. He can be dead, finally when it comes to him. That'll cost us 200 billion. Mr. K., a respectable president, to destroy the lists of Vogi. Instead of taking six people in daily, we can take eight. We're talking about 200 billion. K. It's okay to split up the budget, it's only 70 million. It's all right to put 500 million into bookmakers because we want to defend the Icelandic language and I don't recommend it to an assembly. But why not put our people in first place? Why not start setting priorities for the people in the country and for those who are in pain? I just say, nobody asks to get caught in the trap of dealing with an addiction, but the public has been throwing all responsibility and shutting down so completely as to see how serious the situation is more serious than tears. [[The president calls.]] I say, ladies, ladies and gentlemen, and all of us, happy today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-24-24.u15	V.E.G. President. October 24, 1975, was a new date. In memory, he may be the main memory of the nine children who from Kopavong took a trip down to the Lullar Square to stand with their generation there because she believed that there was something big going on, something new, the legal battle had finally come up. Since then, thank you so much. We have been through difficult discussions often during times, about the way women have been oppressed and abused, both sexually violent and threats, sexual violence, etc. We've dealt with it, including Here at the council, we have a special barbershop convention, where we tried to look into and analyze them and see how we could get on with the same fight. However, in the middle of this discussion of how far we have been doing this, I cannot deny that during the past few weeks, I have been embarrassed because two courageous women reported violence at their place of work, personal or other forms of violence in the founding industry where others worked. Both of these women were paid the price by losing their job. The violent men? Yes, one of them got a gold handshake and took a retirement deal away. But the two women still have to stay without work. The saddest thing in this case is that both companies are public companies, if we can put it that way. [[The president calls.]] It must be a reminder to us here, perhaps influenced by how public companies are fired, that we take up the affairs of these women so that they gain justice. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-24-24.u16	V.E.G. President. As 43 years have passed since the first day of women's vacation, we look back and see that much has been accomplished. Schools are common, and maternity is at hand. Páll Pétursson, a former minister, and other good people struggled to change their maternity. Thus, in the year 2000, the right of fathers and mothers was equal to the right of children. This stage was and is very important, but it is necessary to do better. In the country, equality is legal, and the requirement for equal wages is self - determination. It can be said that a law on equality is quite good and that it has a measure of confidence. However, it is not enough for the Council to establish a law. Farmers, individuals, and businesses must do their part. It has always been a matter of equal rights to those who make progress in life, and it has been a part of many progresses that have been staged. The social rights programmes of the class highlight the equal participation of men and women in the activities of the party, and within it is a powerful female movement that has worked hard to encourage women to step forward and act. In 1949, for example, Rannveig the Þorsteinsdóttir of Grafstein was the first of women at a meeting for the forward party. Her fight was the legal standing of women, tax issues, and housing matters. She tirelessly encouraged women to work in social and national matters. As an individual, she felt zealous and shaken, and truly she was far ahead of her time. V.E.G. President. Today's headline is: "Let's not change women, let's change our society. " Let's thank you for such individuals as Rannveig, Bríet, Ingibjörg, Gústa, and anyone who has run the path. In spite of all of this, pay differences are a fact, a fact that we cannot accept, for all of us must wish that our sons and daughters are equal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-24-24.u17	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for interviewing here at the Assembly Hall of industry and other professions, work, and technical education. I don't think most people realize how serious the situation is. This is not a problem for the future. Rather, it is a real problem that we face today. In my opinion, we need to respond properly. Too long and too often these study articles have been discussed, but they must say, as it is, that they have probably been empty. It's nice to mention this in a campaign, and everyone often seems to agree that something needs to be done but to improve real industrial and technical education has, unfortunately, become a phrase that has not been followed by actions. Iceland is highly dependent on an excellent education system, and this debate has been taken too often without real changes. Education and man - made education are the fundamental sources of good biographers. Despite its success in various fields, the challenges in education are large, important, and serious. The lack of industrialized people is vast. For example, at an 80% member of the Industrial Association, industrial workers are lacking. The demand for baseline workers in industrial and industrial fields has increased with each year and while industry produces only a quarter of the national production record of 16% new ones studying in industry and to-dos while 70% is enrolled in the study for a student's study. Despite increased need, even though the percentage of new students has increased, there are too few new ones in the field. Business life progresses rapidly, and this development will continue. The education system and its emphasis must not be left behind. Despite the digital revolution and further revolution of future activities, the need for industrial and technical professionals remains high. Some of the changes will be accomplished, but there will always be a need for skill, knowledge, and other factors but traditional literature. The farmer will not be relieved of his duty with robots, but he will have to change to the rhythm of his time. So I want to ask the highest. Minister of the simple question whether it is really ready to perform the job, industry, technology and engineering as far under the head as the student's test. Similarly, the study must develop to the rhythm of time. From the student's point of view, it is more likely today to select book studies beyond industry because of systematic discrimination on the track, because of uncertainty about contracts for experience, and therefore remain unsure about graduations from school. In Iceland it will simply be a good option for students to go to this study and, as well, that students have more ways to move after school than they do today. A respectable president. The system problem is widespread. It is unacceptable that students who enroll in school may not be sure to graduate despite their hard work. This depends on the possibility of having a contract class outside of school for 56 weeks. It is a perfect precept for students who start studying to know that they have a chance to graduate from the same school. This insecurity is disturbing and, of course, makes study less desirable. The biggest challenge is to increase the number of students in the basic education of these articles. It should also be noted that those who choose this route have the potential for increasing education and are not restricted. To increase the number of colleges with a different background, such as industry and technology, will be valuable to society as a whole. I've provided a bill for a change in government and university law, with the aim of making it clear in the law that industry, work, and training will be done as high as accounting. It opens the doors of students from trade to university. There are too many cases where students who want to expand their education do not get into college. An example of an industrialist who owns his own company and wants to improve his knowledge of business or accounting, or who has become a master of his trade, has completed his trade, has had contract time, has been tested for master's school, and has received master's rights. Still, they're not according to the system to further educate themselves, since they haven't finished a student's test. In elementary school we also have a problem. In this regard, the arts and projects are not being properly cared for, despite any clear and improved law on minimum targets. We will not teach these articles on the book any more than we can teach the children to swim with the book. High school does so many people so badly that, for example, they do it. Don't respect 80% of the elementary school in Reykjavík for this reference in 5,1.7. Class. How should we increase our interest in things that children simply do not know? [[The president calls.]] To promote industry, work, and research in the interests of strong and diverse communities that are able to cope with new challenges, to take major steps to change the system's priorities and to make industrial education as high as possible under the head and book school, both in legislation and in actuality, is an important step towards improving progress and prosperity. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The career life progresses rapidly and the education system must not remain behind.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-24-24.u18	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A member of the council for this special discussion. The career, industry, and professional education is one of my priorities as minister of education. In the government covenant, education has likely never been so much discussed in the past. Hv. A senator well knows that there we specifically mention that it should promote industry, work and practice in the interest of diverse and powerful communities and increased technology, which will make the Icelandic community more competitive at the international level. The objective is clear: We're going to increase the number of students in industry, to-do and to-do and to-do with each other's quality around the study. Here I shall give seven things that have already been accomplished. First, 224 million is expected. K. increase to the high school stage, and special emphasis is laid on improving the school status of occupational, industry and to-do. We already have. Second, contributions have been made to improve the teaching program for training and training. This was recently used for students in metal branches and mechanical training at the East High School of Education. We will also place funds on improving the allocations at the Breiðholti and Cityhols School in the United States. Third, we want students in all parts of the country to have access to a wide range of education, as well as a book study that meets the requirements of the next school and professional life. In this context, we decomposed material fees in high school, which in the past made it necessary for students to pay higher school fees. This was a donation of 300 million. K. Fourth, we have stressed the importance of simplifying and promoting the management of industry and education. The Department's staff is designed to offer proposals to simplify the staff management structure so that the environment of staff is more flexible and maintained. Fifth, I would like to mention the production and introduction of an electronic CV, but the aim of this project is to improve the quality of training by forming a social network of students, workplaces, schools, and others who are involved in working out the defined skills of the profession to which the student learns. At the same time, there will be a clearer role of school and workplace work ethic. sixth, we are reevaluating and strengthening the work of a workforce. Over the past few years, governments have paid $1.1 billion. to companies responsible for the teaching of industry and occupational students at work. This is a major work that has benefited students and companies in increasing numbers. In progress, assessment of the workplace fund has the goal of doing better. Seven, the Ministry has supported a wide range of projects that all aim to increase the number of students in education. These include presentation and action projects such as GERT, Box, Work, Women's Work.is, Microbit, and Europe's Process and Industrial Convention. For fun, Ásbjörbjörðursson was given a Eðvaldsson Ásbjörn in that contest, and it is a joy to see how much ambition is put into it throughout the system to promote these articles. Clearly, it is our job to increase the number of students in industry, to-do and to-do and work-explanatory studies and to strengthen all the applications around the study. This, of course, requires active cooperation between industry and the educational system. Therefore, I welcome the initiative shown by the industrial organization by molding ambitious educational policies aimed at promoting these articles. Of course, we are very happy that men are taking this initiative and will follow through on it. There is evidence that our actions are already working. The number of students enrolled in high school training courses has increased substantially and in some articles about 33%. In other projects, for example, in the High School of Technology, there has been a 59% increase in plumbing applications and a 61% increase in metal branches. It's a very pleasant development, and I think that any body of Congress can be happy that we're here seeing real action, real success. There are minds in people, and I find it during my visits at school that these measures and government priorities in the building up of projects, industry and occupations are very important.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-24-24.u19	A respectable president. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir's daughter, for bringing this problem to the attention. The percentage of high school students is like a rough one. A senator mentions, utterly unacceptable, and so has he been for many years. This proportion is very possible in spite of the regular commitments of those in authority. And comparable numbers in our neighboring countries are quite different. We often talk about how strangely high the emphasis is on book study here in Iceland, and we also worry about how difficult it is for many students to find themselves in this study everything, how much they are bored, and how far this book study is real and interesting and young people, who are supposed to be so much fun and full of new discoveries and stories, all too often characterized by dome and lead. People who use their brains and hands that especially identify man and are so beautiful to him do not seem to enjoy the same respect that people only use the brain, and at times they have the highest respect for people who use neither. A minister offers various ways to enhance the variety of learning options for young people in this country. Of course, we hope that such efforts will lead to success. However, I would like to mention that there is something that needs to arise here that is out of the reach of the government, and that is a change of mind among the people of the country to industrial education. It must be lifted up in the minds of the people, not as a means of emergency for those who cannot learn, as it is called, but just as an advantage for those who can learn, but perhaps not learn from a book.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-24-24.u20	Mr. President. First, I want to thank you for the talk that is being arranged for today. It's very important. First, I'd like to draw attention to the fact that in 2025, 20% of primary students are pursuing an education in 2025 and 30 percent are being pursued by the industrial educational community. It's a big goal, but it's necessary. In order to improve the way of art, technology, and engineering, which we can put under the hat of industry in elementary schools, I would especially like to mention this point where I believe we should be expected to pursue industrial education as early as the first few days of school. I also refer to the nursery class as my first class. Our policy in the Central category strategies the importance of a trade education with special earmarked funds in cooperation with the job life, and it is well - thought that these funds and cooperation will benefit from all levels of education. We have to think of industry as a serious education. We need to take selectives as juvenile subject articles seriously and as industrial branches in a larger context. It is known that the invitation to a professional name is based on the way the guides are provided. That's what needs to be changed. And because we're here on this day, I'd like to mention that we're going to be with all the opportunities to get more boys, men, to study traditional women, and so many more girls, women, to attend studies in traditional male traditions that are often developed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-24-24.u21	Mr. President. I'm going to remember the day first. May he be an encouragement to all of us. To the matter. We should have enough traders in this country, despite the evacuation of the past few years, and it is clear that the appeal of industrial education has not been enough. There are many reasons. I'm not going to analyze them, but I'm going to list something and something else that I think will be amongst the things needed to increase attendance. First, it is a modest amount of study. There's a variety of shoes, I'm not talking about schools, I'm talking shoes, where there's shoes, e.g. no gender differences. It is a professionally coordinated subject and training under the direction of a full - time industrial master. It is the trust of professional knowledge that comes from the study, the harmony of knowledge within articles. It is a law of industry, rights, and increased education possible. It's an exciting innovation. Professionalism is under surveillance to expect what is going to happen through corporations, institutions, or even some kind of craft or industry. The question is, How has this been accomplished? I've been watching since a private development of industry began in 2008. It presents a specific underlying tone that we can call on as a shortcut to study, a limited training in the workplace under the insufficient guidance of those called industrialists, no matter what they may be, and then there are ideas about discontinuation from the legalization of important jobs. We can look to other countries that have gone this way and considered experience, and we can examine what has happened to professional knowledge and how our lack of care has been shown, for really there is experience with Icelandic traders over the years. I'm going to encourage the senators to review a report on high school education and planning and education and to encourage a minister to cling to a single word throughout his career, and that is professional knowledge. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-24-24.u22	A respectable president. In these matters, we need to look to the past as well as the future. At the last assembly, the General looked forward to the very future when it adopted a synonym's resolution of access to digital carpenters, which is actually accomplished in the future, the future of the fourth industrial revolution. In fact, the General went far beyond what I was afraid to hope to do in the first place, since I merely assumed that there was a high school access, but the General Assembly expanded it to the elementary school stage as well as, of course, to everyone else, as the basic ideas on digital techniques go on. Little steps were made there very large, and I eagerly look forward to seeing the future of this body of Congress appearing in the next financial program. But it must also look to the past. Other nations have gone through a situation similar to that of us today. You can, for example, do so. look to Find who took up a learning policy 40 years ago to do the best they could. Finds founded two school lines, as it were, in general, where there is a traditional book study and then on its side, and just as high a school level is set on the foreman, or ◯applied science to explain in a larger context what they did in Finland. In recent decades, something remarkable has been done in this regard. True, they encounter certain obstacles that we may learn from and may do better if we go in a similar direction, but I certainly believe that we need to learn from what Finns set up 40 years ago, what experience and what lessons they have learned from this journey in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-24-24.u23	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir daughter for the discussion and at the same time congratulate women warmly on her day. Then I'm going to go to some middle school boys. The situation is that boys have had very difficult top school, and in themselves, nothing better has been done in the trade. I have six boys, and I know what's best for them. There's one thing that's very ongoing, and it's a computer study. Today, though, you do not go to school exclusively. Middle school should be such that a choice could be made, e.g. A program path and only learn it or control it, but you're not gonna get away with it. When I was in a trade school, studying the wood industry, I was taught Danish from a industry book in Denmark before a university student named Dani. The teacher who was to teach the Danish book could not know any other word, since they were so technical. This was the most meaningless study I've ever learned, to try to learn these Danish, and had nothing to do with what I was learning. That's why I say we have to think about the future. We're getting a robot. If some young boy wants to be an expert on robots, why can't he learn? Why are we pushing him into something else? We need to simplify things so that everyone can choose and find what they want, what they are best at, but not always put everyone in the same box and say that everyone has to learn the same lesson in order to get to the right destination.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-24-24.u24	Mr. President. The subject is at least 100 years of age in Iceland, and with the permission of a president, I would like to quote the publication Industrial School for a century discussing the year 1904, which was the first year of the fine school: However, while the school director's interest in increasing technical training was not due to the lack of interest among champions and authorities. Later, says: ▪ The view of academic school to a Danish role model like Jón Þorláksson did not want it to be realized. The same publication also says about 1909 C.E., with the permission of a president: ▪ A large number of industry programs, which a student completed a child's test in, was not limited to school, but by the potential for a professional master to study. Something sounds familiar. Finally, I would like to quote the literature of the Institute of Education about 1918, a textbook. It says: In trade, at sea, at sea, at public schools, at farmers' schools, at shopping schools, and at the school of teachers, a serious or professional study was available. At that time, housewives were in several schools. The few youths who had the opportunity to pursue education went to the University of High School in Reykjavík, where they spent six years there. In this century, those in the other schools, known as the National Institute of Education, did not pursue education. Only those who went to MR were educated. Is that how things have changed? Job study is conducted less than any other study. Students themselves are responsible for getting a substantial portion of the study by obtaining a master's contract. This system needs to be reassigned in a radical way. Students need to be confident that they can start studying and that they will finish at the appointed time. The master system in the present form is walking to the skin. [[The president calls.]] Step - by - step study is needed. A multicenter study needs to be offered, and a review from the foundation of a legal industry is needed. If we do not do these things, we will probably have 100 years later or our successors present the same talks about the same problems and offer the same solutions as nothing happens. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-24-24.u25	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Slagful Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir's daughter, and the highest. Secretary of education for this need for this discussion. It's certainly an offer for industrial education in Iceland today. Here, in the capital area, it is the biggest, the largest, and so on in Akureyri, less in the country. The problems we face include: attitudes toward industry and the high costs of industry and engineering in the education system. Thus, there is no natural and general advantage in high school, which is shocking. Views of industry and engineering have not been positive for years and need to be adjusted. All too many students are more likely to take student exams and go to academic college. It's not a book-of-the-wall education that would be suitable or that of all those who choose that way, individuals with graphic thinking and ability to create hands and minds, which we really needed in various fields of industry and engineering. A school program that is open for students in the local community may be used as a basis for study. Thus, it is vital that all secondary schools be able to offer opportunities for industrial education. I believe it is very important that the school and the job life work together to provide more support for industry and work education in Iceland to make it interesting and interesting. At one point, industrial education was offered at most of the current high school of the country, as it were earlier, and then in cooperation with traders and champions locally. Such an arrangement, or in some form, in harmony with our community and modern culture, could provide a prerogative for the study and could increase interest in young people if available in their area, at least in pre- study phase. It may also be a source of strength to work in a single position and their determination to gain a good investment and may increase the possibility of a wide range of activities, whether by electrical activation, hairdress, plumbing, or whatever the desire may be. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-24-24.u26	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir An Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigurb bear daughter, for bringing this important matter to the program. As noted earlier, when we are in desperate need of a trader, we often discuss the importance of industry and other such, and most of us are known in our own skin. It is good to hear the history of the minister that here the Minister highlights the work, occupational, technical research and then follows through various and varied measures in various directions. I'd like to mention only that the advance Party has produced ambitious academicism. The development of professional colleges has been established. It even says, by permission of the president: ▪ This opens new ways for educated people to add to that education at a university. This trend supports the growth of industrial education in high school, opening up opportunities for those who choose to study industrially. At the same time, the need for employment is becoming more and more experienced and highly qualified staff, and new ways of learning must be developed to the rhythms of professional needs. Of course, college isn't for everyone, and it's a good thing. But it is important that no doors be closed there for those attending a trade or to-do. I'd like to know what the situation on this matter is, if it's being handled. It's like the highest. I have attended the East High School of Education in Ness shop and have participated in the technological day that is held there each year. I've been there with young people, and I've seen how ideas come to their minds, and I've seen things that they just didn't know existed. That is why introductions and emphasis are made on them, that we keep open the way for young ones between school stages, very important, but they are not simple. It's expensive. It takes effort, time, and money to maintain it, but I think this may be one of the factors in opening the way between people's eyes to the possibilities available.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-24-24.u27	Mr. President. I would like to start by saying thank you very much for this important discussion. Industrial education in Iceland is under attack and is considered a lower level of literature. This is shown in a 2005 Social Science survey. It showed that only 6% of high school students born in 1975 had completed their trade, at 50%, of which had completed their book study. This return came from the previous report of the same institution. At the 35th Council of Iceland's Internity Association, industrial education in the high school system was particularly focused. The 35th Council of the Indian Union was held in November 1977, or 13 years before the incident. The apocalyptic was born. The setting needs to increase the focus of research in industry, work, and technology at government politics as far back as I think the oldest humans will and will not change, but there is still a endemic error in the industry. I'm sure we'll be standing in place if we don't just go backwards, as far as our industry is concerned. We seem to be trapped in some fully integrated government education proclaimed by one of the world's agencies. Let all go into the same place whether it be convenient or not. It seems that a bookable student's test is what pleases the state, and that's where we're somehow trapped. I think we need to start earlier. I think we need to start long before we start high school. I think we're going to have to make a significant increase in a high school presentation and even play schools, where our children spend the first 15 to 6 months of their lives. It seems that we are trapped in one way, in a box. I want to challenge the highest. Education minister looking there for changes and progress.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-24-24.u28	V.E.G. President. English language abounds with words that speak in such short terms. That's two words I'm thinking about today. They have become creative and intelligent. In addition, we have also learned literature and have long claimed that it would not be in the asparagus. It is as if we have spent the entire 20th century prove that the writing would not be ignored. That is why we have virtually forced people to take a similar course in education. That's why I'm celebrating this discussion and thanking the advocate. Thank you very much. Minister for what was presented in her case on what was being done. I think that as long as we've talked about these cases, the politicians, year after year, people are falling out of the school system, many for irreparable harm, because they have not been studied properly. Thus, study has not been properly introduced. I agree with those who say, "You need to start earlier with young people the opportunities of trade education. " They need to be supportive of good efforts, such as A joint work between the Aarhus and Hellishe activation has been carried out in New York City. We need to introduce to young people what it is really rewarding, including financially, to be a trader. Because over the past few years, we have seen that a trader's life is otherwise higher than that of a long-schooler. A big point, though, is not the main point. The important thing is that people get to feed their skills, that they get to feed their senses. They'll feed their wits and develop. Because it is also the basis for this society to rise up properly and become self-sustained in handwork. I think we could look to neighboring countries, I can think of both Denmark and Germany, seeing how it's been so different from what it's done for decades and even hundreds of people we've done. We're supposed to be exemplary, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-24-24.u29	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the advert, please. paritaprevir Assured Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, for a discussion of very important matters. In fact, I discussed this matter last week, and it was particularly about the importance of improving the image of industry and the need to change society's attitude toward it. I'd like to reiterate it and remind you that we don't need another temporary effort. We need to let our actions speak. I'd like to state that I've been teaching for 15 years in high school. The public needs to be informed that there are various possibilities for further education for industrialized persons, but we also need to break educational walls regarding the availability of industrial education to further education. Why does a boy in a building who will learn construction technology have to add a student's test to his entrance? But the student who has no study or experience in the construction and activities of the workers has a valid access to his student's study? Why is it so easy for us to say that the boy, of course, needs to add to the various responsibilities at the same time and that we do not think about saying that the student needs to grow in knowledge of the trade? It's kind of crazy when we really need industrial and technical people. As noted, one of the best ways to promote industrial education is to begin the journey at previous school. Students who are still in high school choose ways for study. If we want to promote industrial and technical studies, we need to increase their focus on subjects in elementary schools. Sadly, more often than not, the number of lessons in these articles is minimal according to high school guidelines. If a student knows little or nothing about what it is, he will never have an opportunity to see if it really appeals to him? Finally, I'd like to direct you to the wonderful cooperation of the East School of Education and the Far Away, where the 9th graders from the Far East are getting a weekly presentation in every industry taught in the engineering schools. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-24-24.u30	A respectable president. More to the past and to the future. Two decades ago, the Dutch set a twice as large an estimate of half the resources. Since 2000 water use in agriculture has been reduced by 90%. Insectists have been nearly eliminated in greenhouses, and antibiotic use has been reduced by 60%. The Netherlands is one of the largest food exports in the United States, although it is 270 times less than the United States. This small country, Holland, is another of the world's largest food exports because they took that policy 20 years ago. The reason there was the government's emphasis and support for agricultural education as well as for this work. As you can see, the results are immediate. It's in the past, but it's something we can learn from. But the future is there, too, in the council arrangement that stands before the council, and it's carnivorous, so I name it on every occasion. It's an old technology that's taking a firm foothold, and the sooner we get that foothold, the better for so many things, for antibiotic use, for the environment, for the climate. That technology offers an inexhaustible chance of feeding mankind if it is gone. It is not simply the cultivating of animals for food but the cultivating of meat. It doesn't take all the chicken for chicken fleas, just one cell. These are ideas about how the Council must look to the future with regard to a particular contractor, a particular idea, as the Finns did, or a appliized so that I try to be accurate, for what those words mean accurately when translated from one language to another can be misunderstood. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-24-24.u31	Mr. President. I thank the advocate and minister for discussing this very important matters and thus giving us the opportunity to participate in the discussion of how we can promote industrial education. The Government Treaty contains plans to promote industry, work and work in the interests of powerful communities and to deal with the changes to society ahead of work markets. How can trade be promoted? A simple organization needs to study and increase the availability and availability of young people for work and employment, making them more desirable. Walking in this course is a challenge. I can say the word, too. paritaprevir Jón Steindór's Valdimarsson said that the industrial system had skin contact and had to be reviewed. The access to industrial education must be equal to good across the country, so national schools need to be funded. It is a very difficult place where industrial education, e.g., is more expensive. Because of housing, teaching, and equipment, and those in school may not have the same motivation to offer such studies. That's right, isn't it? paritaprevir In his talk, Arna Alena Sigurbjörnsdóttir, mentioned that children must know the parts in order to eventually choose to study trade. They have to know and recognize the possibility. This may be part of the retreat. And this may be the possibility to prevent the fall, to point out those children who do not find themselves in the schools this way and open the way and make it easier for them. Don't you also need to invite your kids to make more money and to do more with basics? In these matters, a lot plays in. The book study is the way most people dream of going, even if their skills are everywhere else. They need to make their industry as high as the book study.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-24-24.u32	Mr. President. Many of the 17th June talks have been held to promote industrial and occupational studies. I'd like to allow myself to state that no matter where it comes down, no matter what group, everyone wants to do it. When Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, was a minister of education, she even promoted it. The workforce fund and started with the study and employment counseling. Illugi Gunnarsson further developed the connection between school and employment, and it seems to me to be the best. Ministers are of great interest and of a fine way. A lot of good things have been said here in my opinion, but I want to set priorities for three things: financial resources follow each time. We know that the system does not necessarily support Ministers every time in how to assign funds. It must be ensured that, for example... you are applying in the plumbing laws - there is more applications - you are not rejecting applications because funding do not follow into school. We need to make sure of this. The staff needs to be reorganized. It's about time. In my opinion, they're way too conservative and it's a big misunderstanding if you think they'll support the necessary changes we need to take part in industrial and professional studies. You have to jump up, it's well meant, and it's extremely important. The student's test. In my opinion, we need to think about what I thought was wrong. paritaprevir Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir coming in, what I have, including, Also, it was suggested that we should consider whether or not everyone should just get a white head, whether everyone will just get a student's test. I have a student test of nature. Then there could be a student's test of a plumbing track, a master building, or an electrician track. I think this is part of changing attitudes. I think it's a pleasure to sit in the councilroom and hear one of the senators after another talking here about how we're going to promote industrial education. We are to do everything to support the government, support the Ministry of Education to do this, support the schools, and support the work. [[The president calls.]] We need to open the system. We need to make demands, but we need to open the system because we can do better, and we're supposed to use the solidarity we're here to witness today to promote industrial education.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-24-24.u33	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking everybody. Congress members for having a part in this discussion. It was really fun to listen to the good views presented here. Thank you very much. Minister for the perspective she gave us. I know and hear that there's a lot of improvement in the will, and that's how it is in the whole system. It is a great ambition to make changes. Of course, the situation has been similar for years, as we have seen, or perhaps a little better recently, but that is not enough. Systemic problems are one thing, but then there is a fantasizing other. That is what we must also look at, and we must not forget in all the changes on the system that radical actions change the image problem because it is usually characterized by ignorance. It's possibly the root cause of the problem. Staff advice is far from adequate. Children can mention four or six possibilities regarding studies that they cannot pursue, which is not a book study. How many possibilities are there? There are 100 ways to choose after primary education in industrial, technical and industrial fields. Kids can name four to six. The knowledge of the possibility is not available. It seems that going to be less difficult, too, is heard by parents, by people in the community. We can take as an example the cousins who had a graduation party, one was to graduate as an electrician, and the other was to graduate as a student from a book study. Three times at the graduation party, the guy who graduated as an electrician: Well, when are you going to finish the student's test? That's the attitude. It is an image problem that we need to repair because the problem lies largely at the root of it. I'd like to encourage the highest. Minister to all good works. She can rely on a lot of support from here, and it seems to me, in fact, who from around the council. We should talk more about education in this room.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-24-24.u34	A respectable president. It has to be said at the moment that this is a particularly good discussion. Intruders. Senators are really good, and I'm going to go over some of them. I agree, of course, that it's very urgent to make a trade education as high as we're talking about how we're going to do it. I can tell you what. There's a senator who says we're working at the Ministry how we can do that. One of the things we will see as we examine and compare parts of the country and compare one country to another is to develop in the Far East about 33% of those who complete the basic school in industry. It's something important. As we look at informal situations that are being done differently, let me mention some of the factors that have developed. First, high school and high school are closely cooperated, and the basic school is trying to ensure the greatest choice and commitment. That's my name, number one. Second, there is great cooperation between high school and professional life. The job life plays an active part in and substantially strengthens the trade, occupational or occupational education that is taking place in high school or high school. Third, the basic school allows parents to become very familiar with what is available, and the elementary school even goes all over to introduce and increase knowledge of industry. Fourth, it is very much presented to parents as to the options that follow. If all of this goes together, it can be achieved, too within the country, very effective. One of the things I'm trying to do as a minister is to take this good experience, to form as in a remote area - it's also elsewhere, but I specifically mention it - and implement it on a national level. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-24-24.u35	It is appropriate for the president, now that the clock is just over five minutes short for three, to reiterate the note and take a request for the ladies for the day and send them a contingency from here by the President's chair.
