ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u1	Borist has a letter from Þórdís Kolbrún brownu Gylfadóttir Gordydóttir that she can't do Congress in the near future. So today, at the General Assembly 1, a deputy of the National Independence Party is taking up residence in the Northwestern District, Totto Björn Einarsson. He has previously taken his place at the General Assembly and is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u2	Mr. President. It is of sufficient importance to take up improved farm conditions in the region, but in modern times it is so that good network connections, slow transport, and secure electrical safety are basic conditions for making zones attractive to living. The external safety of electricity varies greatly between land areas and energy companies, both state and private, taking advantage of both pressure methods on individuals and rural governments. The land in which there is poor safety is said to have sufficient electricity to be activated within the regions, to determine whether or not land areas that are unmoved by such structures are needed or not. Thus, rural communities will sell their natural resources for access to electricity, nature, which in many cases attract tourists who return money to the State. This approach is at best questionable. I remind you, Mr President, we are one nation in one country, and it is the government to provide all the people with the same basic services. It is a administrative decision what to do with the electricity produced in the country. Today, you are making enough electricity to drive a flea dive and a pair of washing machines in Scrotums and windows on the West. The problem is how difficult it is to carry the electricity and make sure it is there when it needs to be done, and it wants to be killed by hip machine and hot tubs at the worst of 60 hotel places, but when it comes to this, the state companies point at one another. I was at a meeting with Raiks' executives at the end of August, and in their case, it was said that it was part of the local government that pressured the politicians to make Mr. Raiks's interest payments go into the structure and renew the distribution system. It would also be for them to pressure on the increase in agricultural interest and pressure the political force to tighten the Landsnet in the construction of the distribution system. Why do you need to be pressing on this somewhere in the back, three partly or entirely a member of the state, all with similar projects, the same basic goals. Once again, we are one nation in one country. So I encourage a body of Congress to give serious consideration to its role in ensuring all the inhabitants of this country a comparable basic service. People need to be protected from feeling obliged to trade their land for the same living conditions and to find themselves elsewhere in the same country as to make decisions for the implementation of the fortresses from a broader point of view than the electrical distribution system. This urgent need for improvement will be an excessive amount of room for decision-making at the expense of other factors. Similarly, local authorities need to be spared the humiliation of each opportunity to use their neighbors'eyes to try to demonstrate the need to get first for a service that today should not have to fight for. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u3	Mr. President. It has been the attitude of the left movement ◯ Green offering for years that when it comes to public service, health care, education, and other matters, the state should not negotiate for those who are behind the company or corporate or corporate funds. This does not mean that the left green is against the private management of health care, is against the private operating of the educational system. Not at all. However, we would like to be clear about the fact that such services are not being used with limited tax dollars. Hv. I'm sure Congress has ever heard the term "gain" protagonist in this regard and a very large proportion of the health services in Iceland are actually such companies. Left greens believe that if you want to serve in a health service in Iceland, they have to realize that there is a serious market problem in selling health care because the position of buyers and sealers is always very uneven. The buyer is usually in no position to say that he needs or does not need some special service because the minister is always in a position to give priority to the buyer. Therefore, it is much easier to think about things in a way that if you make some effort or gain from such companies, if you use it in the company to improve your services, improve your company's interests, improve your employee's salary, increase the number of those who receive the services. Left greens have now introduced a bill at the General Assembly in which a minister is expected to be authorized to set as conditions for health care negotiations not to make a profit - making effort in the companies. The left green will keep this very high in the winter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u4	A respectable president. I just got back from my first circuit trip on behalf of the council, from the Department of Health at the Northland Council of Nuuk, Greenland. I ask myself, after this journey, what does it bring, and for what purpose it has been gone. I admire the Greenlandites who live there on this rock that carries ice on top and with incredible persistence have lived in that place. But I have to make a note that I'm staying at the most expensive hotel I've ever spent in my life. It's more than twice as expensive than any luxury hotel I've ever been to. Yet, it was not expensive in comparison. I ask myself, " Why were ten members, seven members and assistants being sent to this conference, which was merely to accept any previously formed conclusions or to try to make some changes in word? ' I say, Guð God, it was between 20 and 30 opinions that were passed through, but behind those figures there were about 250 pages. I'm asking, why are we doing this? I'm also asking, if I'm paying more than half as much expensive hotels as I need to be, and we're paying twice as much for the Þinglava and the festival that would have to be: Is this going on at the council? Don't we need to start rethinking things? At the same time, one news item shows that children do not get a service because their palate needs fixing, their teeth need to be fixed. At the same time, we're putting in the budget of hunger lice, a 1% increase in personality discount extra, 500 bucks. It is shown that 1% decrease in 37% of stair tax returned 14 billion for the personal discount, resulting in a minimum of 15,000 dollars. a month, but not a 500K. I just want to know if we're going to take it together if all of these overseas trips and the expense around them are necessary. [[The president calls.]] We're supposed to dive into this. Finally, I'd like to say, "It was a predatory trip, but what's most strange to her, and it's probably going to be the most remembered memory of all, " and all that's probably out there is a predatory sore throats and colds.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u5	Mr. President. In the end of the council, I intend to discuss the activities of the council. I'm gonna start with that, even. has been discussed in the Presidency Committee, and is now being discussed in the media, with regard to the combined costs at the Parliament meeting. It reveals, as has been published publicly on the website, that the platforms and corridors, materials, and work cost 40 billion. [[Foreground on "Million"?]] No, not billions, then it'd be a total elephant shoe, then it'd be first. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Then there would be something to cry out to, "You could have spent your money so well." No. The account was then 22 million - more than anything. There was a discussion on this on the committee, and I'm sure they'll be publicizing it. Pirats and I wanted it, and I've sent the trajectory e-mail to the President, and refer to my wish under the program, to get General agreements in connection with that meeting with the members who conducted these things. Then we may be able to begin to understand why things went so far ahead. It was not clear in the contracts what to do, etc.? Then there are 40 million of these platforms - it was mentioned in committee discussions that they may not be anything we have and can use again. However, they can be reused, but there is someone who can rent them to others. Let's get all this up on the table. Maybe it's all in the right shape and best of things except to miscalculation such a tremendous cost, something must be fixed there at least. I requested a legal hearing at the summer session of the Presidency Committee in August regarding another aspect related to the Þingalval meeting. I requested a legal opinion as to whether non-continental members, elected by the nation, the President and the Icelandic Ministers may address the General Assembly. Allegers'committees had said so. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví's Gunnarsson to change the constitution so that he could get his case approved that the public could come in here from time to time, random, and address us. The point was to get ordinary people in here to tell us that we may need to look beyond the box. There is a danger in all organizational works that people may be trapped in their sphere. Hv. paritaprevir When Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson was told that the Constitution had to be changed, then on the day, it does not have to be changed. A legal sheet from the General Assembly office, now published and published by the president, says it may be. In case of a moment. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson presents such a matter, if it is possible for the Council to let the people in here discuss the matter. Not to be part of the Senate work, but to address a meeting is permitted according to the Constitution. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u6	A respectable president. I've committed a political sin. I've changed my mind. Regular discussion with regard to insurance. Valuable insurance is a heat problem in many areas of the community. I have personally held more than two speeches that although it is not necessarily a positive phenomenon it is a necessity, the only way to make financial long-term bonds possible along an Icelandic crown with no hair wax. I have also mentioned that consumers can choose loans that are suitable for themselves and their circumstances. Two opposing values conflict there, i.e. consumer freedom and consumer protection. I believe both of them, but as I have said before, they sometimes conflict. Although I'm not basically against all the insurance and I think it's something like that. I have come to the conclusion of long-term savings, after countless conversations and spractlers, especially to people taking mortgages, that it is undesirable to find out that mortgage loans are inexplicable, especially so-called prices equal payment loans, which is overwhelmingly the most popular mortgage in Iceland. I mention in the process that I don't think it's the same loan, but more on that later. Their consumer protection is, in my opinion, completely impossible. It is simply too complicated to expect the public consumers to realize what they are doing in the future when they take those loans. They're not only complicated, they're also amazing. And the dangers to be warned by the consumer are too Šesotian to make such a requirement for a public consumer. In addition, I have been more convinced of the particular negative effects of the price - assured housing bar on the entire economy regardless of the consumer's viewpoint. But I'd like to think that the evidence I've been able to provide for the need to offer a secure mortgage along the Icelandic crown is still a good argument. However, the argument has grown strong in my mind, causing me to be disturbed by my former equilibrium of convictions. As you may hear, this speech will not be very good at this brief period, but I look forward to an opportunity to discuss the subject further with the various members of Congress that discuss insurance at this council. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u7	A respectable president. I hope that no one in this room has missed the fact that we are making the journey. Since 2002, Iceland's cities and towns have been involved in this joint European project at this time of the year, but the aim of the project is to promote and increase the discussion of sustainable transport. We have been discussing the budget bill, and many of us are waiting for a discussion on a new transport program. The newcomer introduced the Environment Minister, so the government plan on climate issues, including magazine on the importance of public transportation, riding a bicycle, and making it easier for people to live a lifeless life - style. I take my heart to that goal, not because I want to ski in a bus or to ride a bicycle. Many of us and probably most of us will at a particular time depend on our personal car, since it is both convenient and efficient for transportation. No, I want to increase the variety and respect the freedom of the individual when it comes to transportation. Of course, it is this way, especially here in the most densely populated region, that we cannot continue our lifestyle. They see each human child. It is important that public transportation and transportation be improved so that more people can see the benefits of choosing such a course. Are we not mistaken, then, when we speak in this hall of public transportation and talk is primarily motivated by the needs of the country? There are many things that can be done much better in the country, and then I want to first mention energy security and general road transport, but if we are going to be successful, when it comes to public transportation and climate, our emphasis has to be here in the capital area. [[Up front.]] Therefore, we need to secure funding, both city lines and necessary changes to the root system, in order to ensure safety and pay for traffic here in the capital area. [[Up front.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u8	President. I choose to make my subject today, a decade after the collapse, the status of young people in Iceland, people who are now trying to get a roof over their heads and even think about starting a family. This is the generation that was ten years ago taking its first step into adulthood and who has not been corrected, the people who find it hard to get into the housing market. Those who are unable to collect for deposit on an apartment to buy are stuck in a rented market where there is little security and a great deal of pay to pay for the safety of a permanent home that should probably be considered. If a person is able to collect from an apartment or borrow from a well - meaning relative, he or she may be able to obtain a guarantee or inaccessible loan from a bank, but which is more convenient for long periods of time is unclear. If there is no problem, such as pregnancy or emotional trauma, in individuals who decide to borrow from the LIN to educate, it is unclear how much credit will go up over the decades that it will take for the individual to pay off. The job prospects of expert individuals are also very vague, since this trend seems to have taken place in industrial building projects rather than in promoting innovation and technology. If this generation becomes severely ill, it is unclear whether the disease will be diagnosed early enough. If the health system is also not properly equipped to assist the individual, it is also unclear. Yet, we will be surprised when we hear that young people choose to live abroad. We are surprised when we learn that the number of births in Iceland fell tremendously over the last few years. Why, though, should we be surprised? What is the motivation for young ones to decide to develop homes, work, and raise their children in their own country when their future and their children are just as unstable as they really are? Mr. President. During this assembly, young people have few proverbs, and so are they. We need young people if Iceland wants to maintain good society and sustainable futures. [[The president calls.]] Learn from the mistakes of other nations, who are now losing large groups of young people because they are not offered decently. Let's all speak for young people in Iceland. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u9	A respectable president. I have made it my habit to come here at the beginning of a council in the fall, before we begin discussing the budget fully, talking about the importance of traffic safety, and the cost of community traffic accidents. That is why I wanted to remind you of a report published by the Boarding Agency not long ago that a car accident or road accident has cost the community some 500 billion in a ten - year period. I think we should keep this in mind now that we're discussing the budget, and because of this, I've come up here regularly to remind us that the whole area of transportation is one of our greatest welfare issues, the welfare issues number one, which helps us build up the welfare community. This was also shown in the response of a health minister to me when I asked about the cost of government accidents. Then came the exact same number that exists here in Congress documents. It's also so obvious. paritaprevir Heiða the Guðný Ásgeirsdóttir's daughter, who came in earlier, how important the wood is. They are vitally important and what has guaranteed our success in the economy and so that we can live up to the well - being that has recently taken place. It is a means of transportation, a means of transportation for the Keflavík Airport. If we hadn't been able to do that, what would Iceland's situation be like? What would she be like then? We need to put the focus on building up the infrastructure, both in order to reduce the expense of society and also to increase the strength of our community to build up a welfare community here. Let's get this straight now when we discuss the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u10	Mr. President. At times, the game is unashamed. We've seen government companies and government agencies taking up a new field of competition with privates. We will witness that government companies do not follow laws, as is evident by the State Radio, which is not up to the State Radio Act, 4 / 15 g., in which it clearly states that the State Radio must establish a daughterhood to keep track of competitive business and to understand the whole difference between public service and competitiveness. In the summer, independence from the media had to live on the government radio to wipe out the advertising market. We cannot judge the damage caused by personal media. And we'll see that the state radio is now competing with the privates to rent equipment and movie and television facilities. On the other hand, according to the State Radio Act, this is to take place in the form of a daughterhood. It was supposed to have happened on January 1. Now that September is as good as half, there is no question that the State Radio makes a decision to obey the law. Then we can wonder here how we will support and try to strengthen the operation of the free media, the independent media. We will surely consider the suggestions of a higher education minister in that regard. But don't you think it's best to start with that, Mr. President, letting government agencies go into general law? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u11	Mr. President. The decisions made in this room are sure to have a great impact on our country, and many good things are being done here. However, it is a great sin, year after year and decade after decade, to observe the hatred that often exists in the majority of the councilmen of this hall, in free competition in the country. I refer to all the competitive barriers established by the General in the name of some kind of protection; in the name of the need for a shelter over this or other profession. It's all at the cost of consumers eventually. Recently we saw again a decision made by the Committee of Prices, Refundation Committee, on milk and butter, or on dairy products in general; an increase of 3.5%, which is less than 3 billion. A bill in the homes of the country, just in terms of insurance effects on the mortgages of these same homes. I often wondered why in the face of this great lack of faith is at free competition in this hall at the cost of our homes in the country. I think that with all the alike, the products and services that depend on significant competitiveness in this hall are about one fifth of the people's consumption at least, with a significant impact on higher prices. When we compare the price development of these products with that of others who are free competition, we can clearly see that these products are raising much more than products that are dependent on free competition. This also makes possible a number of billions of homes each year as a result of insurance on the mortgage. [[The president calls.]] I think it's time for us to get along, stop over the consequences of the competition, and focus on removing these same competitive barriers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u12	Mr. President. The schools have now resumed their work. At the same time, it is undisputed that the U.S. education system is low. Not overnight alone, education in Iceland has been neglected by governments for years and has made the situation even worse. The Independence Party, in particular, is responsible for what is happening to us in this important group of subjects. During the past 27 years, the Independence Party has been 22 years in the Ministry of Education. The reduction of high school from four years to three is one of the latest achievements of independents in education. More and more people are aware of what the misfortune of this decision was for an Icelandic education system. It included a gang folding of the student's test. High school entrance exams have become much more common because the student's test is no longer a guarantee to prepare for college. Trustworthy studies such as PIIA have shown that a large proportion of those who complete high school in Iceland cannot read for their benefit. Even so, most of them go to high school, which has been reduced for a year. The reduction in high school has increased the stress of students, the stress they feel, the decrease in learning satisfaction, and the increase in spiritual distress. In addition, she has reduced the sports and the leisure activities of students. The statue suffered greatly on high school social life, but social life has always been an important part of high school years and an important phase of societal development. All of this has led more students to escape from studies. Mr. President. I'm the highest. A minister of education to wind down these bad mistakes by independents in education and to restore four years of high school.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u13	Mr. President. I'd like to mention two projects. So one of them was to restore a bang, a house of grace, and a toast, here in the city country. The other was to hold a meeting in the vicinity of the capital. The estimated cost of reform in the city's land was 158 million, but at the end of that year, it cost 415 million. The meeting near the capital city was to cost 45 million, but at the end of that period, it cost 87 million. In the case of the group, the initial budget could be multiplied by over 2.6, and at the time of the meeting, the original schedule could be multiplied by 1,93. There is a measure of pity when under a major attack; tunnels, roads, or large bridges are drilled. You can't provide for all things. It's less pity when an attack is made to fix a problem, even though it may be as rotten as plans would be, let alone hold a meeting, even in solemnity, and in our most important place in the country. There's something really wrong here, and I think we're gonna have to wind up trying to fix this. Fortunately, the proposals, agreed here by the rest of the United States, have been offered to improve the work done by the government, and now nothing more than to get them started.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u14	V.E.G. President. When the teacher gets on the platform at the General Assembly, he will, of course, take advantage of the opportunity to discuss the education and status of young people. When discussing education, it is the time and criticism that are vital, the time to allow changes to take place, and the criticism of making mistakes. During the discussion, we must avoid going between the poles. There are options other than the prohibition of telephone use to the absolute freedom of children and young people by telephone. Here in this discourse, we have heard that boys cannot read for their benefit, which is, of course, a barbaric nonsense. This is exactly how the discussions between the poles swing, making it impossible for us to develop. But changes will not occur if we adhere to the same old methods and standards of education, i.e. that a small classroom with one adult teacher has 40 minutes to learn a well - defined lesson that the children have nothing to say. How should each individual benefit from education when we use a set - time schedule that measures a minute in each study article? The way to change in society is through the school system. To teach young people to criticize thinking rather than highlight a measurable learning result. This week, all 7th-grade students are tired in a consistent exploratory test. It is, in fact, unwise to dwell on the measurable results of each student's study. It is the right of every child to be educated. We all agree on what's in here. It's under the law. However, there is no doubt that this right will be fulfilled. We could add some of the laws to the fact that each child has the right to receive the education he has, sounds well, makes the school system requirements, and is the community to increase money, pay more attention, and discuss among the people. It is Alfreðsdóttir Dögg Alfredsdóttir to do well. I'd like to say for this reason, however, that the Icelandic education system is always in attendance. To a member of the Central Party who falls into the pit, to be tossed around to make some claims here, I'd like to say he needs to learn more about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u15	Mr. President. Now on Saturday, the People's University of Flatty will be in its first session. Thirty students are enrolled, and the school is finished. This year, the People's University of Flats, with its voluntary donations of individuals, institutions, and businesses, is nearly full, but it takes about 40 billion. K. Every year to run the school. The funding of the public university next year and to the future is very uncertain. Money was submitted to last week, and it cannot be seen that a cent is expected at the unfortunate public university. I hope so much that it will change to the council. I was counting on this matter to be handled by a financial committee. So we put things in perspective, it takes just as much to drive the University of Flatney for a year as it does a frontal drive for a total of 40 million Worldal Conferences in the summer. This project is about to change Flateyri, and it is part of finding a new foundation for the non-needed settlement that was pulled away from the settlement in 2007 when 3,000 tons of salmon were sold away from the village. Such projects will change villages, such as Flatuse, for a long time. This will have a far greater impact on society than on e.g. surgery such as broiling, which is actually just to extend present conditions. This project is not only important to students of the school, as I said earlier, but it is a huge social project. The population is increasing by 201⁄230%. Young people who are missing into society are growing. There's more in the nursery. There's more in middle school. Other services in the area will be strengthened, such as the grocery store. Finally, I'd like to call for a bill to legalize a public college law that I hope has not lived in the Ministry of Education. It is necessary to legalize these schools, but until then we must guarantee the people of the University of Florida and LugA at Seyden Fundament. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u16	A very impressive president. Senators are now experiencing virtually daily earthquakes and thunders as a result of their actions here in downtown. And while members of the Parliament are generally accustomed to noise and shaking, this gives us a glimpse of only a little insight into what the patients and the staff of the Lands Hospital will experience for at least the next few years if they are looking at them. But I'm not going to talk about the Land Hospital for a while. I'm going to discuss these projects downtown. Just outside the house, a huge hotel is being built, almost up to the council, and it's incomprehensible that the council will allow it to continue. The next corner is building over the mine, possibly, one of the oldest lodges ever found in Iceland, and on yet another corner here just at the Quosina is building a huge beast, a large black box that is now doing very little to improve the view of the downtown city of Reykjavík. Therefore, it is far more important that the Council try to use the ways that this institution has to keep going and not participate in this trend. Therefore will I exhort the Council, and trust in the supreme. Mr. President will help me deliver these messages, in order to rethink plans for the construction of several large black boxes under the council, here on the corner outside the window. These plans can be revised in ways that will help them improve the appearance of the General and the town center.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u17	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct various procedures in line with the requirements of budgeting for 2019 C.E. This bill suggests changes in tax laws, which are an integral part of the budget for 2019 C.E. On the one hand, there is a change in income tax laws and insurance insurance laws, and I intend to discuss their subject. First of all, in the bill it suggests that the currency boundary between the lower and the top stages of the income tax product strain changes according to the change in the index of the consumer prices for the next 12 months compared to the current index number at baseline and the end of the reference period, i.e. ... from Decemberto December, instead of a pay number, like so far. This is similar to a personal discount. On account of the budget bill, the index price increase by 3% from December 2017 to December 2018. That means, if the bill is legal, the limit of your income will be exceeded from 893,773 k. of 920,524 k. at month compared to Month 947.336 k. per month based on the estimated increase in remuneration of approximately 6% from November 2017 to November 2018. It is then suggested that during the year 2019 there will be an increase in personal discount by 1% over a legal increase in terms of the index price. There is a single shift in local payment in 2019 and during the pressures of public pay in 2020. Hence, on the basis of financial legislation, a personal discount should be raised from 53,895 k. of 56,067 k. every month, i.e. More than 4%. This means that the tax-free threshold, taking into account an expansion rate of 4% and a pension fund, is raised from 151,978 k. of 158,103 k. every month, i.e. about 4%. After the response, the taxemia rate dropped from less than 250,000 to 2 60,000 dollars. In a month, but at that end, government funds gain more money from the income tax than they are funded by the character discount. The combined effect of these changes is estimated to be 1.7 billion k. to reduce revenue taxation per year. These changes do not affect road income. Second, the bill adds additional increases in children's income benefits beyond the criteria of financial programmes to be carried out during the pressures of public pay in 2019. Under the pressures of public pay on individuals in June. was the annual payout of single parents to make a child - welfare decision of 2.9 million. K. By the income of 2017. The bill suggests that these limits go from 2.9 billion. K. To 3.6 billion. At a rate of more than 29% between 2017 and 2018, the criteria for child improvement will be set in 2019. The levels of the couple and the partners grow twice as high, i.e. It's 5.8 billion. K. Every year to 7.2 billion. K. At the same time, each child under 18 years of age will be raised by 5%. To make sure that not all of the changes mentioned above are accomplished, but mainly by those families with less income, the failure to earn a child's money is intensified when a certain revenue is reached. According to current legislation, the proportion of income reduction in children is 4% with one child, 6% with two children and 8% with three or more children when income exceeds the limit of income reduction. However, the bill suggests that the decrease ratio is increased when certain revenues are reached, i.e. 5.5 million. K. in single - parent families and 11 million. K. with couples and partners. Over this threshold, the percentages will be 5.5% for one child, 7.5% for two children and 9.5% for three children. There are no changes to the decline in income-related paediatric improvement rates with children less than seven years of age, currently 4% but suggested to increase the amount of funds itself to increase in the same way as other paediatric improvement by 5%. If the above suggestions are accepted unchanged, the total cost of the state's budget due to child - rearing is estimated to increase from 10.3 billion per year. This year to 12.1 billion in 2019 C.E. This corresponds to an increase of 17.5% between years, of 14% in absolute value. A respectable president. At the end of 2010, there were many changes in the calculation of growth improvements. These rules were to be valid for two years, but they have been extended year by year. This too will be true in 2019 C.E. If approved, interest rates have remained stable for eight years, but money has changed several times over the period. The reason why the growth reform system has been essentially unchanged is that the plans have been made for an overall review of the government's housing support for a long time and are looked to both people who own houses and renters. It should be remembered that once new housing systems have been established, from the middle of 2014, individuals are granted temporary permission to take out the tax-free special life money to buy houses or to pay on the mortgage on the appropriate housing. Now it's a dual support. On one hand, there is general support to homeowners to meet specific criteria that run their course in the middle of the next year and support those who are buying their first apartment. That support is permanent for ten years for each individual to meet specific criteria. In 2018, an estimated total support in this form is estimated at 3.5 billion dollars. in lost income for state funds and more than 2 billion for rurals in the form of a lost answer, a total of 5.5 billion dollars. every year. In 2018, unless it is determined by $3 billion. 1 billion. less money than was expected in the budgets of the year. In view of the fact that overall review of housing support in this context and the interaction with income taxes and the support of children's families is still being proposed on the bill to allow a one more year's interest policy to be extended but to increase the net share limits to 10% and sums of the maximum interest rates and peak interest rates by 5%. On the basis of these forewords, it is estimated that the next year's interest spending will be 3.4 billion, compared with nearly 3 billion each year and an increase of 13.3%. Accordingly, the amount of non-success growth improvements will be 400,000. per person, 500,000 bucks. in a single parent and 600,000 dollars. with a couple at 420,000 per person, 525,000 at a single parent, and 630,000 a.m. has a yearly basis for married couples. This is true if a family does not have more than 5.2 million in a single parent and 8.3 million in a married couple. A respectable president. Finally, in accordance with the government Treaty, it is suggested that the overall bail rate be reduced by two measures, by 0.25% from January 1, 2019, and by 0.25% from January 1, 2020. This reduction represents about 4 billion dollars. The next year's government funds and an total of 8 billion in 2020. This reduction should create enterprises to improve the scope of future labour agreements and support for negotiations. This decrease should help to counteract the loss of competitiveness of jobs following a considerable increase in pay and the greater number of the Icelandic gangs and is in line with the request that the insurance fee decline back to its former outlook. I would like to briefly review the assessment of the impact of the bill's proposals on revenues, prices, and purchases. The proposal for the bill that the upper budget of the income tax strain will be annualized according to the change in the index value of consumers instead of the pay number is estimated to be 500 billion. K. Bonus money for the state funds. The estimated effect of increasing the personality discount by 1% beyond the legal increase in index price in the 2019 labour payment and at the pressures of public pay during 2020 is estimated at around 2.2 billion dollars. Children's cut-offs and cut-off criteria lead to an increase in children's overall spending beyond what was expected in the financial programme for 2019◯2023. In 2018, child - saving expenses are about 10.3 billion, i.e. in the current year, but heading to 12.1 billion on the basis of what was described earlier. An increase according to this level will be 17.5% from this year to the next one, i.e. $1.8 billion, counting. The bill's proposal to change growth reform criteria results in an increase in total cost from 3 billion to 3.4 billion dollars. between 2018 and 2019. That's 400 million. K. an increase of more than 13% between years. It is assumed that by reducing the total insurance bill by 0.25% from January 1, the income will be reduced by 4 billion dollars. in 2019 C.E. That will put the income of the state's budget to a minimum of 4 billion dollars. In addition, as mentioned earlier, a reduction in the total insurance rate from January 1, 2020, by 0.25%. This total is 8 billion in two years, 8 billion since January 1, 2020, and 4 billion in 2019 C.E. If this bill remains unchanged, the law should have a positive effect on the provision of households and Icelandic employment. Its influence on government and its institutions is considered negligible. Clearly, the state funds will be made out of several incomes, at least to a shorter time, since the purpose of the procedure is to reduce spells. This effect on government funds should be reduced when over a longer period of provisional families, which return to an increase in well - oiled cats. The overall impact of the bills on Kingdom funds is 7.9 billion in 2019 and 11.9 billion in 2020, respectively. A respectable president. According to this, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u18	President. Thank you very much. The secretary of finance for the review, and to begin first, especially, the taking of steps in reducing long - term insurance fees. It's a pleasure to see it finally work out. As a result, insurance will likely be at the end of this shrinking process comparable to what it was about to result in the collapse. Then, much later rose, and this decline is long since date from unemployment level and so on. But what attracts my attention is different. I've criticized a huge increase in budget and the government's financial programme in general and asked which taxes to raise. It seems to me that the Ministry officials found a way to raise taxes every year with the changes being made here on the income tax system. You see, if we take a long period of time and by aiming at the cutoffs, both in bottom and in the upper steps of pay and in person, at the index of consumer prices, and so on, instead of aiming on the remuneration, we are, in fact, always able to move the tax burden down into the tequilas, we are always slow and slow. They gain weight on these most money - rich groups because a personal discount is then updated to the index price of consumers rather than to pay. This should change it so that the higher tax steps are calculated that way too. Am I mistaken, my highest. Secretary of finance, that it is done slowly and slowly to increase the burden of tax on all employees in the country? And that there's an automatic tax increase in this department?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u19	A respectable president. Yes, talking about the index standards in the law deserves to be discussed. We are free to do so every year, as shown in this bill, to add. We add one percent of the improvement in the personality discount over the criteria of the consumer calculus. And, fortunate as it may be, paying usually increases higher rates in Iceland, that is not always the case. When evolution occurs the other way, such as. This was followed by the collapse of financial companies, a protection in that the character discount adheres to the other index for the crisis. There's been a lot of talk since last year, including... Following a report by the National Association of Iceland, on this trend over a longer period of time, whether it is right to aim the personal discount on the pay sheet or according to the incident of this budget as we have done. I think we need to examine that discussion in a more balanced and broad light. I think, for example, and I'm going to say here, that it was not bad evolution that more people are entering the local labour system, as has happened with the pay development in our country and with the index link we've had on the person discount. Today, there are more people who are sharing in the work of parking taxes than they were ten years ago. I think it's a positive development. At the same time, all groups have more provisional income. One of the things I want to consider in this discussion is whether we should consider the option to link the development of the character discount, change in it from year to year, and even this money limit, with a combination number of consumers, i.e. inflammation of the wound, and development of yields in the country, whether or not plus inflation should be the criterion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u20	President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. So it's right with me, we'll slowly see the increase in tax burden over this. I appreciate what the secretary of finance is doing about this, and of course it is true that the protection of insurance is real at the very time when we receive inflation and the real potential loss of money. Happily, it is much more the exception than the other one with us, so it is much more common for us to see wages rising even considerably above prices. This could be a very interesting debate on the financial and business committee, but I think, in the long term, it's much better that we replace our tax system with the income of what we can call the adult people so that their tax rates of income are comparable to those of people who benefit from an increase in financial resources, that the tax burden is not growing when we look for an all - out - of - money gain. The other is the danger of a measure of the fluctuating government budget that the government's financial resources are growing very much during the period of strumbling, i.e. increase in taxes is more likely due to increase in costs and the tax burden is increasing in individuals. As a result, when we are successful, more income comes into the state's budget when we just need to hold back the expansion. As the examples show, not just in the financial bill we now discuss but decades back in time, we tend to spend the money that comes in the box, and especially when it is well spent.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u21	A respectable president. So I'm just following this idea I used to do earlier, it's the thought that the goal for a change in person's rate from year to year is what should normally be room for change, inflation plus growth of production. Proliferation and inflation It would only be removed if a person negotiates higher pay rates, which are much higher than production and inflation. Then we're not following it anywhere, and it does not automatically affect the change in personality discount. But do we make these changes with some self - efficiency for tax promotion in a commercial tax system? I say no. This bill is an example of something else - an example that shows that a person's discount exceeds that of his target. If we look back a few years, we've been lowering the income tax while making personal discounts. If it is said that through the economy, through the pay raise period, the tax burden of individual groups is not to change but, prior to the changes in pay, the conclusion has first been reached, expected, that the tax burden is set correctly at the time of the corresponding period. I was here in my first speech saying that I think it was good development in the past few years that more people came into the manifest, that more pay taxes. I'm not sure that we've always had the right percentage of national employees in the market, active participants in paying taxes from their income. There is a very special discussion of how we view our local payment system. Finally, I always look at how people's provisional income is developing, making donations for the income. Fortunately, they have been developing in the right direction. We will be able to do much deeper research to see how this has developed for some extraordinary revenues for the past few decades. There are numbers, and we should be able to understand more about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u22	Mr. President. I'd like to ask the highest question. Secretary of finance for child-circuits. We in the United States and others have been quite concerned about the child reform system. We can see that in recent years, a quarter of the group who had a child support in the past fell from that system because of impairment. Of course, it is a joy to know that child - welfare programs are now being suggested not far below the minimum wage. But I remind you that we are only a few months away from making such a change right in this room. This change was made by all the governments. Child support, as it is today, starts cutting off 242 you. K. In a month, which is far below the minimum wage. We're happy about the change. Similarly, with this rise in child damage, there is an increase in the number of middle - income deficits. We'll see that that's the 460 you've got. K. every month in pay or more increases the decrease. Any 4% with one child will be 5.5%, 6% reduced to 7.5%, 8% reduced to 9.5% if the children become three. I'd like to ask the highest. Financial Minister: This increase in proportions of proportions, what does it cost to a Icelandic home? He is only lifting child repairs at the bottom, but he is tightening the shrinkage of the middle - income group. I remind you, 460. K. does not have a particularly high salary. There are new numbers now showing that the country's median wage is 618 fars. K. and the average wage is about 710 you have. K. so we're still cutting up pediatrics way below the average and the median numbers. We still mean this approach that we've been criticizing, that child support is some kind of poverty. Why is it not a good look when it comes to child rearing? [[The president calls.]] There are mainly these numbers I'm calling for at the highest level. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u23	A respectable president. It's because of the fact that we're increasing the percentage of people with intermediate income and above. It prevents us from raising our own improvements, so those in this group come down to the same place despite increasing reductions because of an increase in the improvement. They're not taking pedophiles from these people. They're giving them some sort of status. However, it is emphasized that the addition we are about to install into the children's relief system is especially good for those who are in the lowest salary; children's families, young people, people with children under seven years of age and low wages; students, people who are about to start life and have recently reached the labour market, are in their first job; people who have taken more children than yet to lower pay points. These people are given special support. So there is another debate whether we should generally put more than 10 to 12 billion into the child - reform system. I wouldn't want to agree that we view the child - welfare system as a financial boost to the poor. Today, we have an example of a single parent who is even earning a million a month. We are far from having a system that is tailored to those who are alone in their ability to support themselves. However, I believe that if we have space, we should rather stress reducing the tax rate to the general tax percentage than continuing to pay out compensation to people over average pay. It's just a ideological difference between us. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u24	Mr. President. Yes, it's a very good case to highlight this ideological difference between the Independence Party and the Controversy. V.E.G. A minister says he's here primarily increasing the decline in intermediate groups, which he's going much lower than that. There is an increase in the decline in people with 460 Thous. K. per month. It's not the intermediate group, it's got a higher salary than it used to be. The average wage is over 700 yards. K. The median result, which may be more accurate, is 618 you. K. So this is still cutting down on children's benefits to the lowest earner. Of course, I welcome every cent they put in child support. There's an additional 1.8 billion in child damage here, but it's interesting to put in context that two more primes are at the highest level. The secretary of finance will measure later today, when he takes 2.3 billion from the common people. They're supposed to raise the radio fees, oil bills, carbon bills, automobile bills, alcohol bills, expenses of the elderly. It's interesting to put this into context. I'd like to later answer my question, just to mention growth improvements. When people talk about a budget bill being raised, I feel that people are being deceived. It was decided that there would be 4 billion in interest of 2018, only 3 billion because of the impairment, we've gone so far in it, and now for 2019 it's supposed to be 3.4 billion. This, of course, is a reduction in growth change compared to what we had decided would be set in 2018. I remind you, the last time the United States was in the government, we put 100 billion of us together in interest of interest and child support during the election season. We put four times that amount in interest of interest. That's why I don't understand why it's the highest. The secretary of finance is here conducting a spring financial programme in which it is specifically said that the total amount of interest should not be increased. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Does it mean that a roof has been placed on a total interest scale, or is he willing to change it as if he seems to be weak in regard to child reform? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u25	A respectable president. First of the child's benefits: When it comes to the income tax system in general, the problem is. A senator, and his group in general, very busy caring for the balance of income taxation. However, when it comes to the child - welfare system that plays with the income tax system, it is as if you are speaking against the system's income balance role. It is true that the rate of decline is being increased by a set of criteria that lie around the average income, but I have previously been able to increase the improvement personally and to extend to the children's families that are lower in the income ladder. As for interest improvements, they used to be. A senator so that what to add would have been decided on. The figure expressed in the budget each year is calculated. It is calculated on a certain basis, based on certain economic developments in the community, and then there are the calculated results later in the year. It is true that all the money did not go out during the current year because wages have increased more, and the family of the family has proved to be better than we anticipated. Then, when people discuss the growth reform system in a longer period of time, it must be kept in mind what I mentioned here in my introduction that we have been resorting to other resources to help families who are paying off their mortgages. I mentioned here to our special savings, the tax appeal involved, about 5.5 billion a year. Then she plays again with the 80 billion headstains we were involved in. So when people watch this, then look at the housing reform system, the stock we've been working on, redesigning the law frame for tenants, etc., you get a picture of what you're doing on account of housing in general.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u26	Mr. President. I'm going to take a few words on this bill, which, of course, is presented in connection with the budget bill we discussed before the weekend. I'm gonna go over it a little bit. It's like the highest. The minister of finance is here making a variety of tax reforms and adjustments to the reforms, either to add or add a spell to the public. The changes in income tax below are primarily this 1% additional increase in the character discount I'm going to discuss only after. In other words, there is an increase of 1% above what should be done by law. Then it is a similar link between the income markets in the upper level of income taxation and the personal discount. Children's savings, interest rates, and insurance costs are also being modified. This change in person discount is of interest, as I'm talking about that according to current legislation, the money threshold between the lower and the top stages of the income taxation strain will change at the beginning of each year according to an increase in the salary value value. However, the personality discount has changed according to the consumption of the price tag. Here's where we're synchronizing the update. It is stated in the bill that this variety of updates has been carefully criticized because the pay sheet has increased substantially above the value of consumer consumption. These are two different indicator numbers. The pay has been rising in the country, thereby paying the tax on the income tax for the benefit of the revenue. It's interesting, and it's perfectly obvious, that the opposite happens when the index price, this key figure that so many people support, increases beyond the pay as it happened in the years after a crash. It reminds me a little bit of the discussion about whether or not the staff is supposed to be in the index. It has been suggested that it is so unfortunate to have the staff in the index. I'm not necessarily on it. I remind you that in 2010 and 2011, it was in favor of an Icelandic home that had credit for having the staff in the index, since the conditions in the housing market were in such a way. It would be much more sensible, I think, to look at the ideas of longer-term housing prices and have such changes as part of the index. Sweden, for example, is told by me, in this way. But there may be other discussions. Statistics are merely measuring, measuring units, and then another discussion with the index is used, whether in terms of securable loan or in any other way. I just wanted to say this in anecdotes. We in the United States and others, of course, have criticized a little that there's been so little improvement in the character discount here. But there's a very interesting sentence here that I want to read that confirms so much that we in the United States have said for a very long time. By permission of the President: The increase in personal discount, a fixed crown number, is apparent to outweigh the decrease in tax rate to that revenue as compared to the level of earner when viewing an equation effect of the system. It's in the highest bill. Secretary of finance. Of course, it's obvious to us, of course, but we've been able to deal with that in this room and beyond whether it would be more reasonable and would be better out for the public to change the income tax ratio as it is, as it is in many parts of the financial program, which is the big contribution we made for a summer break, or whether we should change the person's discount. It's so obvious that we've had some sort of conflict between the members of the board because you heard independents and some of the highest. Secretary of finance is more likely to suggest that we should lower the income tax rate, that would be a more reasonable way, to reduce the percentage. I pointed out that the way to lower the income tax rate would benefit the senator three times more, to get a three-fold more dollar reduction in taxes than a person in minimum debt. We pointed out that this is an unfair way to do so. To reduce the income tax by 1 percentage level makes 14 billion, if this is done at one step. There are many ways to do things for 14 billion. We have rather talked about using these 14 billion to improve the improvement system or to make some changes in the personality discount. Here's a black on the white, I'd say, if the goal is to increase the equation, like we in the United States have been calling in and a lot of people among the people, I'd say, it's better to look at the personal discount than to experiment with a decrease in the tax rate itself. Of course, there's a lot of politics in this. I realize that not everyone agrees completely on this. But this is a key point in this regard. But back to this increase, to raise the personal discount by 1%. That's 530 bucks. per month. That's all. It's relatively expensive to raise the character discount, we know that, it's going up the entire scale. But to raise the personal discount by 530 bucks. beyond what needs to be done because of the law, it is linked to a consumer calculator number, perhaps a grossly calculated 1,500 k. increase in tax-free intervals. It's like a thumb rule, it's a date-off, a tax rate, and then it's a tax cutout. That's all there is to it. This will cost the state funds of 1.7-1.8 billion. As I mentioned earlier, this is about half of what the Minister is going to take from the nation or the homes with increased taxes elsewhere. He's going to raise these classic taxes that all governments make, alcohol charge, tobacco tax, car fees, oil fees, all these products with a nontetric demand that is so tempting for any financial minister to raise. The bill as the highest. The minister's recommendation in the future is to raise the expenditures by 2.3 billion, as soon as he has measured the case. Then there's the third bill as the highest. A minister will measure later today, it will take about half a billion from the homes, as he is raising all the other fees, passports, and all that we pay. All right. I have not been afraid to talk about the need for money. We need to consider how to finance the factors we want to finance. We should not be shy about raising taxes. At times, I feel as if my independent associates thought that money would grow on trees. They won't. The money will be available in the nation's economy, and if we are going to - yes, right - to finance the hospitals and schools, finance what the nation has been calling on, we need tax companies to do so. [[Up front.]] And we've noted that at this time, and perhaps least last year and last year, the income form of the state funds is lacking. I've said from this chair that holding is good, and I've come to realize it, and I've emphasized that we don't do everything for everyone. But holding is two kinds. Reservation does not just cut down expenses, as it is sometimes heard. Reservation may also involve making use of a government fund's income opportunity. There are some ideas about that. We've been talking about how we can earn more money from foreign tourists. Couldn't raise the resource fees? What about the financing tax? What about the income-related resource tax or whatever it is? If the nation is to receive hospitals and schools and poorer and older citizens the debt that they deserve, we need to finance it in some way. But it's all coming out of the same pot. We cannot meet voters 15 minutes for elections, as all categories do and promise scores if not a hundred billion on infrastructure, as the Independence Party did, still on the home page of the Independence Party, he promised a hundred billion dollars. into the development of the last election. Of course it has to be financed somehow. One hundred billion don't grow on trees the way I used to. This peculiar setting of priorities appears here. In that, at the same time as the government has the time to place 1.8 billion in an increase in personality discounts, the time to put 1.8 billion into raising the small child damages, it is also so generous that it reduces the cost of fishing by 3 billion. How generous she is to that group! All I've told them is that when it comes to this government, it seems that it doesn't seem that big-ass artists have to fight as much as midwives had to do. I believe there's room here to increase resource costs. Then I look not only to the fishing road but also to the energy and tourism. These are the main sources of our professional life that use common resources. This is interesting to put into context. I mentioned the capital tax earlier. That's an interesting point. Of course, I know that tax is aggressive, but it is due in 2019 to turn in $2 billion. less than a financial plan expected. There are relatively few who pay interest taxes. Why is that? Because when we were in the government, the Conspiracy, we created a holiday goal. Most people do not pay money taxes, that is, relatively few people do. If we just look at the market for stock sales, it was only 2% of families that paid interest on that interest. It is a narrow group with vast possessions. I'm not gonna take my shit about how much money I have in this country, but it's pretty much. It is this array of properties that we see today. The GINI factor that often supports is more than most of the world in most places. But I've repeated the magnitude of the property balance. This may be enough of the income tax and the personal discount. I've been standing in front of you before for the children's settlements. We're putting 1.3% of our money in child support. That's all. 99% of the maximum. A minister keeps from playing into something else. I think there's good reason to put more on child support. It's expensive to have children here. We can put this in a larger context, too. The birth rate has crashed in Iceland. It's very important. Not that long ago, 4,600 children were born this year, about 4,000 children, 4,100. There are many reasons. The percentage of provisions taken by young people who go to housing has also been increasing. It's harder to be young today, and it's hard to be a child today. It's been always hard, I know, but we don't have to make it harder. Child damages are a good way to reach a distinct group. It's a very convenient way. Also, interest improvements. I know that they can have some negative qualities, including the encouragement to pay, or whatever the situation may be, but while the situation is in such situations, I think we should make better use of the interest. Of course, they are just subsidies at the cost of housing. It is the means by which all surrounding nations have used for years. The setting of 3.4 billion in interest of growth is in the large context of a margin of 900 billion. ... whichis within the administration of the government. Why is it so hard to get the government, completely out of the way, from whether it's right men or left men, to trust more fully in the two factors? Even if we were to double our child's improvements or growth improvements, things would not turn out very well. I'm totally convinced of that. It wouldn't even have to be that much if they didn't trust in it. As I had a chance to do it before in my counter, it's a little bit political. During the reign of the United States, a total of 100 billion were put in the terms of growth and child support. This is an example of the importance of who is ruling. This shows who is the most important Person in this government and who is not. This bill, and the budget bill, shows that when it comes to sharing our funds, children, young people, orphans, and older citizens, they are not at the top of the list. Of course, I know there's a lot of positive stuff in the budget, but what we're doing, pointing out what we can do, trying to find the holes. We may be criticized for being negative, but it is our job in the management situation to try to find the problems on these primary sites and try to encourage these fine people, who are good for good works. I can also agree that the state funds are not meant to be open enough for everything and everyone. It may take a long time, or some time, to improve what the nation had to do after the collapse. We took it like a dog. The senator pointed to last week's loans in the interior. We neglected the official infrastructure. And now it's only time that when the state's strong, because it won't always be strong, there's a wink in the air as far as it goes, then there's a chance to put money on these basics. That's why it hurts so much that the message for disability and older citizens is: You have to wait another year. The bill that will be discussed later today is, for example, part of the bill. expected that the pay-off target for the occupational disability will remain the same. A crown is still standing. This is to be expected only for the 4 billion, which is just one third of the cost of a dollar. These are some things that cause quite a disappointment, that this is not refurbished as government funds from so much money to play and actually testify. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u27	A respectable president. I was originally going against the highest. Secretary of finance, but for some temporary insane reason, I turned it off. I'm sorry very much, because I would've wanted to ask him. Hv. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson considered the same subject, so I think it's good to ask him about it as well. This change in money limits between below and the top stages of the income taxation strain. I think I understand the problem people are trying to solve with this, but I have my doubts about the meaning of such changes, and I have the same feelings and feelings. A senator when people talk about the staff of the consumer price index, that they often select time when possible. And now it seems like a total agreement that we are on the top of the so - called economy. There seems to be concern in the community, and in some places, hope that the dollar will turn down, as it is very high, it seems to agree on it. It is not hard to imagine that, in the near future, consumer credits will exceed the pay sheet. Then exactly, if what I think is likely to happen, the effect here is trying to stop me from continuing as I understand it. I wanted to hear more from what I heard. A senator to see if I'm correct in his understanding and particularly in the fact that we want the same number on these financial boundaries as the person's discount. All right, I get it. However, should that not be more common in general? That's what I was wondering. That's what we're talking about. In physics, it is sometimes said that beautiful formulas are likely to be correct. I don't know if that's true in this article. But somehow I think it's normal, and I want to hear what you think. It's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u28	Mr. President. Yeah, I think we need to be a little careful when we start going down on these indicator numbers and what index number we're going to aim for, as I mentioned earlier. If a personal discount was based on a pay number - I think I have the right number, I think it's a personal discount of 74 points. K. He's 54 Yous. K. today. Remuneration has gone up a lot, it's no secret. Remuneration rates have increased considerably more than the consumption factor. Hence, this arrangement, this different link between a personal discount and a set of limits, has been criticized. I feel like we're entering a very difficult economic situation. I think inflation is rising. We see evidence of this. Then, of course, it's just what it's all about. A senator was saying. My feeling is that we've been kind of lucky with the inflation. The imported inflation has been very low, there has been a very low inflation in the euro. We've had the same age as zero in the euro area. Oil prices have been low. It's all changing. Water prices are rising, oil prices are increasing, and imported goods are getting more expensive. Then there is the blessed gang, the crown's gang, the pink elephant in all of this. The crown's real life has rarely been as strong as it is now. Now it's been giving in. We can see that the actual rate of the crown dropped by 67% the other day. What does that mean? That means, like a thumb rule, one third to half of it goes up to the imported products. If the real rate of a dollar falls by 6%, the serios and the wheat and the cars and everything we don't produce and move in by 3 percent. This is a bit of an interesting development. This, in turn, affects our insurance loans too. If we put these numbers in perspective, a 6% decrease in real estate, a 3% rise in imported products, into the prices of loans - and this is a reference to an scope of 4% increase in pay - then it's all gone in this context if we look at this from this point of view. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u29	A respectable president. There are these reasons why I think it's more likely than we'll see more in the future. This is only in harmony with the predictions of a reporter who sends reviews on the matter into the Generals and who can hardly feel a strong opinion. I hope I don't get the old splash again that you're talking down the economy. It's an unpleasant saying that was used here before a collapse, happy memories. What I'm particularly wondering about in this is that if this is about right now, when pay has been rising faster than prices, and prices begin to increase faster than salary, it will be the more efficient groups that have benefited from the arrangement we've had, this miscalculation between the index and the upper level of income taxation. Then we'll work on this, as it is called, and what I'm wondering is, " Wouldn't this be a pay sheet for both persons' rates and the money limits? It's a salary we're talking about, it's both phenomena, step-by-step income tax and the personal discount, it's a income balance device. I feel that in every way normal, if, above the head of a index tie like this, which is a different question, it should be a pay number, in general, regardless of how we feel about evolution in the next year or how we have evolved in the last year. Is it not normal for us to use the remuneration of these devices, regardless of how we feel the economy is developing?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u30	Mr. President. I think the point is that it's at least the same index. Now we have an arrangement that has different indexes, whether to a person's discount or to a reference limit of income. I believe, however, that we should rely on the consumer calculus. What do we use our income for? To buy goods. Countless income is determined by how much we can earn for our crowns. If we use a pay number, so could--now I'm just thinking aloud from this chair, it's an interesting discussion. Of course, a personal discount might work to increase pay, including from one of the largest professionals in the country that is the state. By increasing the pay of public employees, the pay will increase the pay number and the personal discount will rise. A huge increase in character discount is very expensive. It costs about 1.7 billion, something like that, I don't quite remember, raising a personal discount of 1,000 bucks. You can see that if a personal discount had been linked to a remuneration number, I hope I'm not wronging you, he'd be about 20 of you. K. ... biggerthanIightbe. Well, then you've got 201⁄230 billion. That's a little high, if I remember those numbers correctly. To me, we support the same index. I'm more inclined to rely on consumer calculus than on a pay number. Only with regard to the salary in general: Here's just a underlying problem that leads to production. Their opinion, I believe, is that all members of Congress share. The production is nothing more than the efficiency of an hour. In spite of Greek production, so to speak, we are able to maintain a high standard of native living. We've got a long day's work, high-producing women's jobs and high-profiles of senior citizens. This is why, three reasons why we are able to maintain relatively high national production on every head, despite our low production. [[The president calls.]] It has been low for decades, and it is a major concern that the whole world should talk about more often.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u31	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech is excellent. There were many things I could agree with, but there are also many things that I find difficult to understand. I've asked them a lot of times. A senator on his opinion when it comes to tax matters, how far he should go in what he calls an opportunity for income, i.e. how far we should go in making the most of these income opportunities. On one occasion, a talk was made that we independents were unable to take advantage of the means to make money. But there is something else. I'm going to point a question to what? A senator because I don't quite understand if he's making a recommendation when it comes to child reforming, that pedophiles should go to everyone regardless of income, which I believe is a valid view. Then we can ask ourselves, " Should I simply introduce the personal discount of children whom parents can apply independently? ' Or maybe child support is in the sense of the Union, especially in the mind of what. A senator, a tool to support primarily the lascivious ones? It is, of course, the understanding that man has had, that man has been trying over the years, to focus primarily on those who need help, not on those who do not need help or support from the State. The question is simple: Is child reform in the mind of the senator's income balance device, or is it proper to eliminate all problems with income?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u32	Mr. President. Thank you for a good and clear question. No, I think it's okay to make a contribution. I am not necessarily aware that benefits such as child benefits or interest improvements should be independent of income or property status. What I'm trying to criticize here is that we've gone too far in the wrong way, but we can totally deal with the limits. Half of it's done from the growth reform system, as I used to know before, and 1/4 from the child-replacement system. Of course, I realize that this has happened because wages have increased and housing prices have increased. I know exactly why they get affected, but the damages have just gone too far. Children's benefits are impaired by 242 you. K. There's not a lot of people with 242 yous. Well, fortunately, there are others, and that is actually under the minimum wage. Of course, it says that the defect goes too far. We don't have to mess with the opposite interests, those with the lowest income and the intermediate groups. I want middle pickers to get child support and interest, but we can totally debate it, and we can discuss when it starts and how wrong it should be. I'm not saying everyone's supposed to get pediatrics. In fact, I think in some North countries, child damage is unfashionable, I'm not asking for child support in my case. As a matter of fact, I think it's all right, that it can be considered. The core is that we've gone too far. They have become powerless, have given a good witness to the group to which they should be involved. That's what I'm saying. Let us put more energy into these measures. They are not the animals, and they reach this distinct group and the interests that the majority share with us. It'll cost you 2530. K. a month to have a kid in a nursery in Iceland, that's 300 yous. K. every year. We may have preschoolers for five, six years if you have two or three children, you already have 3 million high school expenses. There are many costs that fall on family members in this country, and we are to make life less expensive and easier, especially for our young generation. We're supposed to use this common fund for that, and we're going to bring in the taxes. Of course, we need to finance this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u33	Mr. President. It's fine that there's a problem then. A senator believes that it is right to accept child - welfare benefits in some way. Well, then, the question is, where is it? The same is true of growth improvements. It must also mean that other factors, including those, are looked at. The property, the network, the growth reform system. It tells itself that when growth improvements decrease, i.e. The overall growth paid by the state's funds means that people are getting better if something else is unchanged. Money is getting bigger, debt is turning down, we're getting better. We should be cheered up here in this room because that's a sign we're getting results. We're getting results in improving the quality of life here. It can also be kept in mind, such as the highest. The secretary of finance earlier showed that it does not mean merely looking at the growth process or the amount of money that goes into it. There must also be a record of what has been done here and the tax appeals that are involved in allowing people to take out their special property and use it to build up their own money in apartments. After all, this helps and has even been done. the effect to reduce the need for future growth reforms. It's a very sensible approach, and I'm thinking about it. A senator must be happy when things go well; earners are increasing, property is improving, debt is lowered, and the standard for living is thus high.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u34	Mr. President. Yes, of course, I rejoice when people are doing better - they do not, of course, with everyone but with some people. I say, " Let them enjoy their fruits. ' If the money is rising, if the property is becoming worth more, why does the government's curator have to come to the limit and cut off the benefits you receive? These unions have been pointing out. They achieve some victory in collective agreements, and so does the State with a decrease, resulting in lower net effect. That's what I'm trying to criticize, that we have to look handsomely at the welfare system. The road system should not be a minimal network, as some right men approach it. The welfare system is supposed to be strong. We're supposed to be in this Norwegian spirit. We're not supposed to be in the British or American spirit. We are not even playing the minimum role in the welfare system, as is indicated here. I just wanted to come into it -- because I talk a lot about taxes and people, you know, maybe I just want to raise taxes, and the Union just stands for them -- that I just think we're responsible for our position when we're calling out for an increase in government spending. At times, we have been criticizing our friends on the left for that, but we also have ideas about an increase in taxes. The union has often been the cause of tax declines. I just want to recall that the Conspiracy, when she was in the government of 2009, raised the personal discount, that's a decrease in income tax. In fact, the United States has been responsible for the reduction of capital taxes; by the introduction of the cut-off target that nearly cleared the stocks from the taxpayers. We have reduced corporate income taxes, but unlike us and those in the government today, and perhaps especially the independents, we have tried to protect the low - income groups. After the collapse, the taxes in the lowest income group dropped, according to studies at the University of National Affairs. Now the tax load of the busiest groups and the intermediate groups has been increasing. Yes, because the pay has been rising. Why, though, do we not allow people to benefit from it? If the pay goes up, why should the Kingdom always benefit? We don't have to let the tax burden increase in low - income and middle income, despite any increase in pay from these groups. It is a political decision that we can make with a more reasonable taxist.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u35	A respectable president. I'm not gonna have a lot of words on this particular case, but there are some things I'm a little distracted about. First of all, the arrangement for changing the rate of tax time to be adjusted in both steps is based on the index price of consumption, instead of the pay number in the top level, and the index price for consumption in the lower, to the personal discount. Indeed, it is true and vital that this be resolved. But it is clear that this includes a long - term increase in taxation. This includes a steady increase in tax burden, especially in the lower income levels in the labour market and, in fact, in general. That's a very unfortunate arrangement for me. It's a bit of a system-wide system, if that's the way you put it. It's very comfortable. The decision to increase taxes at regular intervals is not necessarily to be made; it just happens on its own. The tax system should be comparable from year to year, from ten years to decade when it comes to the tax burden of individual revenues. With these changes, it won't be. I'd rather have seen the agreement the other way, that the character discount would be calculated every year based on a remuneration number rather than an index price. I listened to the ideas of the highest degree. Secretary of finance, in answer to the above, about changing this arrangement in the long term, using some kind of production scale. The problem, of course, is that there is considerable variability in sectoral growth and is a more hairy term, can be said, and more difficult to measure than standard indicator measurements. After all, as we look at decades at each other, we find that paying and buying are tending to increase with the same expansion, even though it is highly swinging in our country. As a result, real wages are rising by 1.5% per year, although they can certainly vary considerably from year to year. What is even more interesting in this context - and maybe it's better to advertise according to government policy on taxes and income taxes in particular, since it seems to change from month to month - the government contract says that a decrease in the tax percentage in the lower level of 1% should be aimed. This change of 14 billion had already been brought up in this financial discussion since the last spring. Now, however, a sudden rise in personality discount is being made, in turn, an extra price and an increase in child welfare, which I can most certainly celebrate. However, similar suggestions were presented here by both exorbitant and Conspiracy - improvement in the specific growth of growths and partnerships for a specific increase in child development - in the last budget, which was taken from the same section. Today, some of the ideas they presented are being harmonized with. The problem may be, when you listen to voices in the administrative part, to a tax change, or to a planned reexamination of the tax system, it was proposed in the Treaty to lower the tax percentage by 1%. It has certainly been criticized that in the present system, this will do no less and even better for those who make money to the average or above. But when the government had disappeared, it was hardly written, and it declared that there was some sort of revision of the cohesion of the income tax system and the reform system. The wording in those statements sounded somewhat in harmony with the ideas that were presented in a meeting area for increased prosperity, which was then a gradual decrease in personality discount by earnings, an expedient even - an idea that I personally have been impressed with, in fact, on their policy sheet, both for the 2016 and 2017 elections. The media had similar ideas at least before the 2017 election. How much more interesting it was to listen to the highest! Social Affairs is talking about something quite different here in discussions about the budget bill last Friday, where he was talking about adding a higher tax level to the spirit of the ideas that the left green has put, and the Conspiracy in part. In this roundabout, I wondered if the government knows where they're headed for the income tax system or what to do. This is interesting. I think it would be better for all concerned if the government could get together for some sort of policy on this. It is obvious that between the two fiscal bills submitted by this government and the financial programs it proposed in the meantime, this policy appears to be changing constantly. She seems kind of lost, blessed the board, in this. Personally, I think it would be most successful if we were to revise the income tax system in the spirit of the proposals laid out on the part of our territory. I'd better be thinking, too, that this reexamination would be done in the council because it's very important that we end this round-the-counting process into our income tax system back and forth. We're not supposed to be messing with a income tax system, so I'm talking about the basic properties of the income tax system, after a certain financial minister or political party or depending on whether 500 million more or less are missing in the state box at the moment. This system needs a complete thought, and it needs to be fairly stable between years and decades. Of course, it's not unnatural to be set in some way, but we're not supposed to be in an endless chat, as we've been in recent years, where semi-made U-turns have been taken almost every time between governments. I am impressed with the ideas presented on the basis of my discussion, for the main reason that these are very reasonable ideas for the most efficient groups in society. These are suggestions for a gradual person discounting, on how to obtain an expedite character discount, which, in turn, are most effective in the tithing, and will make it easier for us than on the current income tax system to set the system accurately off for the most efficient groups and, at the same time, it is absolutely necessary to review the paediatric improvement system and the growth reform system. This is where I completely agree with today's basic thinking, which requires consideration, that this support is directed to the most efficient groups in society. That's right, which was shown in the case of the highest. Secretary of finance earlier, that we do not have a support system that supports people who make money or who earn more money. There can be no purpose, no purpose, in both our income tax and reform systems, to support people with medium income or more. There's something wrong with that thought. Therefore, I call for it - and it is possible to offer assistance to the council in this government's aimlessness at the time of the income tax system - that we will simply sit over this together and review the matter. There's one thing in these improved systems that I think needs special consideration, especially when it comes to the growth factor, but it's also true of the child reform. We've stopped letting these systems sit in a swing. He quickly reduces the relative support of these systems when well-fed and then flourishes handsomely in a crisis, perhaps to some extent. I think it was too extreme. In particular, when it comes to our growth reform system, the housing support in this regard, I would like to point out that income should only bind him, not make him property. I'm not better off as an individual, even if my apartment has gone up if it's as high as it was, and if my income is the same as they were. It's no good to me at 40 million. K. An apartment is suddenly 44 million. K. value if my income is the same as my debts, they're the same. The premise for my decision remains unchanged, and I relied on the support of a growth reform system, but I may be struck out suddenly because of my sudden holding of more property. My burden of payment is the same. The crowns in your wallet before and after the payoff are the same. This cannot be the criteria of the supportive system as such. It's perfectly normal to take edge, then there's really some change in position. So I think it is very important to complete this review as soon as possible on both the income tax system and this important child support system. Finally, just to save the council one more talk. In a case of the highest degree. A financial minister will then recommend to me that the Ministry of finance is set up in some form of currency, to raise where the Ministry considers lack of financial support from 2010 to be expected. This is very special, for it is natural that the price paid by the State should be raised to a degree. It is part of our inflation crisis to be justified and holy to aim for some increase in the index price of consumers, and everything else is likely to increase accordingly. As you look at the price of free competition, you will find that these same groups are raising considerably less than the index price of consumers during the same period. In general, I don't think that in business, you have the luxury of always being able to add worth to all the prices. The government should abandon them bad habits. What makes it worse for me in this context is that in connection with collective agreements a few years ago, it was said that the state was taking care of this matter, that it would be guided not to raise its individual depositors or creditors more than to the sensitivity of the Suldla Bank's inflation target at any given time, which I thought was a good goal. I feel somehow that, if you say so, it's a promise that you can correct me if I'm missing something. But I feel that this law is mainly most committed to spending a lot on the expense side that all means to increase income without calling it tax increase, which is why some 500 million additional countries are being picked up. The income tax system is then modified so that taxes can be raised on each subject without being noticed by anyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u36	A respectable president. I'm going to try to save the most important part of the program until then, but this is definitely related and is likely to be the reason. In his speech, a member of the body of elders took up psalms. I'd like to ask you what. Only in this, a member of the body with the ceilings between the lower and the higher tax points of income tax taxes, and particularly with these inflation diseases, such as pa·rou·siʹa. A senator called it. I participated in the discussion earlier and listened to the top of the discussion. Secretary of the budget and what. A senator who spoke before. I asked why. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson whether it would be normal to use the pay number rather than the consumer calculus to determine the increases in individual heart beat and this limit of the lower and upper steps. Hv. A senator, by my opinion, said that if it was a pay sheet and if we just looked at some of the past few years, where there is a lot of pay, it would mean an overstimulated personality discount and, as a result, an overexploited financial expenditure. I think it's a pretty good argument. So when I tried to turn them around and wonder: " What if there were excessive inflation, would it be better? I might land in a place similar to where I'm going on in insurance, i.e. that the self - feeding process, the inflation that feeds itself, is an undesirable phenomenon in nature. In this regard, I sense a certain contradiction, which is not so bad. A senator's fault. I find that there is a contradiction in our not always to be experimenting with these numbers, something that I understand well and actually agree, but at the same time, we should not be making an index. Of course, it remains: What can be done? [[The president calls.]] The question I really wanted to ask why. Councilman: What is his view of tying the character discount and these income tax limits to the index number above his head? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u37	President. Thank you. A senator resists. I think it is reasonable that this budget follows the development of a long-term average wage in the country. The reason is primarily that I think, unless the decision is made to change the tax burden in the system, that the relative tax burden of the earnings should be somewhat comparable from year to year taking into account the cost of development. A person in the fifth income, or somewhere in the median income, pays a similar effective tax per cent from year to year if his salary progress is in line with general pay development in the country but does not change specifically. I think it's just a constant tax system. I think we're supposed to be able to assume that in this regard we're not messing with. The play we like to play in the current tax system is about to say that a personal discount has not followed a pay sheet, but just an index of consumer prices means more than an extended period of taxation. Then we can say: Now there has been room to reduce the tax percentage by 1%. But, really, it was an effective tax policy that was increasing all the time because pay was increasing far beyond the price. As a result, the personality discount was much less for the employee. Of course, it's very nice to come as a politician and say that you're paying taxes, but nothing is being reduced, it's just the tax system being adjusted again to the change that has occurred because of this failure. It is true, however, that making a personal discount in the present arrangement is very expensive because a personal discount is available for all employees. I'm basically against it. I don't think high-payers are supposed to have a personal discount, they should just have this character discount made, so it is essentially useful to the lower income groups. This will also make it much easier and cheaper for the state to set it off.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u38	A respectable president. As in so many discussions, I find myself talking about the big problem that is the inflation tendency in Iceland, which is, in my opinion, largely due to the crown. I'm standing here without solutions and without answering the problem. How can we maintain stability in these figures in the law without insurmountable stability? How can we maintain stability in our prices without a currency that offers us a tiny export system? I don't know what to ask. Senator to, but thank him for the answer. This is still a problem to me, this tendency to view the inflation as the natural nature of the economy. The problem, of course, is that in some respects. We are somehow trying to find solutions to avoid that problem, and we like to grasp some sort of index connection, the insurance of the housing bar, or contact with other indicators. That's exactly when this inflation disease comes. A senator noted that we do not view raising things in harmony with prices. I'd like to hear a politician say that he's not reducing his taxes. He's just trying to adjust them to pay development. It'd be funny to hear that sometime.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u39	President. I think we'll agree on that, me and him. A senator, that it would be very good if we had more prices on the foundation and did not always have to be in these price-seizing exercises, which we would so like to get caught in. Of course, it is not possible for things to go up from year to year. We always put it out as a given item here, and we're always paying for it. In economic systems where there is a real standard of living, it does not default for the State to own e.g. To update individual depositors from year to year, let alone look back ten years or then calculate all the soup again. This is largely dependent on the coin, like the oar. A senator came in. Surely we agree that it would be desirable for us to have a suitable and stable coin. We have seen this in our neighboring countries, who live in a much larger and more stable coin - cutting area. It's not the only place in the world where prices are so high. Good enough, for example. To look to our neighbors in the Faeroe Islands, who live in many monotonous economys, far more dependent on fishing roads than we are, and with a Danish crown, and who have spent the rest of our life. They have managed well with their economy, even though the Danish dollar is back attached to the European gangs, for example. There are, in fact, other northern countries. Finns have recorded Euro. Danir has bound herself to euro, and Swedes are actually closely related to the euro as well. All of them with their own method, but all these countries achieve comparable and successful results, that is a much greater price level of eco-efficiency, more gangability, much lower interest level than here. Of course, that is the essence of a matter, something we would like to discuss more.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u40	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to legalize various measures according to the terms of budget 2019, individual income taxes, personality discounts, child support, interest benefits, and insurance costs, from the highest level. Financial and economic ministers. The first chapter begins with child improvement. If you first look at what is in that eye, when the impairment begins. The cutting start immediately at the lowest pension, benefits, and wages, and the lowest pension and minimum wage are below the poverty limits as measured by the current measurement. As noted, the median intake is about 618. so that 309 you can. K. is 50%, and everything that's under there is poverty. Another thing that's a little strange in this is, and I don't know if I'm supposed to say it, that it's like a financial minister is making some kind of birth control, people shouldn't have children if it's under the minimum or in debt or pension, because it's being cut down by 4%, then 6% with two children and 8% with three children. People are being punished for having children. I thought it was the opposite of what we should do, we should award people for having children, but we certainly shouldn't punish them in any way. It's hard to believe that today, at the first dollar, child support has begun to cut off on such a super-low figure. If not for punishment, what is the purpose? If we're talking about the criminal system of today's pensions, it's amazing. It seems that most of them were up to some degree. If a person on the pension decides to go abroad, we cut him off if he decides to take out a union reserve, we cut him down. I've been looking all over, and I feel these kind of impairments everywhere. I've kind of stopped looking for the smaller dogs and started looking for a place where the individuals aren't down. Where are they not attacked by taxes and failings? We know that the same person we're talking about is not going to get fat by 205. K. down payment. Then it is the personal discount. It's kind of a story to the next town that I sent in an inquiry for an increase in character discount, especially with a decrease of 1% below the tax level, from 37 to 36%, which should have cost about 14 billion. What's remarkable is that it would have been returned, according to the Ministry's answer, 5,301k. an increase in character discount. That means "in English, " which means" in English, " 15 stats. K. will make more money for those individuals. But no, it wasn't 15s., it wasn't 10% of the 15 you. or 1,500, no, there were 3% of them, another 500. Peritoneal recovery increased by 533 k. Exactly. We have to figure it out, and it came up during the discussion, that a personal discount should be about 75 points. K. ... fromthewrongcounts. I think it's wrong. Since 1988, when local pay was taken up, pensioners didn't pay taxes. They did not pay taxes, and they lived in a pension fund. And the lowest pay was no tax. But what about those individuals today? I'll let you know. An individual on the lowest level of income that you can possibly have, which is graded in 204,352. From the government Department of Insurance, City of 34,242 K. I'll tax you. There's an increase in tax burden. In this context it can be noted that in the ministry's response, it costs 150 billion to get the tax per cent to about 300 y'all, 300 y'all. will be tax-and-demand. That, of course, is total nonsense. That may cost about 40 to 60 billion at the most. But then I should say back to the top. Secretary of finance: Hey, wait, have you taxed the minimum price of $150 billion in this period? I'm sure it's the highest. Secretary of finance is not ready to accept it. But let's continue with a person with a 204,352k. I'm down. I'm paying you, 34 y'all. K. I'll tax you. He's so lucky he gets 50 of you. K. From a pension fund--no, he gets a 0K. There's impairment. Isn't that tax too? If we take the other examples, of those who have come up to 300 yards. K. What do they get? Yeah, they get 243,075 bucks. The paid amount is 56,925. K. an tax that would have been tax free 30 years ago. The same people would also have received a pension fund, 50 of you. K. - No, it's taken. There's a buck against a dollar's impairment. So this person pays extra by 106 yous. K. for tax and impairment. There is another example that is one of the ugly things that has been going over the system and that still goes on, and there is a dollar against a dollar reduction in micropigity. It has been since January 1, 2017. It's been going on for two years. Older citizens have escaped from this, but such tax is still in the poor. The most important thing is that government funds save close to 20 to 25 billion on it, as a result of increasing tax pay on those who have nothing and barely have food for them. I'm gonna ask you if it's the highest. Secretary of finance is proud of that. Or was it always to make the rich richer and poorer? As we have made it clear, a personal discount is for those who have mentioned among their hands, not just 100% income, but more than 100%. People are getting 80 pounds. paid and that's only half of the person's discount. But does it get the difference back? No. Those on 204. K. Their payback, their character discount, is only 7,75,480% of their income. At the same time, however, individuals with 3 million and perhaps more are receiving the exact same personality discount. So this may make a difference to 3◯5%. That's what we're supposed to change. That's why we should come back to work. We're supposed to stop letting the people on the lowest account and pay their taxes and cut their pensions. The character discount should be raised by about 300 of you. If properly administered, if updated according to the pay sheet and immediately given. Of course, he should not take the full scale, for those on the highest prize have no need for it. I'm telling you that over a year ago, I was in this situation. I was on bail from a pension fund, state insurance agency. I know exactly what I'm talking about. You know, running homes and paying rent and housing is just yours, and I wasn't the worst place in the world. I admire the people who try to survive out there and survive. A person who receives 204. $18.5 you're paid. K. ... rent. We'll see that it doesn't work out. I'm asking you, are we here in some ivory tower? We don't see nothing out of him? We have contact with the people out there, don't we? Why do we let this happen? There is serious shame that at the same time, we do all kinds of nonsense in financial matters; twice the cost of Congress; deny children the medical services they really need; there are no chemotherapy. What's going on? Don't you think we should start jumping up? Don't we need to revise our entire course? Is it not far more important to make sure that people receive medical care, medicine, and can live with dignity than we are on vacation trips ever and ever and spend the money on something that doesn't matter? I think it's time, and we're supposed to join in making sure the people of Iceland, all of them, can live with dignity. All of them. As I say, things are strangely put up, and I say for my part: I couldn't have gone up into this chair like the highest. Secretary of finance will say: "I'm going to be super nice to you and raise the personal discount by an additional 1%. I'm gonna give you the greatest gift of all time, 1%. At the same time, things have all gone up. I was looking at a raise team, everything that's supposed to go up, VOLV, food, everything. I was calculating this, and I didn't have to figure it out for long, so things have just been taken care of by growing out of the population and older, and the rest of the pensions and more. In that case, it is unlikely that we should be talking about 1 percent because we should not talk about it. We're supposed to talk about crowns and pennies and figure out what it costs for people to live and what they're dealing with today's growths. There's a 4% rise in personal discount. There may be a 3% increase in the annual total improvement. That's 6◯7 you're gonna get. K. So, then, why not take into account the cost of all the raises? And let's see the crown stand, let's figure it out. Do you think people will jump up and see in a better time that they can buy something other than rice for dinner? I doubt it. It's a disgrace to us. We are a rich people, and we are under obligation to make sure that all are good, not just chosen.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u41	A respectable president. I would like to give only a few reasons for the emphasis that is presented in this bill that is once again associated with the budget bill. When we have income connections in the reform carts, we are trying to ensure that the limited resources we have from playing return to those most in need. This is true of the improved systems that are discussed in this bill, the growth reform system, the child - saving system, and other systems, such as those in question. A senator mentioned, e.g. Social Security. I don't think it's quite reasonable to adjust the case so that governments are taking people right when we're just discussing reform systems that are designed to improve people's status. We have a child - reform system to help people better. The reductions in that system are merely thought that the limited resources that we have there will spread to those who can claim relief. On the other hand, to call the trinkets, such as the beard. A senator makes, like, an attempt to take right from people, that I really feel like a total misjudgment. That's exactly what we're thinking about getting things done to people. Then there's another debate with a cent across from a dollar in our pension insurance, but it's still linked to the same thing. It set up a system of limited resources to add to existing rights. The minister of the seminary at that time, it is just ten years ago, wanting to improve the position of those with the least of the hands, and to set up this special supply, while living up to the discussion that it is inhumane to have a cent against a coin. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u42	A respectable president. V.E.G. Secretary of finance. Limited funds. I don't agree that this is limited money. There are already more than 20 billion in savings due to a dollar in return to a dollar's decrease. Why don't you give it back? Then income connections, that's not tax, they're kidding. We already have a synonym that was adopted last year on that which was being reduced and taxed, especially drug strength and all kinds of grants. It gives us a clear example of how taking in drug strength and so forth because it meant more expense, a chain - building effect all over the world. We are going to take it off, which, of course, is the first step. That's very good. But these cases are everywhere. It sucks for sick people who can't defend themselves, and I know it for themselves, to have to be looking in the rearview mirror. There'll be some 10 or 15 of you. K. Besides, it goes and does something for them because there is no money and it needs this money to buy medicine or something. But a year later, on the day of impairment, they are taken away. This needs to be paid back to the insurance agency. I say for my part, nobody can understand this and nobody can come close to knowing how humiliating and stupid this is except being in this system, being on the other side, having to pay back. I've had to keep on paying back all my benefits to the government's insurance agency. All back. Every cent for a year. Can you imagine the shit? And if this isn't corrected, I say for my part, "What's wrong with this system, and why don't we want to correct it? "
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u43	A respectable president. I'd like to say what. He is correct in saying that there are some examples of failures in the reformer's systems to leave a natural impulse to survive. It really is a ongoing process. This is not a dead system in the sense that there are people behind it. Their situation is changing constantly. The combination of income development in the country and the circumstances in which families live should be very closely monitored. Here, the special enforcing has been referred to. I think it was a good idea at the start, but it doesn't work today. It is a kind of poverty trap that includes a thank - you program. You're absolutely right. A senator said there are other examples of this. We need to figure out where the perimeter effect is most, where we're going to get the most people to survive. We in the Independence Party have long had the slogan to help people self - help. A system that reduces the will of people to help themselves is a real war against our thinking. I think that's exactly where we agree. There's still work to do. But my comments in the first talk were primarily that we will eventually have to accept the limitations of the funds we have to play.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u44	A respectable president. I agree with the highest. Secretary of finance, Bjarni Benediktsson, in this regard. We should never create a system that is built from killing all the initiatives and the willingness of people to survive. Of course, that's a terrible system. That's why I'm on the social security review team. I hope we can sort things out in this context that people get to work. To forbid people to work is the stupidest thing I've ever experienced, whether people are feeling better or not. If an ordinary worker takes extra work, he is not punished for doing so. No one can think of that. But because it's called disability, pension, or something like that, and a person who is thus paid to increase his income and start working - no, he should first cut down a cent and then other punishments will come on top of it. That's a tax. And 45% decline for the rest of your life. This is the system that we've built, the system I'm going to try to do everything I can to revise it, simplify it, and stop all these punishments. First, try to help people to work, and those who can't work can also live with dignity and don't have to count every cent for every single month and ask themselves, " Do I have drugs, do I get to a doctor, or do I have food? '
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u45	Mr. President. We'll discuss a bill to correct various procedures according to the terms of the budget, i.e. how the tax and reform systems change because of premeditated budgets. V.E.G. A minister did well over what is being done here and what changes are being made. There is a step in this bill to continue in the way of using the tax system to a greater extent than has been done as a remuneration device. This is very positive. This can be shared, as has been shown in the case of many whales. Senators today, whether or not it's a long way enough. It can be discussed back and forth, as well as whether we are using all the space we have to make up for. The other is that we are certainly bound by a financial program that was adopted in spring. The bill is very, very in her spirit. However, there is a tax system change that is a major change from what was being done in a financial program, i.e. we make the decision that instead of reducing the flat income tax charge to the decline, it is most effective for those who have less income, such as the one printed by the bill. Of course, there is room for debate about whether this is large or small or whether it really is relevant or not. However, the rate of increase in income taxes in a person with a million a month, which is just similar to that of most members of the Parliament, is about 55 of you. K. This bill is a year's account. Now I'm not saying that there's something really big, but there's really a step in the right direction, especially when taking into account that the weight decreases on those with the lowest approval. The tea distribution in this regard is certainly heading in the right direction, and as many members of the council have entered, including Many members of the board of directors and, in fact, members of all administrations. We are using the income tax system to a greater extent than ever, and the tax system is usually designed to equal the burden and to give the highest wage to those with the highest salary and the highest income to bear the weight of the burden, and that is well. If I was in charge of all this myself, maybe I'd go a little further. That is not the way it is, but it is indeed a step in the right direction. Senators have come up here and minimized the alteration of child reform, saying, "Yes, it's just fine. But I just want to remind you that increasing the rate of child improvement, for the development of low-cost failures in which annual child improvements are being increased, as shown in the second table here, is about 114 of you. K. This isn't what's called the Anglo - Saxon Change, by permission of a president, or by game change, but it's still a big difference for those involved. It will. Just like a lot of snoozes. Congress officials have entered the divided 100 of yours. K. for them, the pursuit of income is of major importance. That's the way it is, and let's just face it. Therefore, we should not belittle them. We'll raise the pediatrics'resulting at 17% next year, i.e. the contributions of the state that is going to get pedophiles. That is certainly a step in the right direction. As for the housing benefits, we are still aware of the system we've spoken of, and I think all members of the council said that we wanted to get out of, i.e. that the system prefers to focus more on housing support, as if I have recently introduced a talk here at the council, rather than on the fact that the system is primarily these interest improvements that are there today. Of course, we know there are rent payments, but they're not exactly for discussion here. The built - in growth system is that buying homes is an incentive for people, even if they cannot afford it. They may not even receive the support they need for housing, or they may not receive the support they feel they need. We know the Icelandic tenement and how disloyal it can be, etc. There is another incentive for people to get out of their homes, which is understandable. We'll see in the bill that even if there's a plan to raise the interest rate by 400 million next year, we don't really know anything, if real prices continue to rise, next time. It may tell us what the system in the foundation is focusing on the wrong things. I think that most of the people in this room can agree that there are 5 million credits before a person gets cut off, and 8.3 million married couples don't have very high limits of property. I think everyone can agree on that. For a family of five that would have to be minimal, let's say, living in a four - room apartment, 8.3 million are not necessarily extremely high - percent of the total price of the family's holding. As it has been entered here earlier today, the amount of payment remains the same, i.e. You owe just as much or even more of it, say 50 million. K. Real estate, if you have 8 million in it, you owe 42 million and you have to pay interest. If so, the goal may be quite low. That's why I think we should be the highest. As a matter of fact, the secretary of finance was able to eliminate any changes in the housing system. We have started on that journey, as in the general apartments. It has not started as well or as fast as they would like, but it can be done better, and it especially needs to be done better in the affairs of tenants. But I can't wait to discuss this bill at any point. referred to and at 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u46	Mr. President. Increase in interest rates published by the government in this bill is not very much human. Your daughters raise on a yearly basis by 20 points. K. in a person who does about 1,600 bucks. every month; 25 ys. K. in a single parent who makes about 2,000 bucks. in months and 30 weeks. K. has a husband and wife who are about 2,500 years old. per month. This increase is based on an out-of-date interest formula, where the net-mark of the sum will rise by 10% and the sum of the maximum interest costs and interest rates by 5%. I've previously said that this arrangement, which is intended to do, is like throwing water on a goose in the environment that our housing market is today. Iceland, with its largest increase in house prices worldwide, has about 70% in the last five years. At the same time, and more and more people receive interest on house - to - house housing payments, which are up to 50% because of the huge increase in housing prices. I've previously said that the result is simple, subsidies to landlords have been reduced in intensity at the same time as the tax on landlords have soared considerably. V.E.G. The secretary of finance confirmed this in his earlier speech when he noted that this year about a billion less interest offerings were being paid this year. In recent years, growth reformers have dropped significantly. It is not accepted as anything in this bill. It would be fine if a minister could tell us how much he believes that they will grow in ways that will contribute to the growth of these provisions. What matters is, as we know, the limit of limits, i.e. when growth improvements begin to decline. Sadly, the cut off on the stratospheric limits has not been in harmony with prices. In addition, peak interest rates have remained almost the same since 2011. I mentioned earlier in my talk on the budget bill that in 2009 60% of the single owners of real estate grew, but in 2017 this figure was down to 28%. We'll see what the trend has become. It is clear that the decline of the growth process has to be changed. You can't see in this bill that there's such a thing, and it's not reliable, and it can't be based on the calculations of eight-year-old rules. This 5% increase in maximum improvement shows that governments are not aware of the status of the housing market. If there is no change in the rules, this foretold increase in growth is meaningless. I've previously said that the system we live in today is almost ruined and to add money to a ruined system is a bad thing to do. Surely all of us see it and acknowledge it. So we live in a growth reform system that isn't relevant to the housing market status, does not assume higher housing prices and higher interest costs, and everyone sees that such a system is useless. Thus, the growth in interest of this bill is actually an illusion. The problem of housing markets is the lack of open apartments. Tremendous increases in shelter prices in recent years are mainly due to lack of housing. It cannot be seen that the government is dealing with the problem. She is not taking the root of the problem. A small supply means a higher price, as we know it and an increase in growth reforms, which are uncertain to cover one's head, and because of an obsolete algorithm, as I mentioned earlier, there is no increase in the number of apartments on the market. I'm sorry. It would be good for this increase to return there and to those who need it most. There is no way to see the conclusion. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u47	Mr. President. I won't extend this meeting too much, but I'll review some of the important things in my mind. Even now, the largest public income source, or perhaps about a third, is tax paid on the income and profits of individuals. By reassigning a part of the income as a government fund, the government will be operating, if they choose, to support certain groups that, depending on the cases, could be children's families, tenants, or family less income. Of course, the analysis of the impact of this system on the benefit of people has many factors to consider. It's not only the percentage of an answer to income tax that matters but also how the personal discount is set. In addition to this system, there are transfer systems, i.e. child support, interest improvements, and housing. The effect of all of this on the disposition of individuals depends on the complex interaction of many factors. You could list them. prices, pay development, how real estate prices develop, limits of income, property status, and numbers of children and marital status are mentioned, depending on the family situation. If the development of the tax system is to be examined over time, it should be borne in mind that the development of these main sizes, remuneration, prices, and financial resources has rarely remained. This is very detailed in the report of the European Union of Iceland, published in August 2017, entitled "A tax burden of remuneration for wage workers in 1998◯2016, that personality discount has developed in terms of GDP and, as a result, the tax burden of individuals has increased as a result of a reduction in the impact of personality discounts. This quoted report points to the conclusion that the transfer systems are, in many respects, more complex than the same effect. In the absence of a financial limit, the development of remuneration, property prices, or the development of pay, improvement may result in a reduction in support and loss of support. I want to agree with them. Councilmen who have stressed how the growth - saving system is set out to be careful that property restrictions are being adjusted in moderation because people do not have more to work with, even though the real value of their own housing is increasing. I'm going to allow me to refer to the central outcome of this German report. The main conclusions may be that for all income groups, during that period, there is a period of less than 20 years, an 18 - year period, 1998◯2016, tax burden has increased in all income groups and most in the lowest of the income groups. The reports on this are very clear. Privacy has not been accompanied by pay development. This has increased the tax burden of the less pay. Similarly, the support of the growth reform system has been greatly reduced because there have been no increase in financial rates and property prices. The same is true of tenants. In this report, the public argues that the Icelandic child - welfare system is weak and merely reduces the tax burden of single parents and of all the most lucrative couples. During that period, the child - reforming system was further weakened, since tax values lost real value and loss of income. So, overall, the income balance role of the tax system has been reduced. Mr. President. A group of people stress that people with income that cannot provide for their living do not pay taxes on such revenues. The taxing limit is now more than 150. K. and aim to go up to 160. But we are not exactly from the standard that may look to be of public opinion as they publish a staging guide to the Ministry's Web site that is at least But it is well said of me in the fourth hundred thousand, that I should not speak of the lack of housing. I'd like to use this opportunity to announce that a group of people will move before long to the end of a conquistador proposal aimed at leveling tax burden between income groups so that society's rich and poor will become more like what happens and go elsewhere in the North countries and, on the other hand, shielding those who have income below limits to pay their taxes. This proposal will contribute to the transfer of funds within the tax system, which is presented in a lower tax system of underpayable persons and higher in high-payers. This proposal will seek to unwind long - standing trends, such as the one I traced back to Iceland's Allied Association, the development of a tax burden that has moved from income - high to income - low. I would also like to report on this occasion that, based on the calculations available in the preparation of this proposal, the cost of the state funds due to the changes in income taxes that will be made there is not much like the calculations of the Ministry of finance and have been high in the media recently. I don't want to have any more words on this occasion, but I want to finish this by saying that in the overall reexamination that must be carried out on the income tax system through these built-in reform systems, children and particularly in the family relationships. The population in this country is not self-sustained in the sense that population growth reaches the goal needed to keep the nation in place. On that basis, I rely on a well - known calculation that each family has an average of 2.1 children, or children, depending on which sounds better. But we are far from it. So there is good reason to consider these factors closely. Blessings come with each child. Remember that. Remember, too, that each child is welcome and is expected to welcome new Icelanders and support their families. Let us remember that whatever comes from raising children and caring for them costs an enormous amount of money. I know this myself by watching grandchildren. I think it would be very useful to know that in the overall reexamination that must be carried out on this system, children's families would be carefully considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u48	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize the changing of various laws because of the budget for 2019 C.E. This bill suggests a change to several laws in accordance with the requirements of a bill for budgeting. The bill also suggests that changes that are considered necessary to be approved before the year. The details of the bill are of many ways and both impact on the income and the pay side of the budget. I will now discuss some details of the most important things, but the review is not necessarily in the order that is found in the bill. I'm gonna start with a carbon bill. This suggests that the amount of carbon bills will be increased by 10% 2019 and 10% 2020 aimed at turning on carbon dioxide emissions in the atmosphere, consistent with Iceland's policy and commitments in climate change. The main objective of the procedure is to encourage both household and company to reduce emissions by energy exchange and improved energy efficiency. The estimated state funds increase of 10% in carbon costs is 550 million. K. including the side effects on valuable taxes during 2019 and similar sums of money in 2020. Taking into account the increase, the estimated income of a state's budget of less than 6 billion will be in 2019. The effect of this on the index of consumer prices is estimated to be approximately 0.016% for an increase. I also recommend the price of a quarter tax and pay. So the bill suggests a 2.5% rise in these so - called crescent taxes and registrations in accordance with the prices of the bill. Then, according to an estimated 12 months change in the index of consumer prices over 2019, which is 3% in the Economics assessment. However, a greater than 2.5% of Iceland's Summit target is not anticipated. This is a general and special charge for fuel, an oil tax, a general and a special mile tax, a car charge, a fee for the elderly, a special price for the state radio and the price of alcohol and tobacco. This increase is expected to result in a sum of 1.6 billion dollars. every year including the side effects on sumy tax. The effect on the index value of consumer prices is estimated to be 0.06%, but this rate does not affect the index of consumer prices. The bill then contributes to changing the share of monitoring costs according to the legislation on the payment of costs for official financial monitoring. These changes reflect a targeted check account of a total of 2,330 billion. K. The total budget of the UN is expected to be 2,429.8 billion. K. and other income 41.2 billion. K. It is thus assumed that the total budget of the Agency will be 58.6 billion. K. and will be brought to the drop of the Agency's own money. The changes taken into account by the Management Board's management plan are expected not to affect the survival of a trust fund. It is also suggested that the cost of the debt's agent's operation be 0.00835%, which is reduced from this year on. The Act on Payment stipulates taking into account the management or management losses of the agent's activities in making a decision on the amount of pay for the next calendar year. The innuendo income of the cost is estimated to be 283.9 billion. K. next year. The budget of the elderly and radio fees under the bill is given a 2.5% rise, all in accordance with the prices of the budget managers. According to this, the price will be 11,454 k. to each currency during the pressures of public pay in 2018 due to earnings in 2018. It is estimated that the increase will bring up a total of 64 billion. a few extra revenues a year. At the same time, it is assumed that a special price for State Radio will be raised from 17,100 dollars. of 17,500. ... tothepropriation of the bill's prices. Estimated additional revenues of the increase, except for about 115 million. K. every year. Next, the cost of nursing and the expense of domestics. Here a new provision is proposed on temporary matters in the law of the elderly. Is it to prevent the increase in the cost of domestic activities in nursing homes and nursing homes from being removed from the spouse's income? It is also suggested that temporary legal requirements be extended. As a result, money must be protected from the elderly's management fund to cover the cost of nursing by the year 2019. If the bill is legal, the government budget will increase by 895 billion. K. from what other things would have been. The combination of disability pay on social security and pension funds is next. The bill suggests an extension of temporary arrangements to help prevent the cross-over between the social security disability and the temporaryity of pensions next year. It is then assumed that the amount of cash paid on the job market for microenergy donors to calculate income insurance and home remuneration will be the same in 2019 and this year. Free income is now 1,315.200. every year equivalent to 109,600 k. per month. If it is not extended, the default limit for biofuels from employment will decline to 300,000 dollars. This year, which will lead to a reduction in improvements in the energy and rehabilitation of all-employees who have their employment income across this range. Undivided provisions had dropped by 1 billion dollars. in 2019 C.E. There is an extension of temporary legal requirements for job reimbursement and the work of remuneration funds and insurance laws requiring that employment reimbursement funds do not receive income from a common insurance fee in 2019. A similar law has been applied for 2013 in the year 2011,2018. However, the current budget remains to be estimated from the employment drivers and pension funds, i.e. 0.10%. At the same time, it is assumed that an agreement between financial and economic ministers and social and equality minister will be made between the same ones and the work programme will be adjusted in agreement and that in 2019 the state fund of reimbursed funds will be set up for financial contributions. Then the bill suggests that the commitment of the state funds in the year 2019 to the National Church, under the official agreement of the United States and the National Church, will increase by 41.7 million. K. from budgets for 2018 At the same time, the contribution of the State Fund to the Christian Fund is expected to increase by 900,000. in 2019 C.E. The cost of fixed charges is expected to increase from 931 k. per month according to current law at 934 K. Before 2019 C.E. The law's contribution to the parishes of the Church and other religions usually changes according to an estimated change in the average taxation product of individuals 16 years of age and older, as well as an increasing number of individuals. Now, as in 2018, the budget is now being set, with a change in the terms of parish pay expected to stipulate the budget. The budget bill expects a total of 3.303.2 billion. K. The contribution to the terms of application fees should be taken into account in terms of the general requirements on the terms of the bill, accounting for the total increase in parish pay from budget 2018, of which 47.1 million. K. The bill assumes that the amount of emissions due to an increase in the amount of waste related emissions will be increased by 627 k. of 1,256K. consistent with the change in the average price of emissions in the EEA area as it is in a year period ending on July 31 of the previous year. Based on the proposed price of 2018, there is a valuation effect of 1◯2 billion. K. It also suggests that there will be a variety of tax numbers that carry or should carry a posting fee. These are the strain on oil, black oil, and bicycles. Next, I will mention a particular abnormality necessary in the bill that will take place from the legal requirements of public finances. Under the law, ministers should be placed at least every three years before the General Report, which assess the likely development of community, employment, environmental and demographic issues for the next decades and their impact on survival, economic status, and the commitment of public bodies. Unchanged, the report should have appeared before the end of this year, 2018, but since the execution of the law on January 1, 2016, it has not provided enough advice to complete the preparation required by such a report. This is to think that this decades of food is being taken for the first time. A bill in the bill I recommend here assumes that there will be an exception to the Minister's obligation to submit to the General Report on Community Development and its impact on public finances. Thus, the report will be submitted for the first time by the end of the next year. Finally, drinking charge is expected to be based on the information presented in the alcoholic product package and the government granted permission to measure the alcohol consumption if they believe that packaging information is incorrect. The basis for these changes in the law can be determined by the head taxation committee in the decision No. 116/2015. It stated that the pressures of alcohol charge should be addressed to information on the alcohol consumption of alcoholic products that were shown in the Witnesses of the product when an importer could make such proof, but according to the decision's decision, a customs manager had considered it proper to consider alcohol charge in all cases in the packaging of the product. The assessment of the impact of the bill on revenues, prices, and commercial resources is thus based on a wide range of proposals made by the bill, the effects are also in a wide range of ways on revenues, prices, and commercial power. The estimated state funds increase of 10% in carbon costs is 550 million. K. including the side effects I've been tracking here. The effect on the index is estimated to be approximately 0.016% for an increase. The increase in radio costs and the production fund of the elderly is 179 million, but these costs do not affect prices. The price of a dollar's increase on alcohol, tobacco, fuel, and automobile costs increases the income of the state budget by 1.6 billion dollars. These increases will inevitably have a small effect on the index price. These effects are estimated to be 0.06%. In terms of the price of centenarians'prices, it is to be considered that without such evaporation, the government's legal fees fall to real value and, over time, it also reduces the relevant income markets for the state. They do not keep them in line. These are stocks of income as presented here, which are based on a specific dollar number, in contrast to e.g. capital tax, income tax, value tax, and other such income stocks which are a certain proportion of the relevant tax product. Therefore, it is a very long tradition that the budget guarantees that such a centenarian stock will move up to the level of prices. Yet, in recent years the government has not allowed such subsidies, or we should say tax collectors, to raise accordingly to the price. In recent years, we've let them take their place, and then they've brought down the real thing, you might say. This time, it is recommended that they keep up with GDP. I notice that in discussions about the budget and related matters, people think of this as a tax raise. Of course, you can argue that the tax is rising; the income is growing, but it only increases in prices from year to year. Fortunately, in recent years, we have managed to restrain the use of prices, i.e. In Iceland, in recent years, inflation has been low. I also made a very clear in my own time when the State's requirement was not to lead in national and national GDP and from a few years ago, by the end of 2013, if I recall correctly, the government issued a declaration that we would not have these specified tax institutions, these subsidies, raise beyond the prices of the Federal Bank. That is what we have been doing since then, and this is exactly the result of an increase in the inflation target. It can be said that by applying that policy in the long run, the State can better support the inflation target rather than raise the prices in the country to higher prices. It was a small improvement at the end of my history that has to do with the effects of developing these inflation effects. I suggest, most respected president, that the bill will be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. at the end of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u49	A respectable president. I notice that on this bill, as has previously been done, there are a wide range of preliminary rules being extended. Several, actually. This includes e.g. on the related insurance policy of pension rights, on social aid laws and social security legislation. I wanted to ask the highest. Secretary of finance how the situation would be to find these things something permanent. Then, in particular, I would like to mention the 14th provisional rules in the social security laws, which discuss the number of microgouts that are very important because it is heavenly in relation to what is in the permanent article of the law itself. A few times I've got mail from anxious microbeans who worry that it's not going to be overrun. I can't quite remember the numbers, but it's more than 300 you've got. K. The law, it reminds me, and it's 1.3 million on the provisional measure. So this is an overwhelming difference. This, of course, is a result of all sorts of adjustments made here and there. I understand exactly why this happens, but it's a little harder for me to understand why it lasts so long, why it can't be fixed. We proposed a new arrangement at one time to make one of the provisions there permanent, but because we are in a smaller section, it was taken in votes without logical support or explanations. That's why I wanted to go to the highest. The secretary of finance after explanations, whether or not there will be a time when these provisional regulations, apparently not to be turned into the permanent part of the law, which does not need to be extended all the time. If the answer is that there is a complete perspective on that matter, I would like to know what the situation on that job is.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u50	A respectable president. I think each one of these decisions needs to be considered. There are different explanations behind each of them, why we have had to extend this provisional situation. I think we can say, however, that in no case is it likely that we will allow our temporary rules to take place so that people will remain in a worse position. This has usually been linked to an overall review of the relevant laws. In the meantime, provisional regulations have prevented them from entering their course. The rights of the provisional regulations usually should be entered into some larger system change. This is what I think I can present as a general explanation for why we're stuck with this. It has just been delayed, for example, to complete a review of the social security legislation on the pension rights of micro-lifers. Still, that work is at hand. The interaction process may also be an example. We have many more of these. I can agree with that with what. A senator that this may create an unpleasant uncertainty for many.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u51	A respectable president. I really appreciate it. The secretary of finance here says that we wouldn't let this kind of thing go away, which will make up the commercial market for the calculation of income insurance from over a million to 300 thousand. It's a good and blessed thing, and I myself don't expect anything else to be done as a member of Congress, and I've had quite an experience in being a member of Congress. However, the experience with the superior authorities that takes into consideration their needs is not in the case of an invalid. On the contrary, they have experience with the state's lack of understanding and even outright wickedness. It's the experience of many people I'm talking to, which I don't think is the case, but I understand that people experience it that way because this system can be a scary monster by time, maybe even most or at least often. I also appreciate that when these things are taken into consideration, people want to see an overall view of the law. But can we not do both? Can we not at least extend these preliminary provisions some of their time so that they are only valid until work is finished and until this complete vision is complete? So can we not just make them permanent until that work is done? I don't see anything wrong with that either. I need the argument against accepting our proposal at the time, to fix this properly. This uncertainty does not have to be present in my opinion. I assure you, there would be no legal consequences to doing this. And I don't see that it doesn't change the cost or change the timing of a job where a new perspective would be worked. I'd like to know if it's the highest. A minister is open to extend these provisions for a longer period of time so that the people who live with what they experience as a treacherous, radical system can sleep only slowly over these specific matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u52	A respectable president. I have to agree with this basic thought. Senator. It would in itself be no harm if they were either permanent or long - term legalized. It does not always have to be one - year - old. This could result in many things that could be won. They buy time all the time. There's no chance of winning this kind of thing. I just have to agree with that. But maybe it's not all in my hands, how it plays. These are often rights on the subject of different advisers, in this case in the Ministry of Health. But that's a good point.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u53	Madam President. I'd like to ask the highest question. Secretary of finance to the effect of the changes presented here on different peoples. Of course, it is obvious to anyone who reads this suggestion that all of these changes have a very different effect on different groups, but I would like to reflect on the other side of the gender and the coherence. Of course, I realize that the financial laws such as this have the same effect as they might be would be a more natural question about the budget, but the effects of the changes here are somehow so tangible and visible. V.E.G. A minister slightly introduced the potential impact of individual articles earlier, but I would like to ask a minister if it would not be desirable to know how different the effects of the bills, especially the budget and this bill we address here, e.g. on the sexes. Go over it with your shades on it. And the result is also, that this information could be brought down as soon as the bill arrives to the council so that the council could be guided in its discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u54	A respectable president. Yes, we've been placed in the law of a sensory fictitious fund. I can say with what. A senator that it is very desirable to be able to identify before providing bills for a panel of potential effects on the sex status, when appropriate, and after events of structural development. However, I believe the bill we have here today has extremely limited effect. Just this bill has very little effect on the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u55	Madam President. Thank you very much. The secretary of finance for the answer and rejoices that he agrees with me that it is important that this effect be evaluated and established. On the other hand, I'm just going to disagree that the bill has little effect, the changes we're discussing here. I'll point, for example. in what I'm going to discuss, in fact, about the rise in carbon money. I think it is quite obvious that this rise will have a different impact on the population of the country, especially those living in areas where there are no infrastructure, e.g. for electric cars and for some reason, it is difficult to use such devices for long distances and such. In fact, I'm saying that later I'm celebrating the raise. This does not change the fact that it is important that this information is available, i.e. about the different effects of our decisions. This may not be a direct question, but I just want to encourage the highest. Secretary of finance to promote such information, at least at work with the Senate budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u56	A respectable president. Yes, we can discuss this in particular later, but it is true that there is no or no small effect, and there is a need to consider. With that particular price, there may be two things that I think matter. On the other hand, the change we make at the rate of 10 next year is in the overall context of how much the fuel cylinder will not cost. She shouldn't change the situation very much. However, it is important in another context because it follows a second increase, and an additional increase is offered later. However, the other context, based in context, is also something that needs to be considered. I have found it interesting that there have actually been quite different opinions about how such currency affects the area of the country and its capital, or those living in the capital area. There I refer to the fact that most of us have led ourselves to believe that those who lived in the country would drive more miles. Since then, there has been relatively recent evidence that this may be the very opposite. That there is more in the car here in the capital area in general than on average in the country. It's important for us to dig deeper into this, at least so that we can see what it's like on a regular basis, though it will never be true of everyone involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u57	Madam President. We'll discuss some legal modifications because of the budget of 2019. One of them is environmental and resource taxes law, No. 129/2009, with subsequent changes. These are suggested, as a means of understanding, all kinds of changes, but especially would I like to look at and discuss an increase in carbon money. As mentioned in the bill and the highest. The minister of finance introduced the above to a 10% increase in carbon pay in 2019 and about 10% in 2020. The government's climate program aims for the unsanctioned use of traditional fossil fuels in 2030. All of this is the best, our problem today that in order to achieve the objectives of the Paris Convention and avoid high fines, we need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions annually by 40% by 2030. That would be the most embarrassing thing to say, so that I don't speak strong, and even unfaithful, and most importantly, as if I came into the past, expensive if the ideal country of Iceland did not reach the appointed targets of the Paris Conference. To achieve that goal, the most obvious effort is to reduce the use of fossil fuels, mainly in transport and fishing fleets. So it is normal to look for ways to encourage consumers and companies to choose eco-friendly technologies and ecological energy. Electric cars are an obvious solution, and especially suitable in urban society, but there must also be other methods, such as assessments, hydrogens, and, of course, the structure of public transport, which are even more important. In this context, I cannot resist the temptation to mention the success of Akureyri City. There, in the bus, oil is collected from companies and individuals and recycled in biodisil, and our fishing fleet uses some of our French oil only to be environmentally active. In addition to North power Corp, relief stations have been set up around the town. collects the metals from the old dumps and sells to make use of metal cars. All of this is exemplary, and I encourage the assembly to study what has been going on there. I come up to say what's going on in the bill's report that taxation of carbon dioxide emissions is an incentive to improve energy efficiency and to use clean energy. As I have entered the platform in the past, we Icelanders are under obligation because of the extraordinary position we are in to be exemplary when it comes to climate matters. If something is, we might go a little further, but, of course, with the premonition to be expected as such, as we might have a little bit further into the answers in the past, in some places, it is still a fact that the technical solutions are not good enough to travel more distances. There it is the structure of the infrastructure that really matters. Madam President. Finally, I want to remind you how important it is that along with that change, you will continue to increase funding for building structures for environmentally friendly cars, such as electric cars, all over the country to make them real resources for most residents of the country. We must ensure that it is in the budget of 2019.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u58	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for a fine speech. I think we'll agree on a lot of things when it comes to the issues. A senator came in here. I cannot resist the temptation that I have come here, even though I have not asked the word for it, to take special note of what was mentioned about the bus. I find it very interesting, and there are many studies on the effect of being free in the bus, how much it affects bus attendance, whether it matters more than the rates, or how much priority is in traffic, etc. I agree with what. A senator needs to examine all of this, for example. modeled in Akureyri But I kept silent just to have said it because I couldn't hear better than that. A senator said that in the 2030 C.E., cars that went on traditional fossil fuels would be illegal. I'd say there's a miscommunication, because what's found in the Action Programme is that the new registration of such cars will be illegal. It's not that it's going to be a criminal - it's actually just for the council fair - moving such cars from January 1, 2030, to be said.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u59	Madam President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Sir Óttarsson Kolbeinn Proppér for pointing to my misdeeds, for of course, it had become new registrations. It may have been quite optimistic to think that such cars would have been banned in Iceland in the late 2030's. But I think it is certainly a worthwhile goal for new registrations to stop in 2030 and celebrate it. But because of him. A senator mentioned the public transportation as one of the experiences in Akureyri that there has been an increase in the use of the bus, i.e. More people take advantage of public transportation than did, showing the natural importance of building good public transportation. I think we all here have experience in going abroad and being in a big city where you don't even think about taking a cab, let alone driving yourself, because it's so easy and cheap to use public transportation. I hope that a world of Congress will talk about it and suggest that it contributes to building public transportation in the country. Sadly, there is still a lack of money, though the Akureyris do well.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u60	A respectable president. I wasn't going to use my second answer to that. A senator came into public transportation in general, I can't stand it. I so wholeheartedly agree with each other's comments. A senator earlier, and actually another man's words. A senator who spoke in the council's work today about these matters. There is little more important in this urban town we live in in the capital area than in our public transportation. We are all here to gather together, and it is extremely important to work on the fuel supply of the cars that drive through the streets of the capital area. However, it is equally important to reduce the number of cars or, at least, make sure that the number of cars does not increase as much as they do today. Remember, until the year 2040 C.E., the capital population is expected to increase about 70 thousand. If their use of cars becomes like our modern use of cars, everyone will see what the traffic will be like, how huge a mechanic will need to handle all those cars. It's in the best interests of everyone to advance public transportation. The city line is our best, and we are to gather and work for it, and that is also the advantage of those who are not going to use public transportation, since there will be fewer cars on the streets of the city. I trust that, and all I've heard is that there's a lot of sense inside of promoting public transportation and getting the city line project going well. This can be started relatively quickly, although the entire project will certainly take longer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u61	Madam President. What a blessing it would be if we always agreed with what we were doing! In fact, we're very often. [[Up front.]] It's still such an important discussion. I'm not gonna belittle this discussion by making jokes. How vital it is that we senators take hold of the climate talk and seek and dare to look to the future! Of course, this difficult decision means motivation, both positive and negative, to achieve those goals. But the fact is, if we look at the world and other lands, we cannot really complain. As I said in my previous conversation, it's kind of embarrassing if we couldn't do this, as long as we go around the world and brag about how well we're doing. I think the key is just like that. A senator mentioned in answer to his public transportation, and that is the change of energy. But there are also other important tasks, and we have discussed here. But I think number one, two and three is that we're not afraid to discuss these matters, think outside the box, find the best possible solutions for Iceland, and, hopefully, influence the world and even add heavy weights to the scales when it comes to climate change.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u62	A respectable president. I'm next inclined to say that I'm not going to extend this discussion, but usually, when you say so, there's a length of discussion, so I'm going to do it. I am very happy that carbon bills are rising by this 10% of 2019 and then again 2020. It's like the highest. The secretary of finance covered the financial budget of about 550 million each year each year, some of which are over a billion in total. That's fine. It's easy to find joy in this. V.E.G. Secretary of finance also noted that the income of the state's budget of carbon will be around 6 billion 2019. It is easy to rejoice that regardless of how much we want to say, we are taxing or accepting a price, conduct that will affect the future of all of us and our children. It's very important, I think, that the price is taken from those of which this behavior applies. Of course, all of us do so in some way. We probably all pay carbon bills in some sense, at least indirectly. However, it is ironic to place such taxes on such charges, which are that government funds will then depend on these types of income when it comes to reducing emissions, to reduce the problem. That's a problem of the highest order. As a matter of fact, the secretary of finance has been discussing before - there is nothing new about people thinking about this - i.e. that when success is achieved in the seminary, the income of the state's funds is gathered and the health system is affected, as it is sometimes called, in such cases. If this is not considered in the fine book, it is good. However, this is not a particularly strong argument against raising carbon charges or using this method, provided people are aware of this in advance and are prepared to respond when the positive changes occur, as is happening in the case of electric cars. Authorities are well aware that electrical vehicles are going to increase. They are well - aware that this means that the state's income from fuel costs and the like will decrease and respond. It's just a political issue of the day. It's okay that it is this way, as I say, as long as the authorities are aware of it and are willing to respond and the politicians are able to handle it. In total irresponsibility, I'm going to throw in a reminder of one thing, I'm not going to start reasoning about it. But I always think it's kind of funny to read when something like alcohol and tobacco money is raised, because I think it's kind of funny how much fun it is to be intending to object. Who would think of protesting that? Not me. I'm not saying I'm protesting, I'm just mentioning what it would be funny if someone would object. Only about the social security I went through with the highest. Secretary of finance earlier. Here's the length of preliminary rules that concern the situation of disability, and what I think is the most memorable part of the industry's income on calculating - I don't remember the end of the sentence - income insurance. There's 300 up in the law. K. but these are for temporary reasons 1.3 million, some for the holiday. It's a lot less to have one of those perks. This is a provision, one that was, of course, set in its own time for a good reason, and we have been extending it ever since. I'm not going to repeat everything that happened here between me and the highest. Secretary of finance, but let it do it enough to say that I think that we should just put these principles in the main part of the law and change them when they have been worked to solve the problems these temporary solutions are intended to meet. Otherwise, I refer to my total at the highest. Secretary of finance earlier. When I read this bill, my blood always boils a little bit because, lately, it always contains a law on what is named according to the Constitution of the European Lutheran Church. I don't particularly agree with that church, I basically disagree with her philosophically, but it's all good, I don't have to agree with all the better-looking philosophy and religious organizations in this country. On the other hand, I am deeply irritated by the fact that in Iceland it is probably considered public religion, no matter what religion it is, or by public atheism. I think it's just as crazy. I just can't help it when the spirit comes over me. - Good question. [[Up front.]] Maybe we'll talk about it later. Senator. Good question. All of them willing to discuss that matter. I'd like to mention it here, just in order to have a word of it, that this church meeting that was done at the time with the church is something that must be revised. That we're upreaching a law here that I haven't completely figured out the impact in the big context, it reminds me that this abnormal situation exists, that we have a public religion and a state church, and again and again, regardless of what religion it is, and whatever church it is. It doesn't matter. I wouldn't feel any better about the institution that I myself am registered to being the official religious or biological organization of the state of Iceland. I don't think it would be as bad. I mention this mainly in order to have the news that I have certainly worked hard to push as much into it as possible. Other than that, I'm going to discuss the main topic of the next bill in a discussion about it, though it has to do with this bill too; that is the so - called price update, better known as an increase.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u63	Madam President. This bill shows that it should always be a government fund that encourages an increase in the index value of consumer prices. I'd especially like to go to the carbon, which means a lot of money. In 2019 C.E., the cost is estimated to be 5.9 billion. Between years of increase is 550 million, as observed in the highest range. Secretary of finance. These are the growing tax returns to the public car owner and, especially, those living in the region where the use of electric vehicles is very limited. Not to be overlooked is the fact that not everyone can afford to buy an electric vehicle and not all can afford it. Paying back the worst price to pay is the income - share group that cannot afford to get a new one that would cut off. V.E.G. Environment Minister has acknowledged that the results of the carbon account are difficult to measure. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson said earlier he was happy about the price. I wonder, " Can we rejoice in a fee that is recognized as having difficulty evaluating the results? ' The rise in carbon charge means an increase in the index of consumer prices. As we know, most of the households' loans are linked to that index. The bill shows that the rate should rise by 10% next year and then again by 10% in 2020. And it's the increase that's already shown up. What we need to know is what the total increase in carbon money is on the total budget of the households. It would be very good if it were the highest. A financial minister might evaluate the domestic composition of the rise in carbon pay in particular. Then you ask yourself, " Isn't it taxing the most subsidized group that seems to be being assigned to another part of the financial bill? ' It's carbon disposal to shovel a canal. Advancing into a ditch in wetlands is a carbon binding. As I said, shoveling the canal is also carbon emissions, and it is not an electric trench that mars into the canal. Let's say the highest. Environment Minister lets a shovel into a ditch. There may be many cubic meters of canals. But at the same time, it may be expected that the highest. Transporter or agricultural Ministers allow ditches and many cubic feet of canals. Then the question is: Is it possible that there are more canals than shut down in Iceland's carbon equation? It would be good for that information to calm down. I think there's a need for them. We get sticks in Paris for shoveling into a canal, and that sounds good, but we must not forget that a new canal is the most decomposing and most of its emissions are also there. I'm sorry, it seems, more or less unsearched. All the perspective on their status is missing. I feel that it is a non-resistance in the state's affairs to post such sums without fully knowing the results and whether such measures are actually being carried out at the same time. So on top of all of this, it's clear that there are certain kinds of wrongs in the carbon account. According to news from the EEA, sulphur dioxide is the most expensive of all, and while carbon costs are under strain, the most efficient fuel is not being found to be the most efficient of Icelanders. It has, for example. It is said that a new fishing vessel in the Icelandic fishing fleet uses black oil. There has been little discussion, but it is important to the government that car owners pay when the car is started. Madam President. Sadly, the carbon equations are more or less unpredicted. In that case, it is not good to tax the public in this way. There is no perspective on the state of the cases, as I mentioned, and in the light of this I think the price is far too high.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u64	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for an interesting speech. I have to admit that I can't turn out the data here and now that show that this approach works like this and other methods work gay. However, it is very important to me that when some action or conduct inevitably affects our planet and our children's future, it should be more expensive to do so. Hv. A senator asks, for example. how this works, the overall impact on the household expenses, which is a valid question. I'd say, if the effect is strong, there must be something in connection with the fact that there will be more attendance at something than what will release greenhouse gases when it's available on a different level. It's very important that it is. Not that people are seriously affected, but the threat that we face, climate change, is of such a magnitude that we all have to sacrifice something. All of them. Yeah, everybody. This is not fair because we are not in a reasonable situation. According to this, I am all one ear for every better way to achieve this purpose, because I didn't hear a word of speech at any time. A senator who indicated that he had doubts about his goal. Surely, all of us must work together toward the goal that works best. My question to why. A member of the council says: If the carbon bill has birth and is strong enough to address someone's financial situation, does it not say that it itself has an amount of capacity to reduce some of the emissions of greenhouse gases?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u65	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I will not belittle the natural problem that confronts us today in the world, just as it is very important that the nations of the world come together in this regard. Hv. paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Isleusun asked a environmental minister for this price what it paid. His answer is that we do not have the answers to the effective price already to fight this waste. So here are the uncertainty factors that I think are very important for further investigation. We saw in the news recently that Kate is releasing some carbon dioxide. So there are a lot of variables in this that we don't know about. I'm not against this price as such, but I think it's too high and the increases are way too sharp and heavy and it affects homes, index prices, etc. I'm sure it makes it possible for some people who can afford it to go to electric cars, etc., but not all who can afford it. These are vehicles that are not suitable for all, such as agriculture, and the region where you drive longer distances and relief stations are not always available. There are a number of factors involved that need to be considered more closely that my mind knows so that it can be said conclusively that it is working. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u66	A respectable president. I have full respect for more research and for better data that help us reach our goal. I also know well that when people are very busy with a problem, sometimes it is only too soon to justify solutions that do not solve the problem. When asked why it uses this solution, it covers up what the problem is without explaining how the solution solves the problem. I respect the fact that we may have to do a lot of research and take a good look at it all, but it's not just about people who can afford it, who now have a fuel truck, can switch over to an electrical vehicle. It's about that whenever we burn it, it's supposed to cost a little more because it costs more, not us now, but our future children. That is what we need to pay now to try to minimize the effects of future events. This is not simply about changing cars but about making the benefits of burning oil more expensive than those that do not. Electric cars are not the only solution. I realize there's a lot of people in the situation that they need a fuel truck and they just have to pay a little more. However, more priorities may be needed when the car is being used, making more priorities for how it uses what it has to burn fossil fuels. This has far greater implications than the fact that people switch into electric cars. It's natural and there's no solution to the climate problem, I know it well, and most of the people in this room. It's not much of a question, I'm just saying that if anything. A senator or someone else has a solution other than this, which they think works better, I'm all an ear. But I have not heard any convincing evidence to support the fact that this should not work, as high prices in general do. [[The president calls.]] They generally work in such a way that people buy less things if they raise in price. I don't know exactly why this shouldn't work as if with other things that are rising in price and demand will then shrink. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u67	Madam President. Thank you. A senator responds to his interesting inputs when he comes in just because we may be too hasty when it comes to this payment because we do not know exactly what it will bring. That is a very interesting point for the senator. I think it's worth taking a closer look. That's exactly what I've been talking about here. This has an effect on the index, we're done. These are significant increases. It's like the index, there's uncertainty, there's a margin margin of error in the index. This margin of error can study billions, from 5 to 15 billion, reminds me overall, as we look at homes debt of some 1,700 billion. This aggression pays the public. That is an injustice. Then you ask yourself: " If there's some error in these measurements, if we're too hasty for this payment, would it be reasonable for the public to pay it in the form of a higher index? I don't think so. I feel that this is part of this discussion that really matters. But I reiterate what I said earlier, not reducing the pressures of the world's environment, and the nations need to agree on effective means of working against it. But the answers we have received from the highest. Environment Ministers suggest that it is not quite clear how successful the cost is in this struggle. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u68	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir For the talk, the Birgir of Þórarinsson would like to continue talking to him about the carbon price, but his talk was mostly about it. Hv. A senator is concerned that the effects of carbon pay are not well - founded. It may not have been carefully charted in certain Icelandic contexts or such, but we would like to know at least how important it is to avoid doing anything in trying to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Like what? paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson came in earlier we can't afford to do anything, it's totally clear. To my knowledge, these cases are fully investigated, at least in terms of the context of emissions and climate impacts, quite well known. There is also the fact that most of the emissions, the part of the emissions that we can actually affect, i.e. For as the destroyers, and as the inhabitants of this land, so is this portion of the whole land, i.e. The use of oil vehicles In case of a moment. A senator has another better way to master it in some way. I think he should tell us, because we haven't heard of it. The senator may be correct in saying that this may have different effects, depending on where people live in the country, but it is an independent problem to solve.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u69	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. He specifically asked me if I had other roads. I'm not an expert on these matters, and I'm not going to point out other ways in it, that is, the experts are primarily bringing the solutions and how best to work on them. But from my point of view, this issue is in a way that the public sees that we are paying taxes, a considerable amount of taxes, in order to achieve certain goals. It turns out that it is not clear whether this price will result in them. Therefore, more research is needed. It is mainly my case here that there must be conclusively available that the taxation this has the desired results. It has been observed, as I have said before, that Environment Minister can't clearly say that this will yield the desired results. That's a worry. Granted, there is also concern over the threat of the natural problem we see over and over again as a result of climate change. That is why it needs to be fully examined. I have no better ways. It's not my job to bring them. It's mostly with the experts. I certainly hope that there will be a price to prove. But at least The price should not be this high while it is not well enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u70	Madam President. I thank the senator for the answer. What I think we're talking about is a question that can never be answered. Whether a person buying an electrical vehicle was buying it is not possible to answer because the carbon account was raised or because the carbon - based discussion made him or she was concerned about pollution and thus affect the climate. If the discussion about this is to have an effect, and if the feelings and conversations we create in the community by means of this, the effect of more people buying electric cars, more switching to bicycles, public cars, etc., that's good, really what we're trying to do. However, it can never be measured directly, not unless you simply asked all those buying an electrical vehicle whether they bought an electrical vehicle because the carbon paid for it was raised. I don't know if anyone's gone to that job. But there's a problem. Senator, that there is already a significant increase in the registration of electrical cars and motor vehicle contacts, and this is beyond expectations. The fishing fleet has been very effective in removing carbon emissions, and the public is clearly responding. But I reiterate what I said earlier that no one can know exactly why. On the other hand, I am absolutely convinced that while anyone continues to sow skeptics that this has real results, it will damage them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u71	Madam President. I make it clear that I'm not seeing any skeptics. Hv. A senator knows that the Environment Minister has given the answer so that the price could not be clearly demonstrated. There is no question about it. These are just facts that have been presented in an inquiry to the Environment Minister. I thought why. A senator a little misdirected the discussion when he spoke of electrical cars and why people buy electric cars. In my mind, the most important thing about the price is, as it is now the effect on the increase in index, the impact it has on raising homes, loans to homes, mortgages, etc. That's important. A senator, if we're adding a fee to the public, which raises the index, a price that is not known whether or not it will return what is required. Hv. A senator must understand the context of this. It is proper to think that what really matters in this bill is an increase in the pay and the effects it has in the homes of the country. That's a very serious question we need to lie over and get answers. Then, in turn, it is quite another matter to find other solutions that are important, which are being done by the experts. Once again, I would like to reimburse me in the presence of such uncertainty. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u72	Madam President. This is definitely the hottest case today, the carbon bill, and I'll take it a few words, except for a few things I'm going to take over here. That's exactly what's been said here that I turned a query to the highest level. Environment Minister on the effectiveness of carbon costs, how much greenhouse gas emissions have been reduced in the country since its decision, and how the results are measured and measured. By permission of a president, the answer is hardly clear to say that it is difficult to accurately assess the results of the cost. No precise measurements were now asked. The big picture is not even available. When asked how much carbon money has reduced the use of vehicles each year since the price was first submitted, it says, with the permission of a president: The result of accurate figures in these materials is being added, in general, to the evaluation of the effectiveness of action in climate change. There is no point in saying that higher prices will reduce use. It's not been asked about it, everyone knows, of course, here is asking much more. Third, the question is, How will the rate of the expected rise in carbon account increase by 10% per year for the next two years? The answer remains, by permission of presidents: ▪ Its likely effect has not been evaluated, as measured by the reduction of emissions from other sources. There is an improvement in projections on the development of emissions and assessments of the effectiveness of action on the EEA. Madam President. What we have here is that governments follow a policy that they have no idea of how it works. This policy hides this even In particular, in the context of our discussion, people, especially users, are being put on heavy loads. In particular, it has been reported that the population of the urban population is affected in the urban area, which is less than that of city dwellers using electrical vehicles. They have no chance of using a record that is not sold outside the capital area unless there may be one pump in Akureyri. It's a little more than saying, to set this price in this way. Then we will see clearly in a report that has been traced from a different source. Congress that this price should be returned to 550 million, the current additional fee, this new 10% increase in cost. It also states that this is thought to be a cause, as it is called, an increase of 0.05 percent. Then you ask about effects on the interest paid by mortgages; they are somewhere between 1,500 and2,000 billion, probably nearly 2,000. A simple calculation reveals that these additional incomes, which the state's fund is about 550 million, have the sidework, Madam President, that there are new demands on the homes of this country over a billion and that credit institutions are acquired by it, because the government is following some course that it does not know what the effect is, new demands on the homes of up to $1 billion. The difference between partners in this subject is that homes are completely defenseless from the effects of the carbon account. First, they can pay when they take gasoline and all of it, but then they can cope with the raising of the head seat on loans and the gain of money. But financial institutions are in a very different situation. They have come to have legal demands on the homes, and all the eaters, and all the equipment, and the courts, and what may be known is the bond of financial institutions, and all the resources have been used by them and are behind them in collecting these requirements set up by carbon pay. Now, Madam President, the carbon bill is just part of a whole. There are a number of other fees that are put on that have a high value value level. It just so happens that it's relatively small and easy to talk about, because it's money that I assume many people understand easily. But then you can think of the effects of such elevations as those listed here to make a recommendation on alcohol and tobacco. They have exactly the same impact on prices as in households, bringing the natural systems of this heaven's shipment, new legal requirements, and the difference alone that these demands are much higher in sums, much higher. This is the situation that humans have been allowed to live in here. This is one of the cohesive insurance systems that has very large supporters at the General. At the same time, there are those here who have sought to handle this problem. I'll tell you what I did yesterday for the bill on changing the growth and insurance law, which is delivered by all the members of the Gang and the Central Party, including This is taken into account and stipulates the failure of this kind of effect to the value of housing loans. I'm also going to mention in relation to the carbon bill that I have a question here for the financial and economic secretary on carbon bills. I expect much of his answer. It is, in fact, there. asked about the principal objective of the government with the stress of carbon charge, this is in one eight teams, and so is the question, so let me mention, to what counter-improvement measures have been taken to protect the homes from negative effects on the payment burden and the head chair loans due to the stress of carbon costs. Then I'm going to step aside, Madam President. I'm going to have permission to cut down my foot in a few places, the time that is dosed will not allow more than normal. Here's a suggestion that temporary VIIs be expedient in the law of the elderly. This operation is the result of its continuing authorization that part of this fund will be used for management, but as you know, this fund was originally set up in a way that would allow it to be used for performance and maintenance. Thus, in this so - called national fund, a wave fund has been given that he should have a work to do with the living arrangements of the elderly, but it is hardly necessary to set up a fund for that purpose, Madam President, we have here the elderly's budget and that all we need is that men ask for a proposal like this one, which we now have in front of us to extend the authority to use the funds for business. If it were just decided that this money would be used for construction and maintenance, then naturalism would be completely different in the care of the elderly, especially if this body had been taken earlier. I allow you to mention that men can expect a bill on this subject that will have the goal of making the funds of the elderly in the way that was established for the fund. Similarly, in this context, I remind all the people of the country more and less, of course, within certain dates, paying for this fund every year, and it is absolutely impossible, but when they are older, they are happy to have adequate housing for the elderly. Madam President. Here is a chapter entitled Pronunciation to the National Church and the Christian Fund. I just want to say one thing about this, reminds you that the National Church has a special protection in the Republic of Iceland's constitution. I allow myself to trust, Madam President, that the decisions presented here and in the affairs of the church are in good agreement with the church authorities. Then I'll come to a posting fee. I can be brief about that because of what I'm saying. paritaprevir The serf Birgir of Þórarinsson was very thorough in his speech on the black oil, with theoretical accuracy. I want to agree, Madam President, with every word that came out of his mouth on this scene. Black oil is naturally highly polluted, and it is not good to think that there are even new ships in the fishing fleet that use black oil because it may be the cheapest option. Here men have the recycling fees that can be used today when they are awakened to awareness of environmental pollution and other such factors. I simply allow myself to encourage this process of processing to be set so that even the use of black oil will be removed, but otherwise it will be in absolute minimum. I've finished my case, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u73	Madam President. I'm going to school now. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Ottar's son Proppér from earlier, when he saw reason to come to a pin and correct a man. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Flanders the daughter of Elíasdóttir because she had misjudged one fact or one number. That's what happened. paritaprevir Ísleifsson Isafasunsson earlier said that the rates of carbon - tax prices were half a percent or 0.05%. That's not true. Senators. It's a serious problem when people here are taking action here in the halls of Generalis in order to sow skeptic seeds in the minds of people as to what carbon pay really means, to not be able to handle numbers correctly. The report with the bill makes it perfectly clear that the estimated increase in the index price of consumption by carbon account is 0.016%, there are 160 cents per million in the country's debt. I'm not making it down, but there's the sky and the ocean between it and saying it like a sledgehammer. A senator came in earlier that it was about a billion dollars in their homes' debt. Well, there'll be 320 million in it. There's a lot of money and there's a lot of it, but that's 1/3 of it. A senator insisted.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u74	Madam President. It's just that I have to say that there's something odd I don't know what I'm talking about. I think I saw it in the budget bill that this number was pronounced 0.05%. I thought I had a safe land when I quoted the budget so that I could do so. A senator just needs to explain more about where he has his numbers. I'm holding my numbers until I've been shown that there's something else in the budget. Maybe it doesn't matter to everyone. If that's the number I thought I'd seen in the budget bill, the additional amount of money that goes on top of the house is about a billion. If that's what it's supposed to be. A senator claims to be 300 million. So is the work of a man. Same ones are the side effects. What is involved in my case is not mainly the exact amount of dollars and change in this, but I have shown that this is just one example of payment, we have a number of remunerations that have a corresponding impact, that there are the side effects of borrowing the mortgages, whether it's an apartment loan or other loans that are inflatable, also the loans of which are inflatable. I prove by this presentation that the person's situation is complete, that one must endure the increase, no murmuring, and without giving a hand to his head, while the other person has legal requirements in his home. And we'll see what has happened to the homes. It was for photographing on duty party dog. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son as no defender was shocked by the collapse of her home. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We saw it in the answers to the highest. Minister of Justice to a recent request from me that there were 10,000 families driven out of their homes, at least 30 thousand. [[Up front.]] I'm just gonna let myself hope for a moment. A senator does not take that information lightly, as could be understood in his words. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u75	The president encourages you. Councilmen to respect the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u76	A respectable president. Here we discuss a bill to legalize the changing of various laws because of budgeting for 2019. On page 18. 12 of the bill's report, Number 6, 2. mg/m2 as follows: The estimated state funds raise of 10% carbon costs is 550 billion. K. including side effects on value taxes. The effect of this on the index of consumer prices is assessed by an increase of 0.016%. I think it's pretty clear, and actually it came to the highest level. Secretary of finance entered this number in its earlier number. I told them earlier that, of course, it was a lot of money; 320 million ain't little money. It is money that answers at a national level of ten small apartments. It's full. But the overall effect on every single currency, up to 160 k. in the million, in an effort to change eating habits so that this country can remain in this country for the next 100 to 230,200 years - I am not going to start making taxes. A senator's question of whether or not is more important.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u77	Madam President. This whole hearing thing. A senator is somewhere between pathetic and contemptible. The important thing here is that this effect is there. If I misread any number somewhere, I shall not be able to correct it. [[Up front.]] - Well, I just haven't seen it and I need a lot more secure sources than that. A senator to help me see that. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u78	Just doing the best. Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u79	I just want to reiterate what I've said. There's a lot of serious shit going on here. It's that this type of taxation involves these side effects and should be correct at least calling for counterweight measures, but of course, so that the system that puts these side effects on the public in the country, home, and employment companies is tailored to the lack of these effects. I hear what you're saying. A senator can handle the matter no further than to have a gig of giggle in the halls when these cases arise. Icelandic homes have long recognized that in this fine rush. A senator is not a permanent body, not at the least, nor is he protected from the perils of the homes because of the arrangement we live in. But that has not been the case. A senator speaking for the continuation of this system. I'm kind of offended how it happened. A senator allows himself to appear here. I make a fact that it is urgent that these side effects be eliminated, and I have allowed myself to point out here in my speech that in the case of carbon pay, this side effect occurs because of a policy that the government has no idea what the effect is, and even if so. A senator does not realize that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u80	A respectable president. I'm not about to put this on long numbers. I'm only going to see the thoughts that have come to mind today of listening to the fine discussions that have been made. I'd like to start by saying right away that I won't be happy. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson by resisting an increase in alcohol charge. I welcome the increase, whatever may suffer the potential side effects it costs may have and can be disputed. It was a pleasure to listen to members of the council talking about the city line. There was much loneliness and harmony in the language. This harmony has prevailed today regarding this campaign in public transportation, and it gives you reason to be optimistic. It must be noted, though, that in a financial sense, there is no great effort in the city line. There are 161 million in public transport in general, and nothing particularly about the city line. There's been some debate before me, and even with a passion for carbon pay and an increase in it. I don't share that vision. paritaprevir Ólafur, Ísleifsson of Isun, says that the amount of carbon paid is largely high homes. Also, I do not share the vision that has been wooded here, and I have sometimes heard that carbon tax is a special national tax. It's like the highest. In fact, a minister of finance noted in his speech has found evidence that people in the capital area and in densely populated areas drive more than people in scattered areas and spend more in gasoline. It has been presented as a kind of poor tax, that people cannot afford to switch to electric cars, and so forth, and there have been some doubts about the fact that this city is paying themselves. I don't share their doubts, and I want to let myself call them numbers. We cannot speak of ourselves specifically as Icelanders, capitalists, inhabitants of the land, or members of any particular group in this particular situation - we stand as inhabitants of the world face the greatest threat mankind has ever faced. We need to deal with her. It is earth's future. With all due respect to the influence on index calculations, I don't think that makes it possible for me to make similar interests. It is such a terrible danger that the human race has become so dangerous that I feel that it is most impervious to the general problems that may confront us during our daily lives, without my wanting to demean it. I don't think my numbers are relevant here. You can hear about it, too, and you can see here today, the gases that Kate currently releases. I don't know exactly what the point is with, what's being said. Are they saying we should just give up? So it's so much that we should just stop thinking about it and drive our oil cars singing off the precipice? Is that what they're saying? Or, then, is this report just as evidence that it is time for us to do something radical about it just as if this should further motivate us to do it? I declare that it is disappointing. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson is here to be spoken as if he likes the church donations more than pollution taxes, without any intention of completely screwing up contributions to the church. But I feel like it's gonna show. A senator does not realize or refuse to face up to what is at stake. We all have to lie down on one thing in this matter. I'd like to, before I finish my case, to address only the radio fee that's also being discussed. This is an increase in the pay for radio and government funds at 115 million. Recently, the highest was introduced. The education and cultural minister of Alfreðsdóttir Alfreddddóttir was planning to reduce the activities of The Kingdom Radio on a commercial market and was told that it would reduce the income of the State Radio by 560 billion. K. In this context, when she was introducing these plans, she spoke to the highest degree. Minister for improving the damage done to the State Radio. She says, with President's permission, in an interview with Bertle Bergljót, Baldursdóttir of The Kingdom Radio, that I remind you of the twelfth of this month: We want the Kingdom Radio strong, and the loss of their income - we'll find a new channel. However, she is not ready, when it is rather handled during the interview, to work out exactly how it will be done. We see that this is not the way it is done, that this damage will be improved by the increase in radio rate.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u81	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech is excellent. He offered a certain dance, I heard. I'm now a man of dance and my dance card is rarely empty. However, I had one little space, and I wanted to talk only to him about the Kingdom Radio that I know is for both of us. Hv. A senator spoke of losing income as a change in the rules of state radio advertising and quoting the highest level of interviews. Secretary of education and culture. True, these figures do not match. So that's not the way to go, to the highest level. The Minister of Education referred to it. Yet, she has said that these suggestions will be further reported. Then I'll just wait to see who they'll be. But I'd like to ask you why. A senator is only involved in the change in advertising of the State Radio. There's, like, a croissant. A senator, something about 500 million, if I recall this correctly, estimated that income will be impaired, with less costs, limits at commercial time, etc. How do you like it? The senator's suggestions? Does he think that the amount of money the Kingdom News collects today through advertising is the perfect state of the Kingdom News so that it is the income that needs to be considered? If advertising income decreases, is there a need to increase elsewhere? [[The president calls.]] Or does he have any other opinion about the State TV and advertising?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u82	Thank you. A senator resists. 560 million is the number discussed in this regard. It's a little complicated and it's really big. My vision of The State Radio is that it would be best for us to have government radios that would be like we know from the North, who are not commercialized, that we have an institution that was otherwise financed, and by no means an option. I don't feel comfortable with the fact that The Kingdom News is offering its agenda to the public and to serve the public. However, the adverts have pointed out, and many object to these plans because they fear that they will lose a lot of access to citizens of the United Kingdom and that there will be no other access to it, there is no medium equal to the State Radio on reaching the public with information and advertisements. They have also noted that there may be some knowledge in the film and advertising business that may be upset and that this may lead to some undesirable consequences in this regard. About a question why. The senator's answer is, yes, I believe the state radio needs to get this amount. [[The president calls.]] As shown in the case of the highest. Minister's up to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u83	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. We agree on much and even more. The fact that it's a bit complicated. I've felt that one Mass was worth more than taking note of the role we have in the state radio, how we see its role in Icelandic society. I reiterate that I believe that its object is very important and that it has a very important role and that it stands as a guard for the State Radio. Exactly what the mixture should be between advertising revenues, a contribution that comes from the government, and then subscriptions, which are taken only by all the people of the country who have reached a certain age, I feel that it is worth a seat and a look at. There also hangs on the stick of the business, what is to be replaced with the money. Whatever it is. There's something I've been thinking about in the North. Then there is reason to consider how business management is being prepared. Is he all in business? Are there any different stations? Does TV have anything to do with radio? And that's how you might keep asking. You're right. A senator brings up the advertisements. Well, I guess. We've made up here a stately commercial buyer, reaching out to all the people of the country. I have put it into practice that maybe you should use the position that has been created here to sell the advertisements and show them, but maybe you should do something other than the state radio all you want to enjoy. Because we've put it in this position. [[The president calls.]] Again: This is all hanging from my knowledge that we define exactly how we view the role of the Kingdom Hall as a cultural agency.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u84	A respectable president. We're gonna go for a second. A senator shares a passion for the State Radio and a view of this institution, I think. From 1930 onward, we both see it as a guide in Icelandic culture. This is an institution that has an enormously important history that we need to look out for and show respect as soon as it is to be a living civilization that is reflected not only for its national status but also for the very best of the country; for news that is reliable and true and correct; and for a conversation that is objectively upbuilding to look for the true and correct. How the system should be exactly at the National Radio income level, others are better off than I can figure it out. [[Up front.]] I'm sure that's what I'm gonna do. A senator is far better qualified to find out than ever I do. And there are no sacred cows to me in that regard. The State Radio Advertising Department is certainly not a holy cow to me. She's not a pink elephant to me, either. They need to be found out, but the main thing is that we live decently in this institution, we stop becoming hostile to it, as is common, and we live in a good and dignified way, that it and that it will be added to and added to the damage. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u85	Madam President. Before I bring up the main subject of my case here, I just want to mention, for the sake of which. The senator to me earlier, that there was really nothing in what I thought was a hand attached. So it seems to me that it was more of a fictitious tradition now. Hv. Of course, members of the Parliament are free to take a light bed when there is a clear answer on the part of the environmental minister that he and his Ministry do not have a clear view of the influence of a certain policy of government that is being followed. Hv. Councilmen are also quite free to let themselves be relieved of certain aspects of government policy that can have a negative impact on their country's homes and businesses. That's why. Of course, members of the council are free and have no comment on this on my part. Well, I would have thought that it would be safe to refer to the laws of the Constitution, which are well known and addressed to the special protection it provides to the Icelandic Church without significant comments, but I shall have no more comment on it. Reasons for me to quote here on the bill for the budget of 2019, on page 24. 113, Mr. President, it says that there is a planned increase of 10% in carbon costs at the beginning of 2019, etc. It is estimated that this plan will increase the income of the state budget by about 550 million dollars. Then, according to five or six lines down to information, changes in fuel taxes lead to a buildup of $3.3 (U.S.), etc. gas prices on a litre. The effect on the index value of consumer prices is estimated to be 0.05% for increase. Well, it's no problem for me to know that this figure is about changing fuel taxes, not just the carbon tax. They just got right in here. But I reiterate and stress that this point does not change the language I had here regarding the harmful effects on the interests of the households that are occurring because when government funds come up with increased income, they say about necessary matters, or because they are pursuing goals such as developing in climates, these effects are at hand. They have been weighed down in the homes and commercial businesses of the country. These are facts, of course, and they differ greatly in the minds of individuals. There's nothing to see. To me, they weigh very heavily, others can have a different view of them, and they are perfectly unuttered on my part.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u86	A respectable president. I have to say, I've listened with some attention to the language of a man. paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Is remnant, and with ever greater attention as he grows. I have to say, I think there's a lot of strange things about how I'm doing it. A senator approaches this matter. Hv. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son went here to answer, numbered it. paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Ishunus has had the wrong number, twice in his case, admit that it would be an effect, but there was a difference between 300 million and one billion. Hv. paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Ishundus was standing here in a pit, and it got out of him like he was in a radio session on a radio story, how small a brasper was in his head. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson for the homes of the country, and I don't know what or what. When all that had happened, it was noted that there was a possibility of being wrong and that when we are discussing these matters, we were right. Now it's all gone. Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Ishunus returned here in a plow and, yes, admitted that the figure was wrong. But, hey. A senator continues to suggest that this may seem of no importance to others, despite repeated sentences. His names, Ólafur, the Þór of Gunnarsson, were true to this matter. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator should take the step further, not just confessing that the figure was wrong, but simply apologizing for how he responded to this suggestion. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u87	Mr. President. I don't know what's going on with this. It must be possible for each individual to be free out of the sense that he seems to be allowed to interpret in the case given. From my point of view, it is of utmost importance that we live in an arrangement where government tax policy can influence without being expected or that it is part of the policy of government. To me, this is a very difficult thing to do. I've said that it can weigh something easier for others, and I have nothing special to add. I haven't noticed. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson made use of any special vase for the homes when it comes to this harmful effect, but for a long time man will try. He may later agree on the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u88	A respectable president. Yes, I reiterate what I started earlier, the longer as the compromise was. So a senator gets more interesting and peculiar to me. It's okay to apologize. Even if we confess that we may have run into a race, we will be no less. To me, we become even more people. Perhaps if we have fought hard, we have overreacted, and along the way, we may be able to suggest something better for discussion in this council hall, or why. Senator. We can agree to tell the facts, the correct facts, how the issues we are dealing with here on our community. It has been reviewed by some, though, that there are certainly a number of members of the Parliament who are affected. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson pointed out. V.E.G. The minister of finance came into it in his speech. There has been a number, and all that happened was that it was shown to be a wrong number. But instead, there are indications of that kindness, since correct figures are important, e.g. In economics, which I thought was what. A senator knew quite much better than I do, is responding by being his nose, beinglittled. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson - he is not much of a paper when it comes to fighting for the interests of his homes. This is not an acceptable hearing, a respectable president. This session is not a good sign if we can't just talk things out here, accept a clue from each other's maturity as to what it is supposed to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u89	Mr. President. I just don't have any options for it. Senator, he's clearly a very skin wound and it's just the way it is. I don't have anything especially to add. I would now like to contribute to the well - being of a conversational tradition. I may not be entirely sure that the first man I would look for would be fine. A senator, but I'm sure he can do much good there. I think we can agree that any careful and responsible discussion is what can lead us forward. I think we can agree on this, and we are determined to do so as the need arises.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u90	Mr. President. We're discussing here, as we've actually seen before, a bill for changing laws due to budgets for 2019. It's even here. Talk about the carbon charge. Senators have no doubt observed. It is quite clear to me that this charge is one of the instruments established by the government, and indeed the government throughout Western Europe, in an effort to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, to reduce the use of fossil fuels, which I in my ignorance considered to be a general agreement. That would be what you had to do, at least while we don't have a better one. By its application, we have actually seen a decline in emissions. We have seen an increase in vehicles driven by electricity or other energy sources rather than by carbon. Then you might think that we were on the right track. It has been observed here during the discussion, and it has been noted in the past that the rise in the carbon account affects the index of consumer prices, and, of course, it is true. We have the index of consumer prices. It is used as a measure of much in Icelandic society. Those of the council who fear that I will never, or have never taken up the glove or thick for those on whom this same index number bites, I direct it to them to look at the Constitution signed. You see, I'm one of the members of Congress who's exactly brought up a matter of taking certain elements out of the index because it would be unfair to have them in there to form alcohol and tobacco. Who is fair that when only between 12% and 15%, after a measure, the Icelanders use tobacco, all 85% of them should be raised each time tobacco rises? There is no fairness in that. I hope some senators think it's worth something to know that other senators, including me, have at some point pointed to these facts. You see, I'm not a special guardian of the index. I'm no special guardian of the insurance policy. I've never been. It does, however, require that this be the arrangement we have. We've been discussing the budget and now various financial arrangements. As I came into my case earlier, it is unfortunate that the measures we take here will affect the index price and the last one of the people will belittle the increases that occur in the household's loans as a result. But how important it is that we handle the facts correctly and are not setting up these increases for some political purpose or in promoting some of the issues we are making here at the council! It doesn't help the cause at all. It's much better to treat things the way they are. Yes, the index of consumer prices does not have a particularly good effect on loans, at least not in times of inflation. That's it. That's what we know. Happily, we have begun to take steps to reduce the impact of insurance on loans, and we could certainly go further than that, while we're stuck in the policy that everyone has to have the home in which they live, we want to do as many people as possible to buy housing in some way, at least the methodology that has been developed in connection with the insurance policy, even though paying an individual's load is distributed in equal and in some way has enabled people to secure their housing. I don't want to say, because there's a very small figure in 80 to 90 percent of the committed property, which is insured loans each year, unless the loan is much shorter. This knows what it's about. Senators, we can go over it. I'd like to reiterate that the carbon bill is an essential element of handling the problems we face in the future. As many senators have entered them, so is public transportation. That is why there is a 3.4 billion contribution to the public transport of the budget, which we are not here, a very important step. Yes, indeed, we can say that 160 million. K. Between years of increase is not particularly high, but, nevertheless, we're taking steps. The rural population is taking a step, and it has been observed here today that Akureyri has taken a very important step in that matter and should be delighted. We all have to look into these issues in context, and I think that the road we're going on here, primarily that the prices of the elevations from year to year, but that's just a little bit up to the carbon tax, that's the meanest way we can go in the system we're in, and then we're going to do it. But it's right to keep it in place, chief. Secretary of finance, because I also said that in a discussion about budgets in recent years and duets, about the provisional provision of the elderly, i.e. taking part of the elderly's income fund to pay rent, I don't like it very much.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u91	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a law of law No. 88/1991 on the extra revenues of the state funds, with subsequent changes. The bill presents a general price update at nearly all the legal fees, but most of them have remained unchanged in the budget since 2010. The fees found in the law are varied. They include first legal fees, such as contracts and visas, contracts for any kind of employment license, various certicates, contracts, passports and driver's licenses, etc. The bill suggests that most expenditures will be updated to the final end of the year compared with the estimated index price of consumer consumption in December 2018. However, increases in charges last raised at the beginning of 2018 are not suggested or were recorded for the first time in that year. A respectable president. Clearly, it would be better to arrange an increase in the pay in a different way so that they would increase in the frequency of events if at any other level were available to keep them in the prices and in a more regular way than they had been, unless the policy has been met to reduce the value of time and to look more closely to other revenues. But, if not every year, likely, the rate for such charges will develop in some context of the country's prices, the future will be less adjusted than at least every three years. Then the question can be asked whether the charges should be corrected for the development of an index price or to any other item, e.g. pay is largely paid, which is not far beyond the cost. The assessment of the impact of the bill is as follows: The price of renewal according to the bill will take into account the change in index consumer prices from the last change in the individual budget to the estimated December 1 2018. Again, most of these charges have remained unaltered since 2010, but since then the index number has increased by less than 30%. Then the index of pay has increased by and above 70% at the same time. The prices are estimated to increase the income of the state's budget by 500 million. K. This will result in a 0.01% change in the index value of consumption. To this end, a respectable president, I suggest that the bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u92	Mr. President. I didn't mean to extend the discussion to unnecessary needs. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. This was shown in the case of the highest. Minister that these charges have not been raised, so most of them at all, since 2010. I think that the main reason why these charges were not very much raised in 20103/42013 was that people wanted to keep up with the system that could affect the index number at that time, I suspect that people wanted to keep up because of it. But the highest. The minister then discussed how it would be better to have this, whether it would be better to do it at certain times. I ask them if there is any progress in working at his Ministry, or whether it is of interest on his part to set up employment in his Ministry to get these matters involved in the chance that the charges will be raised on a regular basis so that, as at the present time, they don't need to be brought up every 83/410 years. It seems to be very high.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u93	A respectable president. I've recommended earlier this morning another bill to legalize the changing of various laws because of the budget for 2019 C.E. There we were discussing carbon bills; general price collections of centennial bills and taxes; payments due to financial costs; payments on the charge of an agent of debt; nursing funds; and the cost of domestics; and so on. It is clear that we are largely included in the laws of a centenarian budget, which we are in general raising or, as is true in the bill that is in our discussion today, have been passed on from year to year. I don't know what to say in an effort to answer clearly and respond to a question. Senator, if I think it's reasonable to say there's some kind of automation involved. I think I have to say just as it is that I'm generally not fond of automatic tax or payback. There is no way that the State's cost of carrying out a certain service is growing. Consider, for example, a Senate fee, just to name one. Now we're here at the council a bill that electricalize advises, where a synopsis can occur almost by clicking on a few buttons on a keyboard. This alters the nature of the ministry and thus the cost of the State to provide it. We need to keep an eye on how much economics can be involved in the Kingdom's bringing technology into their ranks. That alone can affect the way you look at the progress in individual matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u94	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I can, in part, say that we should not be self-important in reimbursement or reimbursement, perhaps especially because we have elevations directly affecting the index. I refer to a discussion that took place earlier today on that subject. Nevertheless, when these years of rising, they run, as shown in the bill, in isolated cases at tens of thousands. Usually this is some form of permit, judicial fees, or such. It may be difficult to meet when the charges raise so much in a short period of time, and there may be a measure of unreasonableness in the overcoming these ups with such wide gaps. As in this case, it may take up to eight years between the elevations, and perhaps in this regard, I wonder if any part of them should simply follow this or that some kind of system would be put on, let's say, in the Ministry of State. Ministers where these matters are then, as the minister himself entered earlier, automatically, clocking between two and three years apart.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u95	A respectable president. I think it's a discussion that matters that we take, that we're just wondering if we're possible to cause discomfort by taking it in these jumps. Maybe it's supposed to be a matter of my own interest, a minister of finance for the Independence Party, when a left - green senator comes up here and asks if there's not enough of the good in return for a single step. So I'm just gonna let myself take a light stroke here at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-18-6.u96	A respectable president. As a matter of fact, I'm going to keep a brief talk about what we've been discussing earlier today in a discussion about other matters, what is why. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson called insurgent in Iceland. I'm not going to disagree with this case, anyway, so far. We'll see what comes out of a committee. But I find it interesting that this is called a price update. It's not necessarily a false subject, it's certainly a price update. But this too is an increase. There is an overwhelming tendency in Iceland to say that something is not being raised when it is being introduced to prices. But, of course, there is an increase. If people have to pay more money for something, it's a higher price. I remember all this from childhood when a company like the Bus, or whatever it was called, raised the price and called it not an increase, but was putting it together in terms of prices. It's not a new story. This is actually the common thing, and now I don't remember where I heard it, good if not in the very bad. The Economic and Business Committee, that half of the employees in Iceland who decide will not be considered worthy, when they raise prices to a value value level, that they are raising prices. Half them. I understand that politicians who are moved to volunteer something like this, like the highest. Secretary of the economy, would like to come to his argument as soon as possible and therefore call the matter a merit update. I don't think anything dishonest about it, I would have done exactly the same thing myself, to find out right away what the evidence was behind this rise. But that's an increase anyway. I think we should talk about this as an increase. Let's take security housing loans that have been discussed in the past several times because they are major in the Icelandic economy and are probably the object the common citizen knows best about what has to do with a direct indicator number. Do people say that the ossuary increases when it comes to inflation? Does anyone complain, saying, "Oh, my dick, my loan has been adjusted according to the index? " No. People say, "My luck has gone up. " That's what happens, though it's tied to an index. Although the loan is being raised in the way of something else, it is still being raised. I've been thinking a little bit about today, because we've been discussing these related issues, how we can get cured of this so-called inflation disease, which is to view inflation which is actually for granted, i.e. Rather, take steps that are in accordance with inflation for granted. In a certain way, in my mind, inflation is a self - righteous thing as long as it is not great. But the fact that things follow inflation is not necessarily normal. Maybe sometimes, but not always. Now no one proposes, so I've heard that charges like this will be directly attached to an index. At one time, pay was tied to the index, and it was canceled. The reason for such actions is generally not popular is that they also create problems. Not only are the problems associated with the prices of the mortgages but they also question the value of things, in fact, take away the possibility of gaining a sense of merit. Now I don't know exactly how hard science is behind this, or how it can be examined in scientific terms, but I'm on the other side of the belief that there is a particularly big problem in Iceland and probably always was, since we picked up money over heads, how hard it is to form some sense of what a normal price is for a particular product and service. This has the effect, at least on me and on most of the people I've talked to about this, that when a product is available and you hear it, you just get to buy the product. It's not too much to wonder if it's too much or not. Not as much as I do when I go abroad, first of all, it's a much larger market and a more healthy competition in many areas. In Iceland, you get used to the fact that there is no permanent sense of price, e.g. That a hamburger should cost 1,200 bucks. If the hamburger costs 1,400 bucks. If I don't feel anything about hearing it. I'll just buy the hamburger and eat it. Probably not even look at the receipt. But if I'm somewhere else, I'm aware, 8 bucks for a hamburger or something, I don't know, and if I hear $10, I think it's too much, I'll find something, I'll get some sense of the price. I'd like to mean that Icelanders don't get caught because they're used to inflation, used to inflation, and viewed it as a natural thing. Consider it normal for things to increase to the rhythm of inflation. In other words, the consumer agrees somewhat with this half of the cost - raisers and claims that they are not raising the price in a certain way. I just wanted to talk about it, especially because we've been discussing related subjects today. This bill is just a symptom of it when it is inevitable the fact that prices need to be updated in terms of prices over time. I'm not saying we should stop, but I think it's good to look at what happens if we stop. What would that look like? That's all I wanted to come to, a respectable president. As I say, I will not take a stand on the matter until, first of all, when it comes from a committee and puts it here.
