ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u1	The president's attention is what. All council members say that today, March 23, is the day of the north. Norwegian societies everywhere in the North countries celebrate the day of the festival, attract the flag, and encourage the flag of the northern countries to flaunt the flag. As a result, the Arctic flag is now emblazoned here at the entrance of the General House. The Northland Day is celebrated annually in that March 23, 1962, helsingfors was signed. The treaty can refer to the Constitution of the Northern countries as the cornerstone of the cooperation of the states that is crystallined in the Northern Council. The treaty ensures equal access to study and work anywhere in the North countries. Then we can assume that for today the Norwegian Society and the Norwegian house represent a program in the Norwegian house.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u2	By letter, dated March 20, 2018, the president has requested this, according to the 8th number of 1st. 13th par. Congress, with the Commission and Control Committee that it deals with the following reports: National Relations Research and the Office of Iceland's emissary Office, National Child Protection Status, Iceland's Hospital Security as Buying Health Services, and finally a report on the Eastern Health Organization.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u3	Three letters have been sent by the travel, industrial, and innovation secretary where you request an invitation to give written answers to the inquiries on the deck. Three hundred eighty-five, about the ministers' cars, and about the captains of the chariots, from Björn the Sæmundsson of Gunnarsson. 431, for the personnel of the institutions of the seminaries minister, for the Seystein Þorsteinn of Sæmunds, and for the covers. 367, for a battery of electric cars, from the Guðmundur of Ingi, Kristinsson. A letter has also been received from the social and equality minister where request is made to provide a written answer to a covering query. 319, on pay pay due to death and death to parents from Andrés Ingi Jónsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u4	Mr. President. Yesterday's Congress provided an important insight into the cooperation of the three groups that are in the government. Two things are in my mind the highest in that relationship. In question class, I asked the highest. Prime Minister, if you could trust that her government would protect the uninhabited areas of the high West. That's not a yes, Mr. President. According to this, there will be released loose bulldozers and bets on vG, which will play great waters and falls and other natural bulbs, according to the EEA's opinion. This is the price VG pays for participation in the government. On the other hand, Mr. President, independents were allowed to agree that their team of colleagues respected the Vetergis view of the election age that they obviously care about. The chief leaders of the Independence Party's team stood forward; president of the leading party, Supreme Court. Prime Minister, and vice president of the other party, supreme. Minister of education, as well as other dignitaries of these categories. Many people must be thinking after the events of yesterday. To think of Mr. President, the ancient saying: There may always be another ship and another entourage.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u5	V.E.G. President. I'm going to discuss it here. V.E.G. The Minister of Justice has said that there is a need to review the arrangements and consider limiting the amount of money, time of cards, and extra checkups. I've already expressed myself about these matters in this talk chair and presented a bill related to this. Today, some 900 boxes are running and rolling at billions. Iceland is the only country in the world where boxes are out of casinos, no limits, no surveillance, the use of cash in many countries. It's coming even. ... inthe bill I have submitted for a total law where such activity is submitted to a single roof with a special permit from a minister and under organized supervision. Such boxes, like other parts of the world, may be collected in just one place, and surveillance will increase in this way and pass on the special features of this material. In addition, compulsive gamblers are expected to live under a reserve that does not exist today, which assists compulsive gamblers. Such a fund is necessary. It is well established in the bill on the arrangements for this material so that addicts can be closed, provided for them for help, and to get into such places with the need to show identification and age limit to 21 years. It's primarily a caution issue, this bill. Besides, this changes activities on the surface, which are illegal gambling clubs that thrive today, where more money is played and under no supervision and where there is no legal protection from players. [[The president calls.]] It is time, most respected president, to handle these matters and look to the front line and set total laws on the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u6	A respectable president. Yesterday was amazing. The radical socialist regime led by the Catherines of Katrín's Jakobsdóttir received 32 votes with its irresponsible and selfless financial policies. Officials of sustainable and responsible financial policy received 16 votes with their proposal. It was lost yesterday, but the day will come when members of the government will be reassigned to a greater part of this room. One of the last things that happened. In the fall of the year before I went to the fire and had ajoke, I interviewed at a TV station and spoke of a financial bill being then at the top of the world. Secretary of finance, the best financial minister in the history of Iceland, the Jóhannesson of Benedikt, at the highest. President, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. It was nice to see how well and unconcerned the same argument as the highest. At that time, the president gave up his case. During the conversation yesterday, he rose from members of the Independence Party. It was nice to see it. Clearly, they are quick to learn. Last night, however, the battle was not in vain. At the very least, it can be said that when the Independence Party takes this society into a pit, they cannot say that everyone in the car told them to step in.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u7	V.E.G. President. March 23rd is the day of the Northland. So it was a pleasure to come to work this morning and see a beautiful flag town hovering in front of the Armada, the northern flag of its all its glory. For that reason, I would like to have a few words about the translation of the Norwegian cooperation for us Icelanders. Since there is a small country in Iceland, cooperation at the National Council is of great importance to Iceland, thus providing no other form of cooperation with international standards. We are united in other northern countries in the main challenges and opinions of the international environment. Thus, the North countries often speak in one voice, e.g. When it comes to security, climate, and equality. The northern nations also share a common view of fundamental values, such as the importance of human rights, democracy and the legal state, and the peaceful solution to issues. The Northern Council is a European Parliamentary site in official Norwegian cooperation, and many of the rights common in the Northern countries are rooted in the Northern Council. It was founded in 1952, with 87 members of the Council of Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, Sweden, Iceland, and the Faeroe Islands, and Greenland. The General has been involved in the council since its establishment, and the Council of Iceland is now numbering seven members of the six Parliaments. The Norwegian Minister's Committee was set up in 1971. On the scale of the Council of Northern Ireland, the Council of the Council of Akureyri is held in the morning at 9,◯10. April the next, but the theme of the meeting has begun. Of course, there are rich common interests in the North countries. But it is also possible that Norway is now conducting a prehuman development program in the Council of Northern America, their theme being started, and a so - called blue book. The Norwegian guests who come to visit us in Akureyri will include introduce yourself to a fishing road in Akureyri. Without a doubt, there are some things they can imitate. At the same time, the Council of England's well-being will visit the Akureyri Seminar and learn of the same salary, in which Iceland has been identified as the pioneers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u8	Mr. President. I want to draw attention to this Cambridge Analytica case and what it really means and what has happened. The Economist recently discussed that with the information that people post on the Internet, photographs, and so on, it is possible to evaluate up to 90% of the sexual tendencies of the individual. It's there today. You can imagine how this can be abused in countries where, for example, it can be taken advantage of. Gay is illegal. This is a fact. This is the reality that we are living in today. So it is important that we wake up and begin to note what Cambridge Analytica has been doing and how this will transform the political landscape when it comes to how you can reach ◯targeter's or aim messages personally to individuals. The trading model at Cambridge Analytica, except for trying to bribe people and something that might be present according to what is in the news, they collect personality information about people, people, people, 50 million people, use this personal information and put it through a person as they can distinguish the personality of the person from what they call Big Five, or a big five, it's also OCEAN, it's a short term. From this point on, they can be found within all groups that have not been possible with their messages. What we need to ask ourselves is: In what way is this collection of personal information taking place on the privacy of all of us? In what way is it to process this personal information into a model about the individual person, i.e. His values, political views, and so forth, when possible with this information? That is what is done with this information, and it is used for political purposes. Just to make us think about it. Piratar and I have already begun to look at this. This is the danger. People go into some game on Facebook that tells us which person in Game of Throns is involved. [[The president calls.]] People give this exact information about themselves, and even if they don't, they don't need to see a lot of doctors, sometimes only five if a person knows what he's doing, by his Facebook page, to know a lot about his political opinions. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Let's think about this. Let's take this into the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u9	A respectable president. Our boys. Everyone knows who they're talking about when they're told. Our boys. [[Set the stage for the Independence Party.]] But I'm not gonna talk about our soccer or handball stars now, but I'm gonna talk about other boys. All the other boys. Many have noted that boys are struggling with school systems. From there comes a large percentage of boys who cannot read, three times as many boys as girls do. More boys don't finish high school, fewer go to college, compared to girls. Of course, a total of 12% 59.9 years old boys are on some form of behavioral drugs. Half as many boys as girls are on drugs at this age. They won't be able to find them. We accept all kinds of behavior, high - risk behavior, crime, drug abuse, depression, inactivity, unemployment, and all kinds of unhappiness. More young men are killed on their own than young women, and the suicide rate of young men is a major concern. It's the highest country in Iceland of all the North countries. What can be done? Don't we have to start doing something? I'd like to discuss this problem in some way with the grand debate wave that rose here, is still important and is taught to #meto, where the lights were directed to what too many women can endure. I suggest that we also direct the light to young men. Let's talk about this. Let's figure something out. Here's a lot of action. Let's not only support our ◯ boys, but other boys, boys, in trouble.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u10	Mr. President. In the beginning, I'm going to respond quickly. paritaprevir Ólafur, son of Ísleifsson earlier, who turned aside to the bill that is on this afternoon on the campaign of campaigning for local government. Just for review, it's time to draw attention to the fact that the bill on this subject is a Senate bill, not a government bill. It is transferred by members of various categories and supported by members of various categories. There are also a number of senators who doubt it. There are no lines of control or opposition. Within each category there may be differences of opinion on the subject, normal. That is the case. That's why I don't think it's fair. A senator setting it up the way he did here. The bill, however, is worth the effort. I assume the 3rd. The following will discuss the subject. Therefore, I will not do so in this talk. The second point that I was going to mention in this brief introduction is how we directly care for the meetings and how we approach them in this chair and here at the council. I thought of it as a matter of thought yesterday, when a vote was held on that particular matter, the election law, that many members of the council who had not participated in the discussion suddenly felt a great need to discuss it under the circumstances of a vote, and went into a material discussion about it. I myself am not innocent of it, I did it to some extent. However, we do well to consider why we do not take advantage of the time given on a topic when the discussion is scheduled and when it comes to votes, we will simply explain how our votes fall. [[The president calls.]] That we do not create extra talk when it comes to the vote, but we take care of it when the other person is actually on the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u11	A respectable president. There's a lot of people in our country who shit them. This group is called micromask. Though a group is then, it is scattered throughout the country. Being an invalid means even that you do not have the full energy or the ability to work physically or spiritually, and if your health allows for microdoers to earn less or more time, they are punished by a lack of income and, in effect, refrained from allowing themselves to feel better and to feel that they are worth something. This week I called information from people from many parts of the country and was striking the number of these individuals have among their hands when all expenses have been paid. Rocked the number from 40 up. K. up to 90 up. K. and that was it. On the west coast, there is a woman who sleeps at a mattress in an apartment frame waiting for a social apartment. In the tent area in the Valley of Saturday, people live near 40 C.E. K. the monthly reimbursement. The next month's meeting will increase up to 90 points. K. and a month later for over 100 of you. K. There is no place to live in the whole country for people in this situation. What will a body of Congress do about these people? Perhaps it would be wise to gather the microchip to fill up the country's holes, which would be more novel than to sweep them under the carpet. We're all born with silver spoons in our mouths, but some lose theirs. Others learn early in life how to pretend to have lost and kept it where the sun is not available because Dad and Mom always give it new if they lose their money and then there's a fat boil in the vault. Perhaps that is why some, although they should be there, are mentioned in the chairs of the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u12	Mr. President. It is vital to remember from this program of attack on Britain, where the neurotoxin was applied to father in the town of Salisbury, U.S.A. Britain, France, America, and Germany say in a joint declaration that Russia is responsible for that shameful attack. NATO's executive director has agreed on this. The use of any state of the weapon is a clear violation of international law and treaties on the ban on chemical weapons. This case is one of the most serious developments in international relations in Europe since World War II. It seems that the matter continues to get worse. Yesterday, the secretary of the State of Britain, President Putin of Russia, compared to Adolf Hitler and said that Pútín will keep HM in Russia in summer, as Hitler did in the 1936 Olympic Games. Britain's prime minister said that the matter is part of a pattern of Russian intervention against Europe. Mr. President. We must take seriously the conduct of the Russians in Europe. A careful report was published by the U.S. Congress in January, which they call the Russian attack on democracy in Russia and Europe. It shows that Russia's goal is to undermine NATO. The importance of NATO has greatly increased in recent years. All Member States have increased their activities within the Community. Iceland has to keep an eye on what goes on there. There is only one institution that has not seen the seriousness of the situation and that has not increased its representatives in the field of NATO, that is, the General Assembly. In NATO's Iceland, only three members of the Parliament, of which only one is from the government position. At the same time, there are seven members of the Northern Council, six members of the Western Council, and five members of EFTA and EEA. It has to be changed. There are rich reasons for this. There's going to be an increase in the Icelandic Council of NATO.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u13	Mr. President. I'd like to start by congratulating us on the day of the Northland. The international work of the European Union is of utmost importance and must strengthen and continue to support and demonstrate the importance of international cooperation. Today, at the convention program, two matters will be resolved, both important and significant. On the one hand, there is a change in elections that give youths 16 years of age the right to vote for rural government. This is a focus of our life, a far - reaching way of view, that we trust young people to make decisions about their lives. It has taken us to the ground with caution by starting with the local government phase and perhaps we will go further by trusting young people in more fields and harmonizing our age and participation in society. The second is a change in the general penal law, which has gained a very good agreement at the council to change the definition of rape and to bring consent into the definition. In this way, the General gives a very clear message from the legislatator into society. With the approval of this bill, Icelanders are taking the lead in this area, at least in the northern countries we now best compare ourselves with. I believe and trust that we will resolve that matter in agreement here from the council and will bring honor to Iceland and contribute to the sexual freedom and privacy of our private life and that sexual activity is always based on the approval of those involved. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u14	President. Today, in the DV, a short article on five things I could ask about. By permission of the President: That incomprehensible thing. What does a Smári Mccarthy do to the 134 thousand guy he gets for living on Waffles Street? And don't you think it's unfair that I don't get any money to live in the World of Light? The request for the Department of Social Affairs. The big question. Is our reality a dream? Are we, then, responsible for things that happen in parallel realities? A request for a travel minister. The shoelessness. Can senators take breathed shoes? A request to the Environment Minister. What no one wants to know. When's the next knock? The request for prime minister. What no one wants to answer. Why did Ögmundur of Jónasson refuse a Minister's commission if not permitted? And why has no one else tried to refuse a trace? If I check in at a Smári bit more, can I also get a 134 thousand? I'm asking for Secretary of Financial Affairs. Another idea came up with a Twitter from the @birkirgudmundar President's permission: ▪ Prominent for transport and rural management for the cooking of oatmeal. It's the highest. Minister to work with a red Solgyn, or is he in some other secret weapon? What is the ideal proportion of water and goats? Sets the highest. Ministers of kiwi or bananas into the grass, or is it just salt of old school? A respectable president. The real deal is for fun. My request for the name of Iceland's capital is linked to registration at the birthplace of children. Is it true that a child born on the North Coast is registered in a distant area of birth? That a baby born at birth in Christmas is registered in Reykjavík and not in Reykjavík? That a baby born in Gilley is registered with a birthplace in Akureyri instead of a Akureyri trade or just in Gambiey, in a legal home? Also, there is a question about whether this should be a head record. Perhaps someone does not consider this an important question. I appreciate it, but I think this is an important question.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u15	A respectable president. The news about Cambridge Analytica and similar organizations must make us think about subjects that have recently been a concern for many who are so - called false news. Of course, every politician who believes that he has something to do with the media has news to see if they are true or not. We now live in a time in which the information technology revolution has enabled us to accomplish many things, both positive and negative. The so - called false news, a fabrication put into a news cover directly to shape opinions, may not in itself be a new phenomenon. But the scale is new and how hard it can be for a large group of people to know the difference between what is true and what is not true. It's new how hard it can be. Now, as history shows, and especially, the various religions of the world, is not so clear today as to know the difference between true and unforgiving things, I allow myself to say. In order to make use of this information technology revolution that we are still going through, it is not only important that the authorities have some ideas about how they can stop false news or control the folly that is able to wander the Internet good or in the media in general. It is important that the public does not simply care about what is true or what is not. It is fundamentally important. It's amazing if you look at the history of how little this seems to have meant to people in general. We need more than a political response to the dangers of the information technology revolution. We also need cultural responses. We can't give a shit. We must want to believe what is true, and we must not believe what is not true.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u16	A respectable president. At first, I want to direct my words to what is happening. paritaprevir Ólafur the son of Izz the son of Ísleifsson, a friend of mine, of the people of Floki, when he was here in the matter of A whalering. He did it yesterday and came on to it today, and the priming business was general. I would like to direct men to study the history of the case on such matters during the council. A Ramma plan is a means of reconciliation that was set up in order to make such a subject a professional conclusion and a greater harmony than had previously established such major decisions. This was done on the duty of the Independence Party in the government in its own time. It's supposed to be a career of reconciliation. A joyful approach where subgroups are working on professional approach in a variety of areas and bringing their findings to a project that then takes the individual grades and assesses the impact on nature, assesses the impact on the economy, etc. This arrangement can be disputed. I haven't always been happy with that myself. But as long as we have these guidelines set by the council, there is, of course, nothing more to do than to apply them, such as the Supreme Court. The prime minister came in fine yesterday. The matter is not in the field of the council as the situation is, except that we adopt these laws. It is vital that we keep up - to - date with these matters. Of course, the bioavailability of natural resources has changed everything for this community, has made a big difference for us, but in the same time our attitudes in nature have changed in recent years, which is better. We have been very effective in this regard. We can recall the story of some time in which gold Falls would be activated. No one comes to mind today. Another case, a respectable president, to whom I would like to mention and I see that is not part of the council today, but I mentioned yesterday, is about a number of local representatives who were supplied yesterday by the Environment and Transport Committee. I strongly emphasize that it will be arranged for the council today, before the weekend. I believe that it is consistent to speed up a trial of that matter according to the pace of the matter of election age. While there is certainly a difference between these issues, there is a similarity. But it is only important that this matter be taken up for discussion at the council's field and continued in the same way that we have seen in the other subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u17	Mr. President. Last week, I joined several other members of the United Nations Women's Assembly. For that reason, I'd like to tell you about a woman I met there named Grizelda Grootboom. Grizelda, a victim of the human hall, somehow managed to get out of that tragic situation. At the Women's Council, Grizelda gave her story; she told of the terrible violence she was subjected to, so terrible that after her story ended, the 500 people in the hall were all in tears, signed, including. Why am I telling you about this fine woman? The police in Iceland, the police in the capital area, are concerned that human halls and prostitution are increasing in the capital area, and in fact, we know that in some ways the police are right. There may be individuals in the capital area and even more in the country, in most cases women who live in the same terrible position as Griz Grizelda; resort to violence every day and send from one country to another for profit to those who, let's say, abuse them. This problem is a social problem for all of us. It is the duty of all Icelanders, all members of the International Parliament, to handle this matter, to take a serious look at it, and to do what we can to prevent women in the same situation as this good woman from suffering. [[The president calls.]] I challenge senators to deal well with these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u18	Mr. President. I have to say, I was surprised to find myself in a vote on financial policy yesterday that our good partners in the United States decided to support the new development program that is - well, we should say a little more to the right than the one put here. I would have thought it was more likely that our associates would support a policy that is closer to them, although it may not go as far as they would like. Last year these same senators, not quite the same but some members of the council, voted against what was then adopted by them yesterday. It called for less government spending and more subsidies. This is understandable from the perspective and political restoration, but it is not as understandable from an angle as to the attitude and attitude of the politics of the Continental League that has attacked us in exactly the same way as they did with the direction they presented. [[Up front.]] The exact same statistical policy was set out yesterday on behalf of the restoration, and it was arranged by the then state of the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance, Benedikt the son of Jóhannesson. I know that the director of the United States criticized the then secretary of finance considerably then and mentioned in that account the story of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, where he thought he was turning from the path he had proclaimed, and also spoke of moving mountains for 20 billion. We've done quite a lot better than that, and we're about to do even better. So I don't quite understand how they think, but it doesn't mean my job to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u19	Before anyone gets the word about the President's conference board, the president would like to be informed, as a matter of fact. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son, that the president intends to set up a new meeting with a new program later in the afternoon if the program is being handled successfully, and that is exactly what they will take on a program that did not fit in on today's program, matters that were not prepared to enter the program as they were in the Congregation Book Bookbooks until midnight last night. These are the plans.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u20	Mr. President. I'm here to go because of the last speaker's words. Hv. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir misunderstood what happened here yesterday. Change of motion was about more change. I thought it would be better than walking on the rest like a dog. A senator and a boy. The senators approved here yesterday. It was about the rest, not the way we were going to get that kind of change. We've been talking about increased expenses and growing income too. I don't think I'd accept that way. Councilmen want to go, increase expenses, and reduce taxes at the same time as a poisonous cocktail, and they know what they want.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u21	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear how eager the president is to adopt the Senate case here that I intend to know that he is in a physical agreement with his talks during his final term. I suppose he also enjoys hearing me speak because it will follow. Then I'd like to direct it to the highest. I know that he doesn't feel the same way I do, but it's the bill for drinking alcohol and tobacco that has come in on the council table and is served and is long time, and that mine knows how to discuss. Has the highest. The president enjoys listening to the person who is here spoken in a necklace, and the senator can promise that it will also be done in that case. [[I'm free all weekend.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u22	The president is always willing to listen to a court order. A senator with pleasure.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u23	Mr. President. I find this to be an interesting suggestion for a man. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek. On the other hand, I suppose, without my wanting to speak for the President, that his attitude toward taking the initiative. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson O.F. has been linked with the fact that the last few days have been discussed with other matters related to the rural election in one way or another. It is consistent that the issues in which they are addressed at the same time, especially in terms of the time until the end of the district elections, are very short as any person knows, and if I remember correctly, the regional election will begin for the next week. That gives us reason to distinguish between these two matters, the local government and the case he brings up regarding the violation of the State's exclusive right to the sale of alcohol, which I strongly support. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u24	The president believes that only one guidance is his primary duty to the decision - making program, and that it is to reveal the intent of the assembly according to what they are prepared for discussion and payment. One main responsibility for a president at any given time must be to help with his duties that the will of the Generals is revealed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u25	Mr. President. This is a factor in changing the attitudes created by ancient fathers'empires. No one needs to be reminded of a world of # capital, and then the #methoo revolution that has gone up like a fire in the world and is no exception to Iceland. It shows that society is exposed by attitudes and therefore behavior that we cannot tolerate. It is long time for a man to turn aside from the male viewpoints reflected in many things, that under certain circumstances a man has virtually right to have sex with a woman. We need to change the law in harmony with the public's sense of justice and use it to change attitudes and influence the more important aspects of our lives. That's why I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u26	Mr. President. We're here to accept a case that I think will be of great importance to an Icelandic community. We're giving the tone that when you're having sex, you're both gonna have to exist. I think this is going to have a lot of preemptive value on the future. I hope we continue on the same path. This is an important step. Then we need to continue to eliminate sexual violence in our society. That is why I vote with this bill with great joy and pride.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u27	Mr. President. I wanted this 3rd. The case offers an opportunity to describe my view of this in a slightly deeper way than it allows for votes or votes. The change that the bill basically involves reducing the criteria for election age from 18 to 16 years. This, in my opinion, is a much more significant change, unlike what some have held in discussions until now, because there is a change of one of the basic criteria in terms of national election rights. In this important change, and if you look at it in relation to something else, it is proper to remind you that in connection with the election right to the Council, it is not enough to have the election age tied in to the election's vote or to the law on election election elections, but rather than to the order of an 18-year vote to the Council of Allied Congress. You realize that this is not a trivial technical change, but it is a fundamental change. As mentioned in my case with 2nd. it is in my opinion that the limits to the election rights can be drawn whether they want it to be 16 years or 18 years. In itself, there is no scientific or theoretical evidence to support either conclusion. The 16 - year - old target can be reasoned, and the 18 - year - old goal can be reasoned with. When the 18 - year - old goal was chosen, it was assumed that it was the age of life in which people would generally be matured and, of course, may be in line with a life of self - control. In the sense of the law, youths are until the age of 18 but become independent persons with self - control and financial resources at the age of 18. I assume that when the 18 - year - old decision was made, it was viewed as a range of ages that would generally be normal, in view of the date of completion, so to speak. It is true that there are many other ages in the law, and young people are granted a variety of rights to someone other than their age. However, in view of the legal environment, 18 years is generally the standard that provides the most rights and rights at the same time. As a result, I feel that I have no reason to make this adjustment unless we consider the overall context when we generally believe that individuals have the maturity that they are a valid members of the community. I'm ready to examine the 16-year-old age of that relationship. I don't think it's unusual that you're looking at it, by the way. based on evidence of involvement in society, development, and so on. I think it's normal to be examined, but I don't completely understand what reasons are in itself for taking this part when we still believe that individuals between 16 and 18 years of age are basically meant to be in the custody of their parents, subject to their decisions, and cannot make important decisions about their personal lives unless they leave their parents. I think it's a little strange to take this out of the way, but I would be willing to take these boundaries in general at 16 years rather than 18 years if people feel that there is good evidence to it. So this is the subject of the matter. I would in no way deem it unreasonable or rule out bringing the vote down to 16 years in both the district election and the General elections, while considering how we in general feel it proper to trust young men to make important decisions about their personal matters. There is an inconsistencies, as I say, in identifying them, taking them out, and treating them in some less minor way than others the duties and rights that a youth handles, which validates members of the community. These have been attributed to the fact that there have been some examples, there are not too many, that the election court has been moved down to 16 years in countries around us. There are, however, many more examples of the 18 - year vote. In our main neighboring countries, the only example from Norway is that of a recent national election course that was reduced to 16 years ago. I've heard that in the case of people during the discussion that I know that this experiment has not worked well, i.e. has caused some disappointment. The explanation is that there was not enough time to prepare. There have been reports of this experiment in Norway. The problem with the way this was done in Norway is that there was not enough time to prepare. Will we learn from that experience? Are we going to say, "We're not going to fall into the same pit as Norwegians? No, no, it's a matter of making this count in two months. The time spent in preparation is closer than did a person in Norway at the time. Another example that has been mentioned, and I don't know and can't judge, is from Austria, where the election is 16 years and actually Malta too. In Scotland, the vote was given for 16 years. There was much participation. I don't realize if it had any other effect, but it didn't cause any special problems, I don't think anyone ever claimed that it caused any trouble. In fact, such a change must be made, if it is well prepared, not to cause any problems, but we are in the position that when we are talking about this issue in the end of March, there are only two months in the election for the government, so that all the time that men are considering using to prepare the case is not now more than the days in which it is, eight or maybe nine weeks. Nine weeks, if I'm right. There may be plans for this. It has not been observed during this discussion that there is a plan to present this to those who are receiving the right to vote with this, it has not been established. Neither has it been reported how to perform this technical procedure. I'm told that guests who have set up a board of administrations and surveillance committees have said it's possible, but it's difficult. That's what those who are going to vote. Civil authorities are primarily responsible for the implementation of local elections. The rural government has protested that this will be done on such short notice, i.e. A Union of Icelandic rural society. All of this causes a measure of anxiety, although it is certainly not impossible to do this at the time. I'm sure that's not out of the question. The question is, Is this a cautious approach or a reasonable approach? Then there is another matter, so to speak. So I'll have to, at the highest. To state a measure of doubt as to whether it is right for the council to handle this on this day. I paid yesterday a vote with a suggestion to postpone a validation, i.e. adopted a vote that included a prince's decision to turn down the vote for 16 years; however, the council and the government would take more time to prepare. There were two such suggestions yesterday, but they were not reached in the eyes of the senators at that time. A new suggestion of that sort may be pronounced on 3rd. I don't think it's any better to approach than to agree with this case right now and then see how it's done. Of course, I must say that I feel that this matter has been handled through the council in terms of its nature and scope. As I said at the beginning of my speech, changing basic terms is no small matter, it's quite a big deal, quite a part of a great deal, as we have been tracking. This matter, as I mentioned earlier in a discussion about earlier today's activities, is instigated by word. paritaprevir Of course, Ólafur the son of Ísleifsson is not a party. This is stated by members of the council from most categories at the council. Disregarding it from various categories has been observed. Sounds like people from at least Four members of the council feel that it would be appropriate to postpone the execution, even if a person gives support to the basic change, the change of materials. Clearly, this is not a simple matter or an undisputed subject. I don't think we can claim that. With regard to individual positions, it is proper for me to inform that my class of independence has been divided on this matter. At the national meeting of the group held for the last weekend, a vote on the subject was adopted, so when this sort of change was taken up, 260 were in the hall at the time, with 16 years of age and 290 in return. It is evident, therefore, that many people have differing views on this subject. However, two and a half years ago, a vote fell on my national convention to date 16 years ago, so we can see that this is controversial. The position of a person is not determined by party bonds, so to speak. From my point of view, no matter how we handle the transformation I actually thought it would be necessary to think better before entering it, it's at least It is reasonable and wise that we take more time to go through this change, prepare it wisely, and carefully with those who are expected to perform elections, handle presentations for young people, and so on, and consider what our attitude in general is about when a young person should get the right to address important aspects of their personal life. We have made it a step to set that limit of 18 years for most of the factors involved in social rights and obligations. V.E.G. President. I'm not gonna keep this case any further. I believe, however, that it is very unwise for us to take care of it without considering differences of viewpoints and discussing further matters before making a vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u28	A respectable president. I thank the senator very much for his excellent input. A theme of what he has spoken about is that it should be consistent between legal rights and elections. I would like to ask him if he is consistent with himself when it comes to supporting this matter and linking it to another subject that has been discussed here today. I mentioned in the speech yesterday that I felt sorry that there was a short course, and I felt sorry for the reason that maybe it wasn't ideal to change the elections so soon before the election, but there was something more important. I intend to be consistent with myself in not allowing them to reason seriously when discussing another subject that will be discussed here. Then I'd like to ask. A senator: Is it not proper to review the evidence he has presented here that it is unfortunate to change election laws with such shame, especially in view of the fact that the matter is controversial and that there is a difference of opinion about it within the council? Is it not that the same value for another subject to be discussed in the following article, where the campaign is being changed shortly before election, and it is obvious that there are differing opinions on that matter and even groups of Congress divided?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u29	I have a feeling we're doing what. paritaprevir Mr. Pawel Bartoszek is going to make a point of calling each other about these matters. I generally believe that it is unwise to change election law shortly before the election. Therefore, it would likely have been the most wise thing to consider. On the other hand, if more part of the council, not I, is of the opinion that enough time is needed to make a basic change in how to have the right to vote, I don't think that more part of the council will also agree to change representatives, or as that bill goes on, the government gives itself permission to determine a number of local government officials. I think that if more part of the council counts that it is safe and no problem with changing the votes when it is a week until an out-of-circuit agreement is scheduled to begin, it is still less of a matter to allow for adjustments in the number of local government officials, since the proposals need not be available until May. I'm not worried about this. If more of the council on the other hand, it is the opinion that the end of March is an appropriate time to make changes in rural elections, I do not understand that it applies only to this matter but not to the other.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u30	A respectable president. In fact, many sources of contributions have at least been introduced, although, of course, no one was formally laid out. [[Nobody's forwarding.]] That's how every appointment is set in election law, so that it needs to be fixed or cut from behind them according to the incident. I was a little surprised at what I said. A senator, if he would be so kind as to listen to my case, that he would let the opinion of the greater part of the Generalis control his princeship in this matter. I have said that since I don't feel that it's too much to put aside one subject and discuss it, rather than make a particular change, I am also willing to discuss the others and to discuss them, even though I am in a physical way against that proposal. There's nothing in the system that makes it impossible to make it work. I feel that if I understand him correctly, the senator will take advantage of the possibility that the vote might be done in one way, and then he will be able to justify that there are other changes that are all right as well. Either the senator believes that an election is too short to make a fundamental change in election law or not. Then he should feel that way, not let a greater portion of the World Congress control it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u31	Mr. President. Like what? paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek knows I'm like a leaf in the wind when it comes to these matters. I just thought it was right to draw attention to it. As I say myself, I would've chosen to take a second. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek could have stuck together to change the decision on the last winter's count of local government officials, and I know he contributed to that matter to the council. It would have been much better to put such changes at a good time before elections. I wanted to say with the change in numbers of local leaders that, of course, it's better to keep it in mind that as it is presented in the bill of the year. Gunnarsson This does not include the obligation of the rural communities to change the number of local rulers, but gives them permission to do so, space. If they choose to make changes, that change may come about. Of course, we have to watch that two months before election is short of time to make such decisions and, indeed, in the rural government most relevant to our mayor, Reykjavík, has already been made the majority of the decision to make for a particular increase. There is no particular reason to believe that the more part of the city's city of Reykjavík would change that stand, even though the law code would be expanded in this respect. Now we've got a what? paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek may not be able to return but can come in a talk, but I wonder if he can, at any rate, address the concerns that have shown that the time for this change is very tight and put those who have, for example, those who have. performing the vote for any problem. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u32	A respectable president. It's good to hear what you're saying. paritaprevir Birgir Ármannsson has run 3rd. to make the same comments that he has made about the matter from the beginning. It's nice to have a word with him about it. But I make my peace because of what I'm doing. There is a senator, and he is not alone from his company, that there is something reckless about it. A couple of guys came yesterday. Councilmen of the Independence Party spoke of their being thrown or that the matter was not yet finished. That's why I'd like to come up here, and I'm afraid I'm going to be accused. There are few cases I've been following, both during my campaign and when I was a reporter to write about the council, where there have been as good work and as much discussion as this case. The subject was presented on December 16. It was four months ago. There's been a discussion on the management and monitoring committee. There were 323 hearing requests. There were 23 reviews. Number of guests I just don't have in my head. This is not the first time a case of this sort has been proposed. That was presented to the 146th legislature. It was sent for review. Twenty-one reviews. This matter was presented to a Council of 147th. It wasn't over. In the past, many of these cases have been presented, not exactly, in many of the preceding conventions. So I'm waiting. Councilmen, even though they disagree with the subject, do not fall into the danger of making the case suspicious or bringing reproach on it. It depends, not on a material viewpoint, but on the respect of the Generals. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u33	Mr. President. I don't have a place in a board of administrations and monitoring committees, and I haven't followed up yet. However, I note that despite the coverage there, there has been a lack of agreement as to the outcome. A smaller section of the Committee has felt that there were points to be considered, which last night were called in to discuss the matter. How often it is presented to the Council is not a measure of quality. There are differences in the viewpoints of certain factors in this regard. But my feeling is that, and that's what we are. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé's disagreement is that it simply means that those who have conviction in the matter have long stopped asking themselves some questions, both about content and action. However, those who may come up with something new and who have not delivered it seven times have certain doubts. If only we take the vote yesterday, when 40 senators discussed a vote, because they had not participated in discussions about the matter in 2 Corinthians. Um., it was found that they had very different viewpoints on this, a variable understanding of what was happening and taking sides from very different sources. Under these circumstances, I feel that cases will do much more good before there is any final payment, even though I admit that they have my opinion on this matter that I have more doubts about it than they do. þm. Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Propé. [[The president calls.]] Of course, it colors my position. I'm more careful about the change because I'm not convinced that it's right.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u34	A respectable president. Again, I almost want to accuse myself. Hv. paritaprevir A Birgir - old Ármannsson says that he suspects that those who have conviction that the matter is acceptable have long ceased to ask themselves questions on the subject. I find myself a rather cold greeting to myself and to others. Senators sitting in bed. Board of Directors and Control Committee. Not only did we use yesterday's lunch break but we also used the lunch break to call in new guests right here to ask them questions to determine how the election would be carried out, this proposal would be legal. How the Ministry of Education lent to the implementation of the essential education and came to our meeting with a representative, e.g. LUF, i.e. I'm here to represent young people, who I think are so. A senator often forgets that there is opposition and what is subject to this bill. It's not the Independence Party meeting or we're in here. It's the young people who'd get this vote. I think it's rather unnatural to talk, so others have stopped asking themselves questions than new ones. Then there are those who come up with a new issue whether they have been doing their job if the case is new to them now, which was proposed on December 16 of last year. As far as I am concerned, I have been asking myself questions in this matter. I've asked questions at every meeting of the executive and monitoring committee, read me through every application, and talked to guests. And learn from the experience of those who have tried to do this. Hv. A senator will be talking about the experience of the Norwegians, which is the only example we have in which there is bad experience with a decline in election age to 16 years. I'm asking why. A senator does not look, for example. To Malta. I can move it. A senator's good news is that since we wrote this bill, it has been so good for the Maltese, who tried to reduce election rate to 16 years, have now taken the step to the full, since the experience with it was so good that they agreed at the beginning of this month that it was also true in election elections. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u35	Mr. President. I assume it's not far to the highest level. Financial and economic ministers. The second bank has been authorized to use influx capitals, binding a foreign capital on interest - free accounts under the provisional legal requirements of currency. This source was transferred to law in June 2016 and was thought to be necessary in terms of the implementation of a general budget. In a bill report, it was noted that the influx of foreign investments was accompanied by a number of benefits and, at the same time, limited risks, based on long - term business relationships where, in addition to the funding that the influx involves, there is a sharing of knowledge and technology, as a report said. On the other hand, prophesying carries a series of dangers, where the drive is short - term failures because of growth between countries. Iceland and I burned ourselves badly on wax trade in the years before the collapse of the financial system. The Seam Bank's sources to control the influx of foreign funds were notably aimed at preventing growth management and thus reducing risks and preventing national and financial instability. Since the introduction of the influx seas in the summer of 2016, there has been no change in their application. 40% of foreign funds must be tied to a interestless account, which applies to all bonds and deposits regardless of publisher, state, rural and businesses and duration. No distinction is made between growing trading and long term investing in Icelandic activities. In this connection, I will agree with the many sources of strong evidence that it is necessary for the wing to change waxing. However, it is also important to note that the International Cash Fund - of course, we know that its experts are not completely infallible - is clear in their opposition to Iceland's Influx Head. A report released last summer claimed that there was no reason for special concerns on the influx of funds to Iceland. The influx seas should not be permanent, as the AGS is only justified as emergency measures. You should never play a key role in domestic management. I maintain that the consequences of the Influx Seas are more serious. As a result, Britain's interest rates are abnormally high, businesses and homes pay special stress because of their problems, and the oceans hinder economic competition. In an interview with the February issue of business, President Ásgeir Jónsson, economist of economics, and head of the branch office of Iceland's University, said: And if these were taken away, I think we'd see growth decline relatively fast. It reduces the competitiveness of Icelandic employment, is damaging in Icelandic interests, and is therefore a very low percentage of foreign investments in the Icelandic stock market. It is one thing to have weapons and ammunition in the armory. It is quite another to use them without any threat. The same is true of Iceland's National Institutes on Influx Administrators. Long-term investments will have a positive effect. Business bond costs will increase and compete for financial markets. Homes were offered a more favorable name and actual interest, and I'm quite aware that cheating loans would be more important. So there is much to do. That's what I want to ask the highest. Economic and Economic Ministers: Does the Minister believe that there is a basis for bringing back the oceans that are still in value for the investment of alien residents in domestic stocks and deposits? Is it wise for the Council to review preliminary legal requirements set up in the summer of 2016? Does the minister criticize that the influx seas have resulted in a higher rate of interest for the job and for the individual than for the future? Then, in fact, there would be a special growth load on a company and home and would reduce the competitiveness of the Icelandic economy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u36	V.E.G. President. I thank him for his interest in this matter and for discussing this matter. I'd like to make the first quick entrance, despite a nice approach here on the purpose of the cash flow system, that by tying part of the inlets that come into the country for investments in financial gains that have high growth on the international scale, the remuneration of the investors who are looking for a shorter period of growth is being reduced. Inflows of wax trade can undermine financial stability by hindering the normal sharing of the money policy on the way to growth and adversely affecting the crew of the kroner. The device is designed to contribute to a lower risk of incorporation but at the same time to increase the possibility of maintaining a growth stage that differs from that of a foreign country is the need to maintain the aim of inflation. It's just a matter of time. I believe that there would have been a tremendous measure of neglect on our part if we hadn't demonstrated that we had learned something from the waxing business and that we would be willing to add tools to our toolbox to respond. I also find it important to bear in mind that we were going into considerable uncertainty when we decomposed the seas, and this was in my mind one key operation to ensure successful execution of the ocean, the recovery of the sea, as we have seen happen. It's done well. It's asked me if I think it's a reason to lift the oceans that are still in value for the investment of foreigners in domestic stocks on loans. It can be said that in general, conditions for relaxation of capital flow improve as there is a decrease in interest of growth, decline in gang size, and a lack of production of tension. As we look at the economic trends of the region and, indeed, abroad, it has developed in the past way that it is normal to consider the relaxation of the commitment as we call it. On the contrary, decommissioning the budget and improving government credit ratings have made GDP more acceptable and more likely. Also, it is to the point that the end result is still to run on the emissions of capital syrup, and I am referring to this relative piece of dollars, which is about $38 billion. Nevertheless, as economic conditions change between Iceland and the rest of the world, where the economic situation in abroad takes on even more, there is a greater improvement in the economic situation. Whether to cancel the commitment of certain types of foreign investments or, in any case, it should be mentioned first that certain types of inlets are reserved for the commitment such as stock investment and direct foreign investments, except for that. At the time of the binding commitment, its frame took into account its activities, but also came up with a substitution and the exception of a corporate bond was opened to the possibility of setting up an enterprise that invests in government bonds but financed itself with a bond version, thus avoiding the commitment. It should be noted that the demand for corporate bonds was small at the time of commitment, but the circumstances may have changed as much as foreign investments in registered stocks and recent credit agreements with US investment funds. Hence, it is reasonable to review the distribution of the boundy, with regard to which category it applies and to be employed in the Penitentiary. The discussion has thus raised questions as to whether binding duties have led to higher interest costs for the job and for individuals, but it is to the point that it is now just the direct objective of the volume obligation to allow the Bank to maintain a interest level that is based solely on domestic circumstances, so it is difficult to answer that question. But it is good to remember that when the funds were taken up, the economic situation in this country was considerably different from that of Europe and the United States. This was the case with tension, but the production plant on both sides of the Atlantic at the same time has been changing the economy and the relaxation of the American economy seems to have disappeared at the same time, with less tension and economic growth being possible here. [[The president calls.]] As we look at the fact that Iceland's Navy has dropped its growth five times, and growth in the United States has been increasing and even expected to continue this year, there is all evidence that circumstances are developing in order to implement these measures for revisions. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u37	Mr. President. The big question is, will there ever be a chance to run a money policy on this land without any control while we keep the Icelandic dollar, the least independent currency in the world? It has been shown in the discussion to argue that the influx seas will lead to a higher financial cost, that the influx oceans will contribute to the higher growth in this country than they would be if we didn't build the seas and therefore have a negative impact on national production. It is also held in a discussion of the influx seas that they give the banks a superior competition position. Influx seas damage investments and pension funds, and banks benefit from keeping them. Iceland is a small country and we need foreign funds. In turn, with the Influx Chiefs, the Navy has a better opportunity to control the money, and with it it it is harder to create trouble in the currency market, we are in trouble. The influx master acts as an inhibitor of the potential to take position against the crown, with serious consequences for the general population. Although the crown's strength has a good effect on the common population, it can be a short - range plant. And if the amount of money grows further, the consequences for exports, especially for tourism, will be worse for the public too. Mr. President. It is very expensive for us, and it is difficult to see how we can keep it without restraint. Our influx seas are also expensive. But it is necessary to determine whether taking them altogether off or in step will cost us more and when the right time to do so will be more costly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u38	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason for bringing this up and thanking him for his story of the case as well as the highest. Minister. This case has been a topic of discussion. A financial and business committee, as the senator knows, has been explained by the Committee to explain how this case is all being carried out. I am concerned with Iceland's Secret Bank, which has shown that the way of allowing the binding entirely at once can be dangerous and may contribute to the risk of growth trading, the same as it was here for collapse, with dire consequences. In the past, the Icelandic economy has been a terrible burner. However, the difference between conventional stock trades and trades in the stock market or inletting into the stock market or direct employment investment, as it were, is clear to me. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason actually came in, I think it was in this speech rather than in a conversation before. It could be a success. I have to say, I trust in this area, in cooperation with the government, to assess the appropriate time to take these steps. I suppose that's what. The Economic and Business Committee will pay close attention to this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u39	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank you for the fine discussion we have here. Looking at the influx oceans that are still around the people, and then the 88 billion relativities, hopefully, begin to provide for the main problems, but as far as the influx seas are concerned, I think it is necessary to go to the job of winding down of the position there. There are quite a different conditions in the economy now than when they were put on, that is obvious to all. For example, the production pen is dwindling. There's just a situation where we can see that the influx seas are maintaining the interest level, and then we have to go to the project because, as I've said many times in this chair, it's really about the growth. The maintenance of interest because of this is a real problem affecting both the homes and the businesses of the country. There is something else to keep in mind. There is no need for the system now as was being handled by the rules. We are in a very different position, and we are to proceed to get out of this arrangement as fast as possible. I have an understanding of the Secret Bank's viewpoint not to want to take the heads off in one blow, but sometimes the patches need to be ripped off. I'm the highest. The successfulness of the secretary of the budget in terms of making rapid progress to this project and reducing the remaining unsolved issues of Iceland's entire marine environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u40	A respectable president. I don't like capital masters as well as most others, whether they're influx captains or other kind of capitalists. They are costly, there is no question, and relatively well known what form of the cost is. It has been said here that they increase their interest levels in Iceland. Sometimes it is said of the impossible triangle: Free flow of capital and constant currency or independent money policy. There are two choices, not all three. But when we talk about things like an influx head, we'll have to discuss the other two factors at the same time. For right now, the gangs of the crown are high. It seems to agree on that. At least not low. We have, though, greatly reduced capital capitalism. It is essentially positive. But if we're going to have an independent money policy, an independent currency, and we're not going to have a head, that means we have a unstable currency. The cost then appeared like that. We'll always pay for it in some way. By means of the influx seas, we pay for it with a high interest level. If we're going to keep the crown, we're going to pay for it. That's it. In fact, even if we pick up another coin. The reflection of the cost will only be different. It does not appear when it is growing. In my opinion, we need to discuss these three things together: free flow of capital, stable currency, and independent money policy. It is obvious that the current government is going to retain its own money policy and keep the Icelandic dollar. It is clear that the Icelandic government intends to have free flows of capital. Normal, it's the natural state for all economic systems to have free flows of capital. But that means we have a unstable currency. I wondered what the common citizen can do about it. And that means that the Icelandic economy's relationship with its currency will always be very bad. I'll go into it in the second round.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u41	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the advisor, huh? A senator and president of the Economic and Business Committee Óli Björn Kárason, this discussion on the demolition of the Influx Sea and the interest level. As we have seen, the oceans are originally set to reduce the financial resources that are looking for abroad in order to increase their growth and the sentences of the law, including the rules of the law. from the bitter experience of the release of so - called flannel letters that are out of bet on the currency. The aim was, however, to reduce the risk associated with excessive capital flows associated with the release of capital waste, and this is made clear in a committee sheet. The Economic and Business Committee, when this bill is being discussed at the council that says, by permission of the President: It is intended to provide Iceland's National Focal Bank with a tool to reduce the risk of related overexploitation to the country in relation to the emissions of capital syrup. It is to some extent true that from the sentence of June 2016, the risk of this business with a lower interest level may have been reduced, and it would be appropriate to consider whether the evidence is holding, for example, during growth. In the United States and Europe, as well as in the United States, the Governing Body has reduced growth, debates as to whether it is logical. The interest level must always be viewed, however, and it is highlighted in the Federal Bank every time and possibly to evaluate the situation and to some extent reduce the commitment rate or the binding ratio.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u42	Mr. President. There's every reason to thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason for taking up this important matter and, as a matter of fact, I thank the Minister for his contribution. We faced a difficult situation, and there is reason to rejoice over how successful we have been in getting rid of the oceans laid on the World Bank. They came to terms with a few things, I'll tell you, in the history of the great institution. Still, since 2016 we are in a position to have a head, called the Influx Head, and their effects are well - known. There is no question about it, however, that they lead to a higher level of growth and thus increase costs, to form with the wealth, businesses, and households. It's in the middle of nowhere, and there's no dispute. The other main effect is that the oceans contribute to holding back the crown's strength, an important factor too. This head has remained unchanged for some time now. It's obvious that they don't have any distinction between whether it's a waxing trade, which we want to get by natural, and that we don't have a good experience with, or a long-term investment in a commercial life that I think we can think of most of us can take good care of here. In my second speech, I will discuss these factors, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u43	Mr. President. I agree with other senators here and thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason for speaking on this important subject. It's a little fun that we're discussing money policy at the council, that's what we think I'm not. The influx oceans that are being used today are an unbreakable feature of independent money policy with a very small coin, such as the Icelandic crown. This is made clear in the argument of the Federal Bank on the seas, and it is actually very clear in the case of most experts who have addressed this issue that as undesirable as such, so it is also clear that we will not be running such a small currency without custody. They may be the efflux plant at a time as we experienced after a collapse, but they may also be the influx head when we have the current economic expansion. The second bank makes a very clear point in its argument for these influx seas: Their main objective is to direct the money policy management in the growing road rather than the road. Because inflation is certainly possible by having hope strengthened, but we know that it undermines our export roads and is much worse, much more costly, in the long run, than simply acknowledging the cost of independent money policy, which is the growth difference involved, i.e. The expense of the crown. How much more honest it would be if those spokesmen who speak here for continued independent money policy in the form of an Icelandic crown - signed isn't one of them - would talk about the cost of it. That's a big difference. That's insurance. You can't cycle in the consequences and plan to ban them, ban influx master, ban insurance. [[The president calls.]] This is simply part of the cost of independent money policy. You need to talk about it that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u44	Mr. President. Of course, that's a pretty technical discussion. I think I'd say I've been downstairs, which means be careful and take precautions. That's a good idea. This discussion is of that nature. However, there is a saying: Better is a hook than a fire, which means not necessarily going the obvious way, taking on a hook, and grudging for you to get into trouble. You see, it's an amazing habit, a little Icelandic, always to attack the symptoms rather than attack the disease itself, so I don't talk about trying to stop you from getting it. Now the government has been absolutely clear that it does not stand to examine the benefits of taking up a larger and stable currency. But should not this 96 - year - old elder be the disease of his own age? A quick - tempered old person who is either furious or emotional, so that relatives have the greatest difficulty in associating with him? In this way, many of the crowns play very gray, especially innovation companies and big knowledge - based companies who need to play a major role in our future society. In the long life, however, there is a great tendency of weakness, for the sum of a buck has been 99% in its lifetime. Remember, the crown's success has often been a means of moving money from the public to some companies, which have turned into higher inflation and low price benefits for employees. Is it really true that the Icelandic public and the majority of Icelandic companies have to live with the crown and its added fish that are high in interest and insurance?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u45	Mr. President. In Iceland, we live in higher numbers than we do in neighboring countries, for many reasons. There is, in fact, more than the influx seas involved, though they certainly do have an effect. As discussed in the discussion, we have a very small economy. We have even small currency. However, economic tensions have also been high, so the bat uses the interest level to try to address the tensions, as the bank reports. I don't think there is in itself much disagreement about it in this hall, among the members of the council, or just the people at all, that, of course, we would have wanted to have survived the bank crash more quickly than we did. But so I'll come in on symptoms, like what's wrong. Einarsson Before: Some diseases and diseases cannot be cured effectively. It just takes time. The Icelandic economy must have the needed patience, and Icelandic society has needed the patience needed to deal with this. I think we all agree that the Icelandic economy, after the collapse of the economy, did quite well. Not all governments are responsible. So let's just play it cool. But many of the successes have been made because governments, in cooperation with the organizations we rely on, have brought happiness in taking steps carefully and taking them alone so that the economy has taken over again.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u46	Mr. President. Yeah, the influx seas are tricky. There is sound evidence, and there is sound evidence against it. The influx oceans reduce the demand of foreign parties on government bonds, so prices do not go up. If there were no restrictions, it would be more demand for government bonds, saying more people buy letters. The harvest is gone up, and the harvest is gone down, and the stature also goes forth. The next U.S. bonding party would then have a lower requirement for fruitage. If money flows in here, it'll run down the fruit requirement. Then it can happen that investors sell everything, and that's when the economy is unstable. This is exactly what happened before a crash, as we know. However, there's evidence for this, just evidence that doesn't work as much now as before a crash. We are in other circumstances, as we know, but it is natural that for every $100 in the country, 40 dollars will go into a interestless account. Investors are not interested in this arrangement, nor would we be interested in this. It's a medium-directed phenomenon, but you can understand it, as well as the idea behind you. We need and we're supposed to get in here long-term investors, but they have to define themselves as long-term investors. A solution to this important matter, for example, might be that if investors buy government bonds for a certain year, say ten years, they can only be sold first after half the period, e.g. Five years, to ensure stability. In this way we can defuse the outflow in which investors buy at different times. I encourage the Minister to consider this route.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u47	A respectable president. While we have independent currency and independent money policy and no capital master there's no point in talking about some stability in that relationship, it doesn't mean anything, it won't. It's not political, it's just the way it is, and I think everybody knows it's that way. People are just misunderstandings about facing them and knowing what to do about them. Now, I'd like to show a little bit of a solution approach to this, provided we're going to stay on independent money policy and we're going to be in the future without a clue I'll expect to be in the future. It is that the public himself gains a much better understanding of financial matters and, in particular, money issues than in general, just in the general world. People in general are not concerned about the price of currency and the like in their everyday lives. They wonder about the mortgages and car loans, overages, and so on. If we're going to hold on to this crown, that means that the public relationship with the currency needs to be a little strange, a bit twisted. I'd like to remind you of one thing that's also forgotten and that had begun to happen before a crash which is that companies were increasingly using other coins. It actually came in the back door, a certain euroisation or currency area in the economy amongst those who knew how to deal with this instability, this built-in instability in the use of such small coins. Of course, if the common people have that same knowledge, the same interest in money matters, and they know how to protect themselves in financial difficulties, such as 2008, that means that we have a really double money system, which is on the other hand, what else people use to defend their possessions in disaster. One way to defend this is insurance, by saving on an inflatable account, but then we're out in it, sorry for a respectable president, I don't know a better word, it's a certain piece of shit that we'll be stuck with as long as we'll have an independent crown. [[The president calls.]] There's no way out of this, we'll have instability as long as we've got an Icelandic crown without saw. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u48	V.E.G. President. Thank you so much. The advisor as well as what was said in the language of the highest degree. Minister. It's a good thing that I see the agreement between what is presented in the Federal Bureau of Education and the government's case. Minister. The situation is this: The bank has said that it is not time to stop the seas. This requires smaller growth differences. To accomplish this, interest rates obviously need to decrease here or increase abroad. The seas have had the desired effect. The World Bank Board was, if I recall correctly, against those seas in its own time. A financial and business committee discussed the matter during the installment - the management board agrees with the opinion of the Icelandic government that binding duties are necessary under the present circumstances. True, this has been directed into the process of growth, at the end of financial management in such a way that it is necessary to maintain the level of merit. This warrant given to the Office of Jehovah's Witnesses by means of this binding duty: It is one thing to have, another to use. I agree with what. A senator and president of the Óli Björn Kárason Economic and Business Committee on this matter. This is in harmony with the fact that in order to support money policy and national response, the zebra feels that it is necessary to have this tool in the armory. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u49	Mr. President. I would like to take up the thread for a minister's talk when he tore up the view of learning from the experience of the growing business that was being practiced here in its own time. Also, his comment that when the oceans were commonly spoken, there was certainly uncertainty as to how things would be angry. But it was successful. I have a clear understanding of the precautions the Minister has tore up here. However, these oceans cost a lot. They place a very heavy financial burden on a treasure beyond what could be saved. On the one hand, they create some kind of artificial world. Other nations do not practice such practices. Thus, this arrangement cannot last for long. On the other hand, I hear a minister saying he's got a word to do this reimbursement. I want, like others here, to encourage him to act on that subject. In particular, I'd like to direct to the Minister that he would let the Council Bank have the heat in the hold and go along with the explanation of the bank's reasons why he wants to maintain goats, especially when it is time not to make a distinction between waxing business and what we would call a normal long-term investment in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u50	Mr. President. I'd like to pick up the thread where I was earlier. This is exactly a matter of honesty in a discussion of independent money policy. Politicians have the boring habit of celebrating the flexibility, the fanciful crown, how wonderful it is to have this independent currency, it is so important, but then always allow themselves to curse the results without ever discussing the root of the problem. High interest levels are a direct result of small coins. This is inevitable. It will never be stable without any reasonable interest in our neighboring countries. It's always been that way. We've been watching it for decades. A swing in the gang is another consequence of this independent coin. While we love this fluctuation when it is growing stronger, we torment it when it becomes sick again, which it always does, inevitable. Sadly, there are many indications that such a period of illness may be a short distance away. In short. I'm in my heart very opposed to these influx seas because I think it's very undesirable to think that we're building limits or obstacles to the influx of foreign capital into our economy. In fact, it would be highly desirable for pension funds to be able to e.g. Using this influx, it is taking an interest in increasing its foreign investments. At the same time, however, it is clear in the UN Bank's argument that these seas are an essential part of independent money policy. If these were not available, walking would be even stronger than it already is, digging further under the exports, further increasing the chances of future gang stability or gang peace. I'm sorry. These influx seas are inevitable codfish of independent money policy, an independent crown. [[The president calls.]] Maybe then we should discuss the rotunda, i.e. whether we want to keep our own money policy and a dollar of our own, or to adopt a suitable international currency. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u51	Mr. President. I'm gonna start by thanking the highest. Budget and economic secretary for participating in this discussion and for his answers. First: It is wrong to have a natural consequence of independent money policy or its co - fish. That's wrong. It is painful for a person to approach the influx plant in this way. But it must be so, and there's no time to go through it. We may have reason to have a special discussion on this subject. A head, whether an influx head or an outflow head, can never be a long - term component of any economy. It's only a matter of distress that justifies the way they are treated. It is one thing that Iceland's Secret Bank has tools and tools, in its armory, to employ certain seas when it comes to the influx of foreign capital, which is another use. There is no evidence that the Sendlabank can use its authority to contain or control the influx of foreign long-term funds from the bond market and the deposit in the way it is done. There's no evidence to suggest that. There may still be valid reasons for caution and binding commitments when it comes to prognostication, the growth trade. However, the manner of the project and how the Council's Council has benefited from the provision of the provisional law in the 2016 Act on Pension, has led to the greater growth paid by the State Fund. Some of the things a company has to pay are bigger than that. [[The president calls.]] You have to pay more than that for a family home in Iceland. There is no evidence now when we see that only the economy relaxes in doing this in the way that it is done. That's what I'm trying to make, the highest. President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u52	A respectable president. Here in my first speech, I traced the lead to the sentence of these national instruments, which are becoming widely recognized by government resources in every country to control the economy. I came to see, among other things, that interest has increased in the United States since then. They've gone up five times, but they dropped five times in Iceland. So circumstances have changed that give me the expectation that the need for treatment is not what it was. Since then, many have introduced money policy and an independent currency. All I have to say is that I feel that those who accuse those who speak for independent money policy on the basis of the Icelandic crown of not also talking about the shortcomings of holding their own money policy, they are in my mind guilty of never talking about its benefits. The benefits are so obvious, e.g. the principle that the currency's success in life reflects the position of the industry. This is a fundamental factor in all the money management. In this regard, there can be a high cost and economic hazard if one intends to tie himself with a coin when the interest rates of the currency are in no relation to what is going on in commercial life here and in the economy of the general population. Much has been discussed. It is obvious that the European money bank would never begin to look to Iceland's position when it was making decisions on growth in the euro. That is absolutely impossible that it will ever happen. That's why I've said that what we should focus on is fixing the factors that have been undermined by an independent financial government, everything involved in the labour market, public finance. We are working hard today, and in recent years we have done much to strengthen our efforts. [[The president calls.]] It will help us to keep out an independent coin with an independent money government. [[The president calls.]] And then I have to finish my speech by reminding you that this spring we are receiving a report for the review of the money policy that hopefully will be the basis for a lively discussion here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u53	The President wants to report that two letters have been received from a marine economist and agri-gri-gri-gritary minister asking questions. 432, of the Ministry's staff and of the institutions of the Minister's Affairs, of the Þriffstein of Sæmundsson, and of the threshing floor. 383, for the ministers and for the driver, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. A letter has also been received from the financial and economic secretary where request is made to provide a written answer for the application. 416, of the employees of the official partner, of Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u54	V.E.G. President. I'm just trying to understand this bill and what's the point of it. I hear here at times from the top sponsors of the bill that they want to increase their responsibility and trust more young people to make decisions that may matter to them. But the most important thing is that they are the same people, and they don't want to trust young people for anything or for anything, not even to buy all the goods that exist in the supermarket. There are some contradictions in this. I have often said myself that I am very willing to trust young people more than I have done. I was always opposed to raising my self - willing age from 16 to 18 years, but if I remember correctly, it was now the main focus of the groups that support this bill in wanting to raise the age of autonomics. It is contradictory, and you have suspected that something else is behind you. Suddenly you have become so confident in young people. I would have wanted to look into this matter in a much larger context. I would have liked to consider when people should be trusted to make decisions about their lives, whether they pertain to financial matters or to personal matters. Is there reason to reduce that age from 18 to 16 years? That's a good idea. But we have decided that all are children until they are 18 years old, that they are not self - righteous and not financial because men do not have enough maturity to make decisions about their own lives until they are that age? That is the decision of the council. Then comes a bill, and we're going to trust these same people, whom we don't trust in anyone else, to vote for local government. I think we all acknowledge that such rights are a big responsibility. Now we are just going to lay this responsibility on young people, but they are not to be responsible for anything else, or very few. It's not just what matters. It also matters when we're changing election laws that we're feeling comfortable with it, that it's not done in a hurry and in a lot of trouble. A modification plan has been made to postpone or delay the execution, but it was refused. This will somehow drive through, and despite the great protests of the European Union member of the United States who is in charge of the project and who believes that it is too short now for the election and that there is something that can happen. It is, in accordance with European Council recommendations, that there should not be significant changes in shorter periods than one year before the proposed election. This, of course, is a great change. It's not just about raising a few on a budget. This is a fundamental change. Of course, there are political problems around this kind of thing, and they are to drive it through the council now despite being warned by the Justice Department experts. It's not long since the councilroom was inconspicuous because we didn't take enough of the experts in the councilhouse, it's just a matter of time ago, but now the experts in the plot do not matter. It's just to be run through in the middle of a lot of conflict with experts across the Council of Europe, just because we think any of us are going to make money on that 16 and 17-year-olds will vote for us in the next district election. There's nothing else behind this bill. There's no other rationality behind this bill. I can't possibly understand that there are any differences between the elections in the county or the Generals in this regard. The responsibility of the voters is just as high, whether by local governments or by the Council. And we will not change this age to the Council unless the Constitution is changed, so it has been important for humans to make legal laws and votes together. Of course it's important. We can also see various practitional problems, in which an illegal person has the right to vote. We're having a bit of a problem with what it means to be a child's guardian, how much more can you limit the rights of the child to which it has otherwise. We can see the realistic problem that if a 16 - to - 17 - year - old boy has to check into an election record, can he personally sue for a vote? No, he's not legal. And if the parent just says, "No, I don't want you on the bill, I suspect you're going to vote for some empty bullshit." That's the problems we face when we're in this hurry. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson. There are certain practitioners. - No, we're not ready to look at it. Let's drive this through, one, two and three. This bill is over-thinking, there's a disagreement about it, and I think it would be wise to pull it back and bring it back later, in association with a general debate about young people's rights. How much they're supposed to be. I'm very into bringing down age for 16 years, that people before take responsibility for themselves in general. I'm just very into it, at least I want to take a good look at it, and I think it might well be wise. I trust young people very well. Much more than just choosing to be a member of the country. I would like to see that there are far more participants in society and should have much greater influence. Of course, young men are quite independent at 16 years of age, their school duty is over... [[He said: "Didn't you start to live them?]] It's just so you can trust young people, and I trust them very well, but I don't want to jump in on advice. I don't think that it can go together to be illegal and have this right, so I think much closer is to me thinking that we'll just try to lower the legal age, to give greater responsibility for young people in general. Of course, that may be complicated. This may mean that we need to prepare it well. But it is the discussion I would like to take, and I see in general that rights, responsibilities, and responsibilities are to be met, but not one factor taken by men to believe that it may be for them temporarily. I don't think it's a good way to work, and I don't think it's a good way to deal with such a problem. I know it's a parapolitic case. It's not a party case, it's not a government case, but it doesn't change it, it's not supposed to be working this way, it's not supposed to be this way to be handled. It should be considered in a much wider context, followed by the advice of the Ministry, why. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir, as the senator has often spoken, it is particularly urgent in this matter, and consider it better. We are not in a hurry, and I hope that men will consider their stand, reconsidering their stand. [[Up front.]] - Well, you can't count on it for everyone here. It is important that we consider the matter more fully, examine it more fully, and make much more peace.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u55	Mr. President. I'm beginning to understand why things happen slowly at the Independence Party when it's hard to change such a small thing, moving election age down about two years with five, six weeks in advance. This is not a fundamental change. It is very important to remember when we discuss this that when the Council of Europe warns about a change in election law, it is talking about fundamental changes. To expand the Constitution by 3%, there can never be a fundamental change in campaign law. I'd rather call it some sort of decomposition. In fact, I don't like the obvious. A senator says there's some strange motive behind this. I think we're all agreed that we'll trust 16◯17 years old teenagers to vote. I can only hear what I'm saying. A senator would agree with me. [[A ball game?]] I can fully agree that we will be able to discuss that matter later, in terms of age and financial resources, and then discuss it. I'll think of the independence party's position when it comes to reviewing the Constitutions, that it is important to make such a review in stages and break down into certain parts. If we trust 16 - year - olds to vote, let them do so, and then consider whether to reevaluate self - sufficiency, financial gain, and vote, and then let them pay attention to it. So I don't see any resistance. In terms of the Justice Department experts, I understand that they were not so worried about this when they came before the committee five weeks ago, but suddenly they have a major concern within a few weeks. I'm asking why. A senator: Is it not a good thing to just start with this and then agree to complete a review of what I think I am and what I do? A senator would agree to review the other factors too?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u56	V.E.G. President. I did not say that there were ulterior motives. Populism is no different motive. It's just plain people's trinkets. There's nothing different about that. These aren't small changes. Changing the election age is a big change. And there are political problems around it. There will be no escape from acknowledging that fact. I even took an example of a practitioner's problem, i.e. ... topronounceit. For example, there is one thing. We're not against change. All the serious changes in this society since the end of the war have been for the Independence Party. That's what I happen to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u57	They've been a little few now.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u58	No. We're in a great society. The best society in the world, some say. So it's all a misunderstanding. What matters, whatever. A senator is that such changes, in fact, are made in an acceptable way. I'm sure you can make peace with this matter. But they don't want to, because they have to drive it out right before these elections.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u59	It's been suggested last year, Brynjar. ...
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u60	This was suggested in December of last year, Congress, in December, has never so far, so I know, managed in March.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u61	This is the fifth time this matter has been submitted. I'm not listening to this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u62	[[Up front.]] In March.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u63	We just finished one this morning.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u64	In March. It's never happened, so I know.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u65	This morning.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u66	Yeah, that's just what they said earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u67	But the bill is just as bad for it. You can't say it at all, and you can't say it at all. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, that there's something in here other than an election tremor before the next election.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u68	The president wants to court the senators to respect speakers so that if they intend to call forward, they will be brief and quick. It's tradition. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] And don't keep your voice down.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u69	Mr. President. I think we'll just have to disagree on that, then. A senator and I, that this is a fundamental change. I don't think it's such a big change to expand your campaign age in this way. I'm having a bit of fun with the members of the Independence Party as big a system leader. It seems that their main concern is that it is difficult for the system to handle this with proper notice. I thought that these were exactly the publishers of freedom and that the system should not be the dominant element. But now, the main concern is that rural society does not have enough time to prepare local elections, since it increased by 3% on a budget. That's a good argument for me. I'm not so worried about that. I think it's a relatively small problem to update the Constitution in today's electronic world. [[For example: Is that right?]] But I'd be interested to hear the details of it. A senator's opinion of how difficult it is to increase by 3% in the technical ideal file.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u70	V.E.G. President. I'm going to read it to you. A senator agreed to the administration of the European Union member of the United States, who was sent to us at the council. It says, by permission of the president: While not taking a personal position on the changes proposed in the bill, the European Commission considers it dangerous to accept changes in the terms of government elections as early as two months of election. The Commission points to guidelines from the European Council that show that stability is important in election legislation and that the government and the Council should operate on the principle that no major changes in election law are made in less than one year of election. They're the ones who're supposed to do the elections, huh? Senator. It's no fun, either. There's no need to be some carelessly thinking if something goes wrong with the implementation of an election. It's a big deal if the election goes crazy, like it's true. It's a big deal, and when it's a big deal, it's gonna be a lawsuit. What's the deal? A senator, then, to tell them? Just: Whoops, sorceres? Let's just do it properly, okay? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u71	President. Thank you. A senator for a fine speech. There are many things to agree with in his speech. It is only natural for us to ask ourselves, " How can I take one point out of all this mess that we have in front of us when I look at our young people, of course, whom we all respect? ' Most of us in this room have children, even teenagers, and it's not long since some of us were teenagers, at least some of us don't think it was a long time ago, maybe a few years ago, when we were picking and thinking in these things ourselves. But, hey. A senator mentioned one point earlier, that a 16 - year - old youth could not charge with a vote. They do not have the rights of those who are now 18 and who are able to do so. I wondered: " If 16 - year - olds want to make comments to elections, can the person charge an election? Should those who monitor the election take note of what is not legal but who come to a vote and choose that something is wrong with the election? You see, I don't really think that everything in this process has been taken care of. I don't object to the idea that we're shutting down the election. Besides, I don't object that we're going to shut down our age of self - control. Besides, I'm not against getting older so that young people can possibly approach something that's forbidden today. I also wondered about tobacco and all that. But I'm worried that we'll take one of these things out and not think it through. Therefore, I have said, "Let's agree, let's postpone the taking of force so that we can prepare and do so much better than it's now going. "
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u72	V.E.G. President. I think I'm right next door. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson that everything that can come up has not been considered. There we go. A senator with more examples than I specified. Of course, I haven't examined them myself, but these are practical examples that may arise. That's why I say, it's almost impossible for me, except by careful planning, to end there in legal age and election. I'm afraid that doesn't work. I can live with that at least looking at lowering the legal age, and increasing the rights of young people whom I have mentioned years ago, that I thought should be taken seriously. Of course, when we start dealing with all these practical problems in the election itself, there will be no fun. And how does that end if the whole project goes into confusion? What's going to happen to the election? Can they just be invalid? Is the conclusion that the project is simply invalid? It doesn't seem to matter to people in this fancy Senate hall. The case should be brought forward without further consideration. I signed a vote with the adjustment proposal to let time pass, let the law go into effect later. At least then, we will have time to look into this matter further.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u73	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. While several comments in the Senate show that the people are a part of the case, they emphasize that they are well presented, that the funds given to inform in terms of what these things are, that democracy is discussed, about election participation, the responsibilities, and all that. I wondered how it should happen at this brief time before choosing. In fact, after a week or so, you can begin to vote for an out-of-study meeting, so you wonder how all of this is going to work out. There's something else that's only breaking around in my head because I don't think it's happened, I've missed it. A 16 - year - old may mean what he will choose, he may choose. But can the person be on the list? Can the person serve in the polls, for example? Is it possible for the person to observe the election, be the agent of the list? I don't think so. At least not the way I get it. The point is, those who now make this offer are merely granting these young people permission to set the cross.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u74	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi's job is to draw out more things that could cause serious problems with the elections. These are all very good questions, and I agree with them all. It's just a question of whether I am or what. A senator can persuade others in this council hall to wait on this. I have doubts about that, considering the way the hearing has been done. I worry about it, and the more I learn about it and the more I listen to others. I think maybe we're on a journey that we don't see about the disaster, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u75	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The wearer of the son of Níelsson for his suggestion in this discussion. I have been interested in the factors involved in dealing with children and parents in this context of everything and the harmony between the parts in which they are concerned. paritaprevir Herves, Níelsson's son, have been tireless as to linking into this whole affair. But there is one thing that I wondered about in the opinion of an agent of children who were sent to the Committee. It says, by permission of the president: Since [age] individuals are children, individuals are in custody of parents or other guardians. It is important that the lawgiver assess whether a guardian in some way could affect the child's election rights under the present circumstances, for example, the access to information for elections. This includes the shipment of target mail, the access of political parties to schools or students, for example, basic schools, but the decline of election age will result in part of 10th-graders, I reiterate: Section 10 of the class - ◆ the election rights. It is important to ensure that, in some way, parents cannot influence the right to vote, the right to vote will be reduced. It is not quite simple to resolve this, since it is likely to conflict with the parental right to this new election by the child who claims to be himself and who is in the child's right to look for information in any way that the child desires. It'd be interesting to know if there's a problem. paritaprevir Herves the Brynjar of Níelsson has examined the subject, because I know that he is well versed in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u76	V.E.G. President. I mentioned only these complex points of my speech that are about to be premeditated and then something that is legal rights. What is involved in parental custody of a child? What does this have to do with our lives? What is its effect? There must be a lot of them. Therefore, I took an example: What if there are some problems in this regard between a child and a parent? How does that end? That's why I say, " It's much more natural and healthy to just lower the legal age. ' Let's go to that job. Is that how we are really going to trust 16 and 17 - year - olds to take responsibility and take a stand that is important to them? Will we really trust them, or will we just trust them with something special that we feel is right for us? That, of course, is the point. We're always doing it. Instead of simply saying, " Let's see when to be a child, and when is it grown up? ' We've taken a decision on this, 18 years. But then somehow we're going to change it in this case, which, of course, will only confuse the system, because we are so great a system member, independent. It's confusing the system. But it's not good to mess up the system, it's not good if the system is fucked up. That's not good for all of us. That is why it is vital that we consider this whole matter. Are we really ready to trust 16 and 17 or not?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u77	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The armoury of the son of Níelsson for the answer. I think it's a reasonable approach that goes by then. In view of the fact that most people do not want to be classified as systemsmen, the systems are needed. There's gonna be some albino context of the parts. It seems to me that everything in this matter is as if people are already conscious of getting out of such a albino organization. I think that would be wise. A senator made a complete review of these matters. We will also need to decide whether we trust 16 - year - olds in order to handle things that we have not given them the right to make decisions so far. However, has the senator seen how long such an opinion might take place in connection with the possibility of now being looked forward to? Here's a suggestion for a temporary delay in validation. What would be the time frame for such an examination?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u78	V.E.G. President. I think it could be taken care of over a period of a year or two to have such a review of everything. But I still pretend to know that those who most support this bill are completely opposed to giving any more rights to the young people. They will never let them buy cigarettes once, and probably not fishing, but it's good to get their votes, we trust them to do so. You're right. A senator says, the albino context of the parts is important and systems are important because if it slips away from the system, we'll all be lost. The system, however, does not have to override everything, but the system we have to operate.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u79	A respectable president. I would have wanted to encourage the highest. The president to see to it that the committee will be called to a meeting. This meeting may be held despite the continuation of a conference here, but I believe it is very important that the committee receive a representative of the Ministry of Ministers and remain the secretary's meeting to investigate the Ministry's stand on the proclamation issued by the European Commission this morning. I think it's necessary to go over this, especially in the light of what they say. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson used to do here earlier today, where he said, "Well, I think this and this, and I'd like to get better information, e.g. from those who have to update the election, about how much this is. They're just taking a stand on a very big matter, based on their holding the other and this and calling for more information. I think it's essential that we do what we have to do. The Board of Directors and Observers arranges for specialists from the Ministry of Justice who need to carry this job along with the local Ministry to meet them to review these matters. [[The president calls.]] You can't handle this case with them and with the language you witness here. [[The president calls.]] That's for sure. [[The president calls.]] We are in such a situation at the council today, and we need to move a little slower. [[The president calls.]] That's why I say that the committee meeting can be held for my sake while a conference continues here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u80	The president wants to make a decision to give a speech lesson. That was 40 seconds beyond evaluated, I think, at least today, if not this week. The President will also submit these indications.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u81	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a bill to correct a change in the U.S. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, who suggests that children between 16 and 17 years of age will be elected. You might say that when the December case is recommended it looked innocent and even I've heard the words of the senators who say that they were very comfortable listening to what they were doing and what it was like, excusing the English canal, pardoning the English strip, ◯feel goodgo, it could make everyone feel very comfortable. Then it goes down and waits, and the case develops and gets better. Then somehow you'll find that you seem to have a completely different view: impossibleism, it's kind of blown on things that really matter. Only a few days ago, men were stretched out by a sense of justice and demanded that a minister of justice say yes, express confidence in it because she had failed to listen to the Justice Department specialists. And what happens now? They come from the same Ministry of Justice, warn of how this is being held, and then all of a sudden it doesn't matter. It seems quite different from the real interest in increasing the freedom and self - determination of children aged 16◯17. Like what? paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son came in here are very special rights that are suitable for a number of people in this room, in their own eyes. So to be told, now I don't quite know the rules as far as it goes, but what. A senator now in the President's chair, in effect, said that the members of this age group feel that they have the lowest support in this age group. I have to admit, I hadn't thought of this place until then. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson made this statement. What happened at the vote last night? I know that the fine Congress party of Pirata is diligent in computer programs and putting things up so that they can be seen and understood. Yesterday at my vote, I threw this into Excel and all sorts of color code and stuff. It was really fun to watch when you started filtering according to categories of votes. It turned out that the greatest correlation was with those who have the greatest conviction that they have some kind of advantage in this group. Among the groups considered to be moderately supportive in this age category, the votes were higher and higher. Sometimes it happens that their own reasons meet them. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson now lands in and watches the President's chair. I'm sorry, this blow is all over the case. This is an excellent language that I think a lot of people agree with materially. I hear a lot of people agree to move these rights to 16 and 17 years of age, but they want it to be done in any way with other things, they don't take out one particular thing and say, "Here, my kids, you can vote for me, but you can't do anything else. That's not a good thing to do. The same is true when it comes to a later procedure. Now I'm new to work, but I've never seen anything so competitive. I just did not intend to believe in the speed of the race. The management and monitoring committee took care of the case after it was finished here in 2nd. It was out of the committee, with microbubbles, 15 minutes later. This committee meeting was called for guests, I'm not using the wording as a token, but the discussion was certainly not as much desirable as the observations made. We had a meeting last night, at the dinner break yesterday, representing the Justice Department and the Ministry of Education. The viewpoint of a representative of the Ministry of Justice, which I entered earlier, had expressed these views in his written statement without doing anything wrong, was put back at a meeting of the Committee yesterday and again nothing is done with them. These are the same agents they wanted to use as a basic reason why a minister was here under a mistrust plan because she had not completely followed the advice of the same parties. This is where we're sitting and we're going to change the election laws just a few weeks before the election. An internal assembly vote will begin in a week. There's a terrible blow to this. In fact, many in this room are sensitive to the fact that criticism comes from a foreign country. Monitoring of the elections has been a major factor, when comments have been made regularly. But now, all of a sudden, this one thing to allow young people and children to enjoy, not all of it, just this one point, is not a matter of the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, the United States Society, SE, or any of the people involved. Of course, there is not an entire bridge in this approach. Away from it, I reiterate that I believe that the material goals of the bill are excellent. But this must be done in a larger context. It looks very bad, to be taken into account, if we find ourselves in an attempt to resolve this issue in a major conflict. This matter will be noticed. A goal is to fulfill, one that cannot be talked about if one is willing to pass over such a splash. Now the Ministry of Justice has been very concerned about the project and presentation, and so on the streets and the same viewpoints were shown by representatives of the Ministry of Education and the Union of Iceland, who send in a very well-delighted review. There's not been a very long time since Iceland's election was invalid. That's less than ten years. At that time, only an entire election for a so-called government council was invalid. We should not be taking such risks by making these changes now. Well, at least not at all. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson would like to mean that these changes are small enough, however, for those members whom I have witnessed today, the Ministry of Justice and the Union of Icelandic rural society, it is spoken of as a fundamental change. And if the debate wasn't to achieve just this one right before this election that is in a few weeks' time, that the teenagers and children get just the vote, nothing else, would be quite simple for those who speak for this bill to accept the proposed changes made yesterday, and a similar motion for us now, as values are delayed. This allows a proper time, preconceived, to prepare the case for the election after four years. If there were any integrity to this work, people would take such a suggestion, saying, "We're happy with this approach, that's a large group of senators agree with the main objective, and now we're going to do it well and get it done. ' But we're not in this place. Everyone in this room knows that. I'm sorry, but it's not about doing the right thing. It's just about running it through with all the available schemes, so that these 9,000 votes will be in theulia for the county election in a few weeks. This, of course, is a approach and procedure that we here must face. Let us do this properly and approach it in a way that requires that we do well. This is my first speech in this matter. I may have to come back up here again. But I wanted to mention a few points from the reviews, since I have a little time for this talk. I wanted to introduce what the Ministry of Justice says in its review. The Ministry of Justice states that the current bill, by permission of the President, has to be handled well with the law so that the change in election age does not require any further adjustments. It has been viewed, but I am confident that it is not as thorough as it would need to be and in the way that humans would do if they had time. Similarly, the Justice Department representatives say by permission of the president: Since the best government votes are mainly at the local government level, the heat and weight of the implementation of the election lands there. The fundamental changes - I repeat, fundamental changes -- the law so shortly before the election puts the risk of failure and failures can have dramatic consequences to the success of elections. Then the European Union has also pointed out in its comments on the matter that it is unwise to make basic changes in election legislation so soon before elections. It is generally considered on the international level that re-election laws are unattainable shortly before election. It sounds like I'm repeating myself, but it's because, of course, all the institutions and every organization that has all the weight on these topics are the same, that this is a fundamental change and that it's impossible to drive it through with such short notice. In this context, just with this paragraph, I would like to remind you again of what I said just before that it was less than ten years since the national elections were invalid in this country because of a domestic failure. This plays in a direct way into the viewpoints expressed by ESE, but in the publication of the European Council of Europe's Union, it points to guidelines to the Council of Europe that, by permission of Presidents, are important to the election legislation, and the Community government considers that the Council and the Council should work out the principle that no major changes in elections are made in terms of less than one year's elections election. One year. It's just over two months now for the election. ÖSE claims that if it is less than one year in the election, you are not supposed to move at all. This is where people are going to make a basic change. Of course it's not working. We must all realize that. Finally, I want to reiterate that this is my first speech on this matter and there are many things I haven't had to do with it. Now lies the councilman's basic opinion. I encourage the Senate to approach matters in a way that reduces the truth, does this well, and makes things so complex and consistent.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u82	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his fine speech. I'm going to say first, if I let my party's interests guide me, I should be the main spokesman for this bill being delivered quickly, for I am convinced that the Independence Party has considerable and more with younger voters, i.e. 16◯18 years of age, but most of the other classes are in this Assembly Hall. [[Up front.]] - No, I think you're wrong. Senator. But just give me time to have a word with a speaker. I'm not quite sure which way. A senator is generally accepted because we decide that an election age is 16 years, not just in the district elections, but in the General elections, in elections, and national legal requirements. Because that's what I want to do. And at the same time, I'd like to bring my spell down. But there's a lot of finger breakers where we have to go through, I realize that. And, of course, a vote. I believe that the normal and reasonable requirement for these youths who are about to replace us, who are 16 years old today, is entitled to volunteer to local governments, to Generalis, and therefore also to the government of the Republic. That's what I'm talking about. A senator with me on this mission?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u83	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason for the questions. I think the best thing to do would be to start work on a complete study of these topics, where there is one age or another age-related rights and responsibilities between children and adolescents. I have not personally come to the conclusion that 16 years is the right age. But I'd like that to be a context. For example, in my mind it is obvious that you must go together, the right to choose, and the right to volunteer, for example, for that is the case. A senator now asked specifically about that point. But it's this tendency to gulp in the system, complicate it, and make it incomprehensible and opaque, which we must resist. It is of the same dissension and inconsistency in national tax systems and reform systems. We have to simplify things, have a more context in them, make them plough. Part of that, I think I'm looking at all these rights. I think this work would be done more than done, without my thinking it much, either the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of Justice. But I think it's worth a lot to start that job, and then we're better shoes in making a wise decision and changing those rules if there's a reason. But first of all, the order is consistent and that one point, one right, is not to be picked up, and that it remains the same.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u84	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason for the answer. I would point out that it would be strange if we dropped the election age and made a 16 - year - old vote without also changing ourselves. We cannot make it so that elected representatives are not financial and voluntary when they sit at councils or in rural governments. I'm sure it'll follow. But I understand why. A senator may not have completely established opinions on where the line is clear, whether it should be 16, 17, or 18. I think there's more to it than that. Senator. I notice that in a Skesshorn newspaper in his district, a poll appeared, with 407 people taking sides to determine whether it was right to lower the election age. There were 89% opposition to doing so in a way that we may be about to do here later today, while 7% were in favor. So it is a decisive conclusion, at least in the ideal situation. Senator. But I also wondered: The Central Party has a policy in these issues, i.e. when it comes to civil rights? In what way? Maybe this is supposed to be stepping like some of them. Councilmen want to do, i.e. is normal for you to be a development process and to have certain rights and developments. I understand that attitude. I say, though, that my experience with 16 - year - olds is that they are far more mature than I was when I was 16. I think it's perfectly normal and reasonable that we're working on this case and doing it faithfully, and that it's a reasonable way of agreeing on what we're doing, but we don't settle the issue in a conflict, which is the worst way of changing elections and the worst way of improving public rights. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u85	A respectable president. So I'll answer it for a second. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason ended up asking questions, but I think there's a particularly bad chance that he can handle a case that's going into big trouble. I'm not sensitive to overworking issues in disagreements. In fact, I believe that differences are good in a place like here. Different opinions are to be dealt with. But so I'll come in like a dog. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason started with it in my mind, it is obvious that financial and self - control and other activities are being followed, for the purpose of cutting to date. Hv. A senator asked if the Central Party had shaped policy in the matter of civil rights. Like what? A senator knows us as young forces, and we're working on it, but a formal policy has not been developed in these materials. It comes as no surprise to me that this poll was published at Skesshorn, where people in the northwesternHR are like dogs. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason knows. At the same time, we must be careful not to swing from polls. Over the years, we have gone off track in such a chase. I had already considered the policy of the Central Party. We're gonna have to get our partners in on this. But because it's a second answer, just to frame it, it's my opinion that it needs to be viewed as a unit. I've probably forgotten some of the civil rights that might be involved, but there has to be an albino context.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u86	A respectable president. I want to thank the senator for his excellent speech. At first, I'd like to state that I'm not going to impress a senator that his intent on the matter is controlled by whether he thinks his party is a profit or a loss. I believe a senator will make a decision on this matter as well as on the rights of the citizens based on some bigger concept than that. I sure do. I haven't seen anything in the polls or other evidence I've seen that suggests that my squad has anything to do with e.g. A young person's advantage; although it's fun, it's not the case at the moment. But I'm not making a decision on this matter. I just want to catch the ball, since the senator released him in his second answer and in his speech. I sometimes feel that if we can say so, those senators who speak against the case are calling for some form of collective policy. It's often my feeling when men call for a whole-scale policy that they're not really calling for anything. Of course, people know that it just takes time and it can get in the way. Often nothing comes out of such collective policy. I also wondered, " Is my age really necessary? ' Disturbs it, e.g. Yeah. A member of the council has something to do with an outdoor period of 16 years and not with 18 years? Would it be better and more logical to establish laws about when 18 - year - olds might be out at night instead of at 16 years of age to maintain harmony? Does this difference bother him?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u87	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. Of course, in terms of curfews, parents control rules between 16 and 18 years of age, although written rules end up at 16 years of age. At least I've understood the principle that way, so I can answer this specific question first. But as for that, as a matter of course. A senator came in, that when men call for a whole-scale policy, they're really not calling for anything - I totally understand the question. It's a blow that's quite recent if you're going to do it that way. But I don't think that when we're doing business like election rights, self-sustaining, financial gains, and so forth, you don't use it as some cheap trick calling for a whole-scale policy. As I came in before, all too often we've gone off track, for we take out specific details from some rule once in a reasonable, ploughing stream, and put on a screen that men didn't see because things are poorly prepared and poorly established. That's what I'm afraid of in this case, that if we move on in the way that has been done so far, we'll end up on a screen. There is no merit for anyone who is involved, and especially for the Generals, because there are now many very interested people in the greater respect of the Generals. I don't think it's getting any bigger with the kind of work that's been done in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u88	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I'll make it clear that I am not myself a fan of global reviews or policies. A lot of times I think it's like that. Better for legislation stability to make smaller and marked changes. First, they are more likely to pass, and second, there is no need to disrupt everything to change one thing. If we were to make a complete review of all the requests, that would be, for example, what we're asking for. Could not change the constitution. This law could not be changed any other than changing the constitution in the process, because changing the dates of elections to the Council needs to change the constitution. As we know, it is a more complex task than a change of general law. So it might be a little risky, I'd say, if you want to achieve any change in how you always have to take into account the need to change the constitution. I'd like to ask you what. A senator's work on details relating to the Constitution. Is it, in his opinion, an unpleasant failure to qualify for the President of Iceland and the age limit for choosing a president not to go together? It's 35 years old and then 18. Would he want to correct that mistake, and then in which? Should there be 18 above everything or 35 over everything in the election?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u89	A respectable president. Of course, it is obvious that we would raise our election age to 35 years. It's the only possible solution to this case. But all kidding aside, I have to admit that I haven't really looked into that case. I just don't trust myself to talk me out of it. Then I would have to examine the grammatical evidence that has laid the basis for this at the time. I have a feeling there's something on the outside, and I don't know it. I hope I run away. Not the other way around, for I have not specifically studied the question. With regard to the scene as wee. A senator entered at the beginning, that it might be desirable to change things into smaller doses, not focus on a complete change or a complete review of each frame of life, I build on experience from my previous life when I worked in the construction business of a very large company called Air Power and is run in the citynes. There we served as construction contractors all over the country. In recent years, we learned of the most small - scale changes in the environment that have occurred and of turning toward a building order. It was set up in 2009 and in 20042013. I can't remember what year it was revised. Since then, the construction principle has been changed six times. The seventh change is on the way. That's not good. It is confusing, confusing, and expensive. So I don't think we should measure the general quality of the company by how much we produce and pay here, although I have made it part of my previous business. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u90	A respectable president. This is an excellent discourse that has been given here in the public talk. In some respects, I had hoped that the discussion would have been greater and deeper, and I had done even more on the committee. As I learned, the committee had a slight hurry through the committee, so it may not have been deeply involved in a number of things, such as. the factors that take place. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's armour mentioned whether the person can sue the election or sue in any regard as to the implementation of the election. And at what? A senator talked about it here. Later, I will review the reviews that have come, many of which are more positive and positive than a warning of certain things. It is a positive review that encourages careful consideration of certain items, etc. My personal opinion of this case is that I don't think it's a good idea to accept the bill as it is today, assuming it will take effect immediately and work in the next election. I think time is just too short for so many things. I think it would be much better to be more careful, prepare a lot better, if you can say so, how to educate those young people who will then be elected, how we're going to make sure that these wonderful people, these wonderful people who will inherit the land and receive from many of us who are in this room and others in our community, and who will continue to run our good society, that information, approach and other things are natural and objectively, etc. This is what all members of Congress know together. What stings me is that it seems to me that the leading spokesmen of the case are simply not concerned about anything, it's just that it's not a problem, it's no problem to bring down the election age, from 18 years to 16 years, there's little difference. There's no thought of it, it seems to be, at least those questions haven't been answered, e.g. questions as well as questions. paritaprevir Brunts of Brynjar's Níelsson rolled up. Can anyone please a ballot? It's probably impossible to do so unless parents do and accept it. If a parent refuses, is the child's rights being violated? So, what does that mean? Can the child sue his parent for violating the rights? How does it work? I'm not a law-trained man, but there are all these things that have not been introduced by the followers of this case. There seems to be no concern about this project, how to conduct the elections, except for those who are responsible for it, they are concerned about it, both the Ministry of Justice and the Union of Iceland. No one seems to be worried about how to educate, how to educate, and how to inform, and how to present a presentation to this large group, now to be elected. And it's nice to remember that I think that after a week outside of a meeting, there's a way to vote, and not even all the campaigns are going around the country. This doesn't seem to worry you. The way to solve problems seems to be of no concern. Is it written in the election law today, it is written into a law on the implementation of elections how to solve it, for example, when a minor feels guilty. How is that handled with the election law? They don't seem to get caught up in any way if the elections were to screw up, if it just turns out it's not gonna work, if this experiment -- it's not actually an experiment as it's put on -- it doesn't work. What? Are they just to go back? Are these the great people to cancel the election? There's nothing wrong with it if this whole thing goes wrong. Neither have people been informed or wondered if they are not concerned about the lack of solidarity. Is this really so small in the mind of those who continue to drive the case that even if there is little more to it, it does escape through the General Assembly? What message is that? It's been called for elections recently with great stigma. If chosen after two months, new things might want to change those laws. You see, they need to work together on such a big issue, because it's a big deal. Even if it's rough. Congress officials try to minimize the comments of international institutions and say that this is not the case, then it is a huge matter of bringing an election age down by two years, giving them authority, this power, or what we call it, to young men, children, and teenagers who are not entitled to self - rule, who are influenced, under financial circumstances, they really chose their parents. It's a little big. It's really just a big deal to me. I'm gonna repeat what I said here yesterday. Like all parents, I love my children and my people and my wonderful boys, who have not been elected but are very interested in choosing. But I want it to be clear that no questions about their rights or how they approach their decision or how they go into this process or take this step in their lives. A respectable president. I agree with the criticism shown in talks today, including When co-administered, the risk was increased. paritaprevir " Of course, the same people who were standing here, who were given the highest power, " said Bergþór son of Ólason, "are very happy to hear the same people. The Minister of Justice for Not Listening to Counsel but then refusing to listen to counsel from the same people, from experts, simply says that it does not matter in this case, it is such a trivial matter, but it does not matter if the Justice Department experts, some of which are the same ones that were giving advice to the Supreme Court. Minister of Justice, suggest that men do not do this, or say that this may be difficult, etc. But it's just to be run over. I think it's a twin. It's also something special not to listen to those who are going to do the elections, i.e. not to listen to the comments of the Union's members, so that they can be maintained. We know that international institutions have made comments on the implementation of elections in Iceland. You may feel that it is all right, possibly making one more occasion. Advice has been given on how to face important and major changes. We can debate how big a change is. I think it's a big change and a big change. But in the foundation, I'm most concerned that, despite the good words of our excellent education minister, who I know is a great fire and can produce many things, I doubt, as great a minister as she is, that she can swear that she can teach, inform, and in reality introduce all that lies ahead for that great group that waits out there and possibly get this vote. That is exactly what some of these opinions reveal, including From the agency of children, the importance of introductions and education is very important so that the children or young ones know and know what is coming, what is in store, and what they are about to do. Admittedly, the office and counseling group have been fulfilled by lowering the election age. It's okay. It's just fine, but it also shows that there is a need for action, that some questions need to be answered, and that everything needs to be clear on how things should be done. That's not what they're doing with this case. They are not about to be counseled by an agent of the children. That's what I'm going to allow myself to say here and state. Various rural communities have sent in envelopes and comments. I already called the European Union a member of the United States. I'm gonna name Gakakakfrep, which says the right of elections and voters should follow a penalties. Here's a letter from Whos making town, where they worry about similar things, that a given group is not a financial entity and is under child protection and parental custody and so on. All legitimate concerns and comments. It also comes as an excellent subject from the National Institute of High School, where they acknowledge that election age will be reduced, but it is an enormous point of importance that teaching, introduction, and so forth are very successful. The list is made up of specific actions that they feel may need to take. It doesn't matter whether people are up to the case or think they need to wait on it, everyone's talking about the same, not all, forgive, most people, the need for a problem, the need to introduce it properly and to teach. It's not expected in the bill, it seems to me, at least I haven't seen it yet, and it's not necessarily in the motion of those who want to be held here. Then there's something interesting to me. Now there is a large group of senators who are going to trust these fine people to get the right to vote and vote. Fine with that. No doubt young people today will be willing to do that if they are educated and able to do so at that time and neutrality. But I don't know better than any of those same members of Congress did not trust the rural communities to decide if there should be six, seven, five, or ten in the countryside. It's natural, it's completely condemned. It is strange, it is strange not to trust your rural communities to decide for themselves. So the contradictions and many other statements in this matter are very strange. I think it's mainly because its speed is so high. They're driving it on to try to get it in the house right now. It does not matter whether there is a solution, what the consequences may be, whether the question remains. I think they're gonna get it. It may well work, and we'll work it out, of course. I would like to ask a question, perhaps myself and a body of Congress too: Can we make sure that a 16 - year - old or a child gets peace to shape his or her views and thoughts at home, with fellow workers, at school, somewhere, is that guaranteed? Is that guaranteed? I'm not sure that it can be guaranteed, but at least it is possible to teach the fine person how his rights are, how he can blacken out, how he can develop his own opinion, etc. The least you can do. But will we do so in a week now before elections open for, for example, an extracurricular bill? Will we reach it in that week? I don't know, I'm not sure. I wouldn't trust myself in that, I think. A respectable president. I think it is important to try to sit down and get some sort of solidarity on how you can do this another fine thing so that you can stop it, you can't somehow squeeze through the council 15 minutes before election, as is sometimes said of a matter that will not go through this meeting. I think it's very important for people to wonder if it's not better to do it than to get busted like this. I've been through many of the points and the questions I was going to come up here. And possibly someone will answer some of those questions, I don't know. The answers may not necessarily appear in this symposium and in this hall to questions, but we try. I'll pay a vote on the case to make a change in the motion that suggests the deadline is postponed, and it is the motion of making the statement that we in the Central Party decided to propose. We'll see how it all works out. A respectable president. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u91	Mr. President. This was shown in the case of a man. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi, the son of Sveinsson, earlier that he felt that this matter was too fast and that there would not have been enough coverage. Now's the time. The natural senator knows that this matter has been submitted before, has been discussed in the past, not only here, but also in the community, and in that respect, I do not agree with the senator. The case's been given quite a few discussions, not just in here. So the speed of this is what I'm thinking, I don't think exactly. To me, the Senate's material attitude toward the matter was shown yesterday's vote, i.e. The council decided to adjust the case somewhat in accordance with the indications made available to a member of the Senate committee, and this led to the development of a large majority of members of the council. However, the issue remains to be concluded, so this group of young people is being elected this spring. Long talk now at 3rd. which could make the matter not go out, because the senators are familiar with the natural time frame we have, including On the basis of a sub-election bill, therefore, it will have no effect other than the fact that this group will not be elected in spring. Perhaps the question is, " Do you want to? ' A senator accepts the political responsibility to do so?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u92	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I think the answer must be in the adjustment I said I'd move here, that the case would be decommissioned, but the change would be valid later, 2020 was the idea. That's how I answer that question. Senator. No doubt the subject has been given much discussion during the previous session. Well, that's a lot of choices now, too. There are a lot of new members here who have not come to discuss this matter or to discuss it. I have to admit it for what it is. A senator that I don't know the whole story about what it looked like first and all, and I don't think that's all that matters. Of course it's good if the matter's been fixed, but there's a lot of questions still that I was wondering at the beginning of my speech, e.g. discuss this if a 16 - year - old or a child wants to check into a book. How will this work? There are these questions about how the elections have not tried to answer once, at least I haven't heard them, whether in speeches or in answers. Hv. A senator said that a material view of the matter was presented yesterday. The scale of the Senate's primary network is that there are three discussions about them. They go to a discussions committee, and so did this case. So there is no way to say that a material conclusion has come; it does not appear until the end of the year 3. Of course. During the council, we have known examples of a change of heart when cases have been made to members of the council. They may have been a member of the case and provided that they were going to the Senate committee in hopes of some change, but there might be no change, and then they change their attitude, etc. So, of course, only after the discussion we are in here is a material viewpoint.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u93	Mr. President. I think it can apply like a dog. A senator said that there are times when a person's attitude between 2 and 3 changes. I think that's when things change between 2 and 3. ... butwhat. A panel has dealt with the issue between the discussions, turning it aside as it were, and here it is. I don't know anything like that. A senator may have changed his attitude, but I allow myself to doubt that he did. I don't know. A senator is that the difference that stands for it is not a question of which. Councilmen are accompanied by 16 - year - olds receiving votes. The question is, will they get a vote in the spring or in four years?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u94	A respectable president. If it's the only material difference that stands out, whether it should be valid today or April 9, or what it is, or after four years or two or whatever, I'd like to say that the big difference may be the first thing to do, that there's a certain group of members here who are rather in favor of the case, but prefer better, the problem of preparation, wanting to see that there's not a major crash on this route. Once again, members of Parliament have been given the opportunity to answer a few questions and questions but have not done so. You see, that's the way it is. A senator and a respectable president, even though the public here is not a big deal, it's a big deal. It will be a challenge, not only to the project, but also to what is stated in many comments, including the following: if you have a positive attitude for the case, that presentation and education and information must occur. I doubt, though there are miracle workers at the council and the Ministers, that it can be done at the time ahead. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u95	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson for a good speech. That's where it went. A senator brings out a number of things that can be called practical problems with the implementation of an election. I'm just as worried as the senator is about it. Now, many who support this bill have given the impression that this is not a big deal, this is just changing from 18 to 16, just increasing by 9,000 voters, it can't be a big deal in itself, is really a simple one. But, hey. A senator has said it's a huge deal, and I agree with it, it's a big deal. This is a huge thing that I know of because it conflicts with other rights and responsibilities of young people of this age. Hv. A senator will likely agree with me that it is mixed with things that involve custody that others have. Does he not see problems in this regard? Or is it just a little paint and a pen dash? I'd like to mention it only at the moment, too. A senator because he gives the highest commendation. A minister of education that I can quite agree that today the Ministry of Education does not have much to say over basic schools. It is about the training and presentation that the senator considers important: How does he see in basic schools an educational presentation? Who's going to take care of that? Can the Ministry of Education do the same?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u96	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. Of course, getting a vote is a big deal. I remember it myself when I got to vote for the first time. It certainly was a big deal for all this group that got to do such a thing. Were we all ready to vote? That's not what I'm saying. However, a few of us who had been deeply involved in the youth work were clearly ready to do so. I don't know how to introduce this at basic schools. I just have to say it right now. This is one of the things I haven't thought enough about, but I guess it would be the communities that would have to find a way to do that. Would they appoint some ambassadors to attend elementary school and introduce and enlighten and teach? Would you be able to conduct a course of oversight for the school instructors in order to handle this? It is therefore difficult to answer because it has not been prepared. There has been no thought of how to solve it. Someone probably just feels like he's worried about it. They're just supposed to deliver the court to the young men and say, "Go ahead, go and choose. However, there must be some discussion. There must be instruction. People need to have some sense of what this means, that humans can develop their own opinions. It is also true that this is a major issue in that it conflicts with so many other factors. There's one question I didn't read up earlier that I was wondering about. It follows that as a matter of course. A senator mentioned here whether this conflicted, e.g. To the age of self-control: Can 16 - year - old campaign propagation be sent? Can propaganda be sent to the person, or is it necessary to send him to my father or mother, any letter: Please introduce to him little Gunnar Bragi so that he can read up on this?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u97	V.E.G. President. I can agree with all of this for why. Senator. In the past, I have said that I am now very ill for promoting young people's responsibilities and increasing my trust in them. In many respects, I think they are much better off than when I am or what I am. A senator was that age. I'd like to see a young person participate in politics, which I think they'll do much less now than before, even if they're even better off now, but it's somehow evolved in my own way. Does the senator feel that there is a measure of harmony in this, i.e. Would it not, then, be that if someone has a right to vote, they can volunteer as well? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u98	A respectable president. Of course, it would be very natural for the person who is about to vote - to set an example that might be relatively unlikely to happen. paritaprevir Beggar Brynjar's Níelsson is now running for office, and I'd be thinking of choosing him. Not that. Níelsson But I'm not sure our views will go completely together. Yes, 16 I could possibly choose the guy, but I wasn't supposed to be on an offer list with him. I couldn't choose myself when I was 16, but I can choose someone else completely. It's like when men volunteer, it actually happened once... [[Foreground on "Air Force One"?]] That is a fine example that is full of questions and discussions. Still, it doesn't improve that Gunnar Bragi is 16 years old and wants to have an offer but can't have an offer, but he can still choose someone, he can't vote for himself, can't be on a list - we need to talk about it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u99	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi, the son of Sveinsson for his speech. What I'd like to know is a point he came on, a point I didn't mention in my speech, but I'd like to enter in a second speech, a case that has just taken out of a environmental and transport committee and a number of local representatives. In this context of the problem. I would like to ask, " How does a member of the former company member of the company of Skavetir feel about the effect of being an experienced member of the county environment that such a change has taken place? ' Does he feel that this will affect the campaign, the way he makes his election? Or does he consider to be a member of the local community that he knows best that there are likely to be all the facts and that the elections alone in basic school with the group of children who are still in their middle school and then in high school, or wherever they are 16, 17 years of age? Does he think the politics would communicate with this age? Or it's a skunk. A senator's explanation for this will be primarily at school where children are studying? I don't think it matters, because, of course, the schools are supposed to be experts, I haven't seen any special vision set up on this block.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u100	A respectable president. I think it's quite clear that politics will always have some advice to get to people. It doesn't matter what age the voters are, if they want to do it, they'll find a way to do it. The question, though, is what happens along the way, whether there are some rules, laws, or rules that reveal how and what to do. Today, it's just so you can't approach me if I know correctly, I'm going to be there to tell you now, it doesn't know how to do all this by heart, a 16-year-old propaganda. There must be other ways. I'm just gonna tell you a story about how people did it back in the day. Then I remember that everyone who was getting a vote for the first time was invited to a ball and famous orchestras were playing. It was over now. Of course, it wasn't very popular to go to a country dance with all that went with it. This was one way to reach people indirectly. Everyone knew who held this dance, and of course it was. I don't know if they're going to go to, I don't say a ball or a country dance, but some of those unconventional methods for attention. Really, though, this is not all that matters if the person has been instructed. If the person knows what politics are and what they are about to do, he knows what is available, he has been instructed that what it means, what this right is important, how valuable it is, how much it is. I don't know how to educate people in basic schools. We were discussing it earlier. I can't answer that, and if any of the locals can do that. I don't know any better than men should, in isolated cases, and around these Obscurial elections in the high schools, do propaganda at school, for example, or what we call it, propaganda. But I feel that in all of this, local societies warn of this and, secondly, members of Congress who want 16 years of age to choose not to trust their rural communities to decide how many people are supposed to be in rural government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u101	A respectable president. It can be said that these views run contrary to whether rural and rural organizations that can be trusted to make decisions on the construction of pools, sports workers, social services, and so forth, can be trusted to decide whether the local government agents are five, seven or nine. But let this now lie in part in these matters. Now the Ministry of Education, its representatives, and the Ministry of Education, came to see him. The administration and observation committee last night. There the Ministry was concerned that these suggestions would not be carried out, including introductions, and how they would be handled to the children who receive the right to vote. If the Ministry of Education isn't ready, then count. A senator saying that the rural communities are ready without any preparation, that they shake out their sleeves? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u102	A respectable president. Based on the information we received at this fine meeting, the Department of Education had little to say on these plans. But I don't know how to say it. But the information we received from this meeting was that there was no answer. No, it's not unnatural at all. It may well be possible to react to this, I'm not saying it, I don't want to say it, but it needs to be shown. I read it from the comments of the Icelandic community and its members that they're not prepared for this, by no means. They may end up doing most of their work at the end of the day. I'm still at the point where I think it's better to postpone the execution and use the time to control the situation. It may be possible to use that time to help young people and go through these things that we have discussed so many times in this discussion, in harmony, where all these permits and boundaries should go to work, so that they are now 2020 or when people want to see it happen, i.e. The big picture. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u103	A respectable president. Yesterday's vote on this case led to the conclusion of Article 1. 43 yes, 1 no. I said no to this case. The reason I'm saying no is because I don't think it can get into the top 10 lists of the cases we're supposed to be discussing here. If we all look inside, I don't know if this case would usually come to the top of 100 because there are so many other issues that are more important than that. We're always talking about the lack of respect for the Generals, the lack of respect for the Generals, much less the percentage. Besides, this discussion, I don't think it's that kind of respect. If we agree with this bill, allowing 16◯18-year-olds to vote in rural elections, e.g. to see that the company of Reykjavík would start to act on and follow a court order in which it was judged to pay for microspents at the Empress House in the University's special mortgages again, I would say yes. But I know this doesn't affect it. This bill isn't even at the top of my 10 list because my case number 1 is older civilians who are starving, starving. We should be talking here on red light. Number 2, we should also be discussing normal people in the community who do their secular work, do two jobs, and even work on weekends for them. That's one of the top 10 cases we should be talking about here. To the top 10, prior to the vote trial for 16◯18 years of age, it is also true that 1,500 people are on the waiting list for orthopaedic surgery, waiting for 90 days or more. Some of these people do not even have health to go to Sweden to have surgery and have the government pay double for it there. Swallowing painkillers and other painkillers can harm people. No, we won't talk about it. We're discussing whether we're going to vote for 16- to 18-year-olds, and that's 10 minutes before the election. Why on earth? We're talking there about 9,000 children. At the same time, we're like... To destroy the great work of Brave Power and the mental force there. It's going down. At the same time, people in this room are talking about the growth of disability. The poor have grown 20,000. Why would that be when 1,500 people are on a waiting list for orthopaedic surgery, and people have to do two jobs on weekends and break out? I would also agree on the election right to 16 - year - olds if it would change something for the boys I'm worried about and in this age group, 16◯18, who are getting out of school, 30% of those boys. Does this change anything for them? No. Will this increase mental health in these schools so that these boys will be especially helped? No, it has nothing to do with it. 14, 16, 17, 18, 20. Last Saturday's Lotters, maybe first prize. But these aren't Lotto numbers. A 14 - year - old, 16 - year - old, U.S. Marshals, a 17 - year - old car test, 18 years of age, can be bought with alcohol. Was this cut out of Lotto? Can we show this group the respect of finding a single number and allow them to have all their rights? The other day, a U.S. Marshal of Children came to the Assembly Hall. The group of children who arrived there included five eligible girls. My first thought was, " Where are the boys? ' And where are disabled persons and motorists? I asked a child's emissary where these individuals were. The answer was that they could not be found. There were no boys that could be picked up. So these were a few girls, no disabled person, and no motion - damaged persons. I'm worried about having 16◯18-year-olds vote. We know that political parties have invited youths to beer and pizzas. I'm afraid that's going to happen too in this case. How on earth can we at the same time as we are talking about this matter make it a priority here? I'm asking, why on earth? Because I know that it is far more priority to correct what the council has done with its legal features, which are the pathetic laws that I have previously pointed to in this chair, such as straightening people with the left hand of a drug grant, a car strength, and then tearing them off with the right and saying, Haha, we were able to fool you. What may be the worst part of this is that in such cases it is suggested that tax records and all over the place seem to give the individual a scholarship, but it is taken away from him a year later. I was reading the child's agent's review of the bill. It says, by permission of the President: The bill does not require that children be elected to vote, but it would be fair to believe in a paper. From 16 to 18 years of age, children are under custody of their parents or other guardians. It is important that the lawgiver assess whether a guardian in some way could affect the child's election rights under the present circumstances, for example, the access to information for elections. This includes the shipment of target mail, the access of political parties to schools or students, for example, basic schools, but the decline of election age will lead to the establishment of a section of the 10th grade. It is important to ensure that parents cannot in some way influence the child's voting rights to become an election age reduced. In recent years, the development of juvenile levels has been emphasized in many rural areas for children aged 13◯17 years. Note the comments at 1 1 1 1. Youth Language No. 70/2007, not setting juvenile age criteria. This is usually in line with the age group 13◯17 of the youth council, and it refers to 18 years of age as having the right to vote and then can affect the choice of elected representatives by their vote. It is necessary to evaluate and take into consideration whether the reduction of the voting rights should limit the seat of children 16 years of age and older in juvenile council members with reference to the above. I believe we should put all of this in one number, 18 years old. Stop with five numbers and only have one, 18 is the right. I don't really know what to say, and I don't understand why this is such a big deal in the world. That's 9,000 people. Given the statistics, I don't know how many people are expected to vote. I'd think 10 percent, that would be really cool. Then we're talking about 900 people. That would be the most optimistic projection. At that age, I wasn't thinking about getting into local elections. I went to school, I studied at trade. At the time, I had no thoughts of what rural governments were doing. What I'm worried about is who should educate these youths about political choice. I would count it definitely with my boys--they're all over this age now, they're not in this age group, but if they were of this age group and were going to vote and I'd go with them, I suppose they'd ask: What am I supposed to choose? Then I'd say to them, "You just have to think about it yourselves, you just have to figure out which category you want to support, which subjects you think you have to choose." Would they, my boys? No, they would much rather play video games. The problem is that at this age they are not thinking about it. I say for my part that I hope we have the courage and courage to say no to this, let's just put it to sleep. Let's talk about this properly. Let's have a good time. There's no hurry. There is no end of the world in sight. The only thing that happens is that there are some, maybe 10%, young people who don't get to vote in May. I don't see that there's going to be a difference in the elections ahead. As a result, there should not be a problem. The dignity of the Generalis has not been exposed to many fish. Let's try to increase the respect of the Generals and show that we are qualified to handle matters that are truly important, matters that concern people in the community that are working, people who need people who are starving who don't have food. Let's talk about it. Let's put it first. Then let's discuss this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u104	V.E.G. President. Two significant points were made in the speech of two different types of people. A senator I think a lot of people didn't quite figure out. They were concerned about the effect that parents have on children by being the guardian. They've been missing that discussion in this case. There is also another factor that is remarkable. A senator came on and had something to do with this, because we're always protecting our children. I remember the memorable discussion that took place around the political elections when the kids were being offered a free ride, even a flight, to come and vote, I don't talk about when they were offered a beer, then everything went wrong. They had to protect their children from this. It was practically a child - protection issue that political movements were not demonizing young men. But there is something remarkable about this discussion, for now all of a sudden, children are to be chosen only, of course not to be elected, but it is quite remarkable. That may be one of the causes of depression. A senator spoke of one number and wanted it to be 18. I'm not sure that number is necessarily right. I don't think the number 17 is any worse, or 16 even. But I'd like to take that up, and of course it means that the people are supposed to be 16 or 17 years old, we won't be able to get them options like we sometimes need when something goes wrong with the children. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u105	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I agree with him because I think that my parents and I are in a position to have a powerful influence on our children. But I'm also in that situation, and I believe we shouldn't. We're supposed to let them have free will and free thinking, but at this age, I'm afraid that's not going to work. I know, and I remember, before I got the right to vote, that I went to a political party, and alcohol was on hand. [["I'm sure you'll...]] A man was under 20 years of age, so that is, of course, one of the things I'm afraid of, because we've seen it and it's happened. This is really serious. Teenagers are so receptive at this age. I also think that at this age they're not thinking about exactly the county elections, that's just everything else they should be thinking about. They're supposed to be studying. They're supposed to have fun. They're just supposed to have fun with their peers. Let the politicians come back later. I'm sure we're thinking about being 16 years old, 17, 18, 19 or 20, somehow I'm trapped for 18 years. But there is no holy number for me. I'll just say all right, talk about it and give us a good time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u106	V.E.G. President. It is true that 18 is not in itself a sacred number. Doesn't this matter to us that there's a lot of trouble with people having no legal rights? That's just the point, isn't it? That's the problem we're dealing with, making the project more difficult, making it more difficult for the presentation, making it all hard, having an illegal campaign. That's also a problem, because it's assumed in the election that only the voters have votes that are adopted. So, all of a sudden, we'll change it here with a single marker, even though the law is still in the other law, but then we'll just decide that 16 years old and 17 years of age will get a vote, but we won't get elected. There are a lot of people who just don't work out. That is inconsistent in legislation. It is a wicked law that is in this way. If people care so much that 16 and 17 years of age have this vote, let's just legalize them. That's the point, isn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u107	A respectable president. I totally agree with this. We must have deep respect for our children by making them acceptable and legal before choosing them. I think it's so natural and self-conscious that I'm kind of incomprehensible that it's not. And the other, why on earth are we not giving ourselves a good time for this? Why does this have to happen ten minutes before the district election? What's the hurry? Why on earth - I know it's a country election, hopefully just every four years, so it won't be until four years, but what does it tell us? This will give us plenty of time to do - what? Talk about the matter, finding land, making the kids vote, and deciding which age to vote for elections, for district elections, for financial gain, for liquor, etc. Let's talk about this and try to find one number, but don't have five Lotto numbers. [[Up front.]] As I'm saying, I don't think this case means anything and it's so far below our respect to drive it forward 10 minutes before election. That's why I said no yesterday. That's why I'm going to keep saying no to this, because I don't think I can put it first and I'm not going to put it in any way priority for these elections. [[Up front.]] I'll put it first for the next election in four years, sure.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u108	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson for his speech. I noted in his earlier talk that in certain young groups, some youth councils, were completely lacking representatives of the less fortunate youths in the community. It's an old story and a new story that doesn't care where it is, those who have a difficult time, whether because of physical disability or for any reason, find themselves in the position of being out of bed, so you say it the way it is. I would be interested in hearing the senator's view of minorities that are difficult to deal with, whether it is scarred by motor impairment or other disorders. Does he worry that they would be even more out - of - date with these changes, perhaps especially since this is taking on very serious responsibilities, decisions, and rights to the concerned group? I'd like to hear a point of view. A senator in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u109	A respectable president. Thank you so much for this question from what? A senator because this is also one of the main points of the matter. Sadly, disabled, motion - stricken persons always fall between decks. When I looked at these five attractive girls with a UNICEF agent at the Assembly Hall, my first thought was, " Where are the boys, where are the disabled individuals, or where are the motorists? ' When I discovered that there was no one, I was quite sad. I don't know if it was fully wanted to get these people in there. There's also another thing, we're talking about disabled persons who may be 16, 17 and 18 years old and, " Imagine, we're saying they can vote, but at the same time these disabled persons are at the job market, they may have been born with their disability, and then they can't go to work because if they have a job, they'll come across a dollar. There's a lot of impairments we still have inside to cause problems for disabled persons. We do not put it first at a council to take these obstacles away, that they can work without impairment, and that they earn a decent living. No, no, let them vote in the county election. It makes everything better.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u110	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. I think we're in the conversation that we rarely enter. If I remember correctly, it was why. A senator himself, in his speech, who should allow young people to be exactly that in line with present rulework and not be picking out any one particular rights, if I understood the reason. A senator just now. As far as this group of people I know he is, and fortunately, some others, but not enough, are concerned about, thinks so. Is there an attendance on these rights? He mentioned before the top of 10. Is it somewhere on the list that he knows best and that burns most of his interests at the council?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u111	A respectable president. I'll get it. A senator: No, unfortunately, this is not anywhere on the top of the 10 list. There is another factor in this: It is also sad to know. We're talking about teenagers, and if disabled, motion - stricken teenagers are in a wheelchair, do not drive and plan to go to the theatre, they'll have some problems. A recent example is that a car arrived at nine o'clock, but the theater was not finished until 9:30. They just sent out, didn't get to see the end, get out with you, you're just supposed to do so well and show up in the car and home. Isn't that violence? But we're talking about these people being allowed to vote in rural elections. Isn't that a little reverse? Why don't we just say, "Hey, you can have the rights, so you can vote." But somehow I feel like we're back at the council sometimes. We'll start at the wrong end. I hope now we have the courage to just make sure that everyone can live with dignity here, as well as youths, that they will be young and young. Once things are done, let us make sure that they have success and all and can choose the time that suits them rather than us because we are to think about what is suitable for our teenagers but not what is suitable for the politicians or classes. I have the feeling that this bill is only for the service of certain categories, not our children.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u112	A respectable president. I can't help but come up here and tell what I think and look at this bill, especially because I'm here to form a complete disagreement on what was presented. A senator who spoke before me and with many of my fine comrades in the Independence Party. You see, I find the most exciting idea that 16 - year - olds get to vote. In many respects, it is in good order that individuals receive different rights during different ages and therefore do not agree that whether they are 16, 17, 18, 19, or 20. I think it can only be a good way for a certain process of development, that's my opinion. I trust young people to participate in local elections. I have always been running for the country, having conversations with both young people and middle - aged people, and older people, and talking to young people about these matters is actually the most fun thing to do and they burn to them. Of course, in the countryside, there are so many services directed to young people and they know them well. They've gone through basics, sports and leisure activities, used societal centers, and so on, and they have opinions and views for which they burn. I think it's so positive and exciting that we listen to it. I don't think they're allowed to vote, either. I'd like to say, too, because I'm a spokesman for children and I've only been able to speak here, that we can't really set that beautiful role up somehow and back up and put people in touch with it. People have their opinions on this matter, and there are just a wide range of views around the world in this regard. I am, for example. the view that it is good to bring up children in a social focus and that children should have an opinion of their society, listen to the news, and have the opportunity to discuss things, and have opinions in all directions, and that is part of their development. At this point, I'd like to say that we're here in the 3rd. the matter of this matter of Congress. That was suggested in December. It went through 1st. A few days later, only six members of the council spoke up. I don't know why I didn't say anything. I'm sure I haven't been in the Senate room at that moment. It went through 2nd. a few days ago. Then one and a half hours were discussed. So I planned to come up and discuss the matter. I was in another position, and I saw that there were a lot of people on the rosary, but I didn't know until someone suddenly broke up and 2nd over. was just finished. People took off the rosary, and there was 2nd. ... andgo on with the case. We went to votes after 2nd. Yesterday and then, it took just as long to comment, for it has, of course, come up with a lot of views that had not been presented in 2 Peter 3: 1. Environment, perhaps the normal process, and we know very well and is likely to be the reason for three discussions with a law bill. This is so as to be careful and to get all views out. There were a request sent out to 323 parties for this bill, and 24 comments were submitted. They're in every direction. Some are in favor of the case, others are not. This may be a good idea, but it needs to be taken a closer look. They need to increase their training. All kinds of factors need to be considered. It is only fair to know that, of course, this is not the first time in this matter. It was presented to a Council of 146, actually at Council 147, but we all know what happened to that assembly. There was no way to measure the matter then. But the highest. The current prime minister of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, spoke for the case at Council 146. I participated in 1st of the year. I welcomed the bill. I told him I thought this was a very interesting idea, and we should look at it. I said I was looking forward to seeing reviews on this case, but I also said then, and I'm going to state that this was May 2, 2017, that it would be very important if this case was to be arranged before the next district election that it would go through quickly and safely. That was said in May, if we had taken up the discussion in May 2017. We are now in mid - March, not even remembering what day is today, almost at the end of March, and it is about two months before the election. [[Up front.]] Here are a series of viewpoints that raise questions in my mind. Have we considered all aspects of this matter? As I said before, I, a respectable president, have sat in rural governments and look very closely at what the Union of Iceland says, and the government says. With the permission of a respectable president, I would like to read a resolution that the European Union has sent us, which says: While not taking a personal position on the changes proposed in the bill, the European Commission considers it dangerous to accept changes in the terms of government elections as early as two months of election. The Commission points to guidelines from the European Council that show that stability is important in election legislation and that the government and the Council should operate on the principle that no major changes in election law are made in less than one year of election. I have to say that, topv. President, who has been in rural government for a long time, is very often discussed that in this hall people often get good ideas and vote with them without completely realizing how to implement the case. Now, let's see that the election for government is the responsibility of the local community. They are responsible for the implementation of this election. They say here and point it to the counsel: it's way too fast. I said in the speech yesterday that I thought this case was very difficult, because just as I've traced here, I'm in favor of this idea, but I'm not going to give myself that I can foresee all the things that could possibly come up in this matter. We also realized that this is a Senate bill. Government cables that often get started in such chronological order, as I was discussing, are produced by specialists. They've already been on a consultation course before they come into this council. Then they go through three discussions here. I feel that this idea needs to grow up and need to have more conversation, both in the community and especially with experts who are familiar with all the smells of the election counsel and all the potentially possible causes. They've been wondering who's going to file a ballot if that happens. I don't know, there can be a lot of questions like that I don't know how to answer, and I'm sure I have no imagination to ask questions that might arise. Also, I would like to include in my talk the educational value. I explained yesterday's vote that it was not enough for locals to be responsible for the implementation of the election, but it was also responsible for their educational duties. How are we going to do this? You're right to the highest. A minister of education came up here thinking that the Ministry of Education would not be about it. I still have some serious doubts. Then I can also say that today, of course, there is no one, I was going to say no real education, a respectable president, but perhaps it would be more reasonable to talk about that there is no more specific education from the public on the value of democracy and the value of elections. The elementary school looks to democracy, but not in terms of elections and the like. We run for public funds from a young road trip school. Our young children receive a monthly brochure that they learn about the rules of traffic. What about Democracy School? How about we start a discussion about the value of democracy and the value of community discussion, and what does it mean to participate in elections? Why do we keep looking ahead for a diminished vote and a relaxed young one? I would love to discuss these matters and how much more we can do about them. It is just as noted here that people under 18 are not allowed to be e - mailed. It's sent to the parents. I get this kind of mail, I have a bar mitzvah, I get a lot of the kind of mail addressed to me and the name of the bar mitzvah baby is underneath. I think there are solutions to these issues. I find it very interesting to see young people become more active members of society and therefore get to vote too. But I wonder, Mr. Honorable President, do we really take care of ourselves enough? We often discuss it in this room because we may have to correct the basics and correct things that have slipped through us, even though many experts have gone over it. Here we are talking about the absolute basis for a democratic society, elections. Have we answered all the important questions we need to answer when making such a decision? What if something happens, elections get reported and I don't know what could happen then? Have we considered all of this, and do we have the answers? Are we doing well?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u113	A respectable president. We've been here today at council members, full of kids, who've come here to study the council's work. What they've been given to see is a filibuster. They have been given to see how smaller things have taken the power to halt a case that is very likely to exist at the General Assembly. They have been allowed to see a group of men talking about their lack of maturity. I'd like to say so, if you don't mind. The above - mentioned senator stood out as different from what I've heard here today, with perplexity and meaning. I can agree with much of what was presented there, especially the need to strengthen the democraticity of young people and the knowledge of young people on democracy and social matters in general. I disagree, however, that this bill is not ready, and I don't think it's anything to wait to present the council's will on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u114	A respectable president. I don't think that in this counter, there was no question to me, or I couldn't read it through. I still think it's necessary to go over this a little bit. Hv. A senator here speaks of filibusters. I don't know if he has heard what I went through in my speech, he may have missed it. I was talking about that, of course, it would have been normal for the discussion that has taken place here today at 2nd. ... aboutit. But a second. Went through here in a very special way. [[Up front.]] That could have been true in the case of Adam and Eve. Um., that's exactly right, and I went over that I had previously participated in 1st. of a similar case that had been presented here, which included six members of the council in 1st. ... aboutthiscase. Two o'clock. On the other hand, a large number of senators had already put themselves on the rosary, and I was one of those who was going to do so. But before I realized it, a meeting was over and that was the result of the discussion. I don't know what caused it. I don't know if people have come together in some kind of action or not, I just don't know. We're here talking about a fundamental change. It must be fair and natural for people who believe that a fundamental change of opinion to have the opportunity to come up here and give a talk and explain their position. This is simply what I was doing, thinking that it is what the senators have been doing here today. I make it clear that this is the first time I have an opportunity to give a talk on this matter, except for a brief comment. At least I think it's important, when it comes to a decision, to lie about my viewpoint and my position in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u115	A respectable president. You're right about 2nd. was at a shorter turn, but it would have been a legal assembly to participate in the 1st of the year. and then this discussion is over, but it is getting very long and not much new things have happened. I count and reiterate that the case is ready for vote. I believe that smaller things should not take over to prevent more part of the council can decide on the outcome of this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u116	A respectable president. I appreciate the honesty of a senator. It is good to have such an attitude. There's a senator. I agree that, of course, on the matter of Congress. What I really like about this case is that it's completely parapolitic and people's opinions are by no means different. Here's just a different perspective. I find it refreshing and enjoyable, and I have every reason to do so from time to time, nothing to do with it. Of course, when the case is finished, it goes to a vote, and then it's just so that the greater portion of speeches, that's how democracy works. However, this is not to be said to take away the right course. A senator standing here, that I have no right to express my opinion on the matter. I think it's simply the therapy that we have for Congress. It is our right to be members of Congress and, in fact, our duty to explain our position, especially in such large and large matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u117	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a better speech, let me say, but I've heard it here earlier today, anyway, from those who don't support it. Hv. At least the discussion was limited in 1st. There was a discussion with 2nd. Even if it's too bad. A senator hasn't found out about them. Then there was quite a busy conversation yesterday, of course not in the shape of the 2nd. but about a vote, but she was very rich, very thick. The whole world was present, but this often includes the best reasoning and most of the information. It's kind of ironic, but sometimes it seems that way. I think it was that way yesterday. Now I understand when members of the Parliament use their right to address the program. There's a name for that phenomenon. It's called a filibuster. I have every respect for that right. I've been standing here giving talks on the importance of filing language. [[The president calls.]] But I've seen it in my part of the government with the government's party when the government's intruding over the council, not just when it's a minor matter, but in order to be against something that the European Commission's authority is putting in charge of the legislature. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Now I'm done with my time, but I can do it. A senator agreed with me on this?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u118	Time was over a long time ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u119	A respectable president. I hate filibusters. I haven't been here very long, but I'm one of those political nerds, I'm going to let you know, who's been tracking the General Assembly. I have seldom felt that in a filament of speech, something much and useful is going to result in a loss to resolve a matter. I cannot agree that I am here, with my speech earlier, to participate in a filament. [[Up front.]] Now I've got some answers, and both the answers have somehow turned to silence. This is the first speech I've ever had in my life on this important matter. I agree that there was a really fun discussion last night about the vote. There I had a little chance, one or two minutes, to explain my position, which was on the way that I would support the adjustment proposal that would eventually take effect.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u120	A respectable president. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator should take it as a compliment to be asked about this. I think it's because her speech came off and didn't show that sign that you sometimes see. Again and again, I say that I have shared in filibusters many times and have defended the right to do so, even the need. But I don't make it fun, I don't do it unless I have a prince's finger behind it. In a speech or two. A senator hears it's his first speech, you hear what he's saying. A senator is merely presenting his views. But what you've heard very much here today is the same points over and over and somehow introduced into all the answers and the like. I regret that there are consequences of doing this now. I once heard something I really like, i.e. that we control exactly what we do, but we don't decide what the consequences of our actions will be. Hv. A senator is concerned about this, and I think it's a financial concern, that there's not enough time to go for the European Commission to make an election like this. I disagree. Senator, but I think that's a grammatical argument. If this discussion doesn't run out in the next two hours or so, it means that two weeks will pass. That means votes will be paid in two weeks. 3rd. is that you cannot talk indefinitely, so it will end, it will be paid votes. I think, in view of yesterday's vote, that the case will be agreed on, but then there's less time for managers to do what needs to be done. There are consequences. I wonder what. A senator does not worry about that in the light of the arguments she presented.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u121	A respectable president. I don't know what to say. My concern is that there is too short time and that the execution, in this case of rural society and possible schools and others, would need more time and perhaps more community discussion on this subject. That's where my worries are. I'm not a law major or a student of campaign studies myself, but I wondered if any of these matters might arise when we handle such crucial fundamental laws 15 minutes before election, 60 days before election. I wondered if there may be a problem that we do not see before, if there is still questions left. This must be the purpose of the trial here at Congress that all views can be heard and all possible speculations and questions arise so that we can be sure that we have good laws in our hands.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u122	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for this talk and am delighted to see that at last a woman speaks up, not to some middle - aged man. I read Facebook transfers that there are only middle-aged men here with fatherly superiority to talk so I'm really happy about it. In fact, the senator's review of the matter was not very well conducted, but what does the senator feel about what has been reported in speeches, when people talk about it as not so important, these are just 3%, 9,000 people, and so be the Šbara-just district elections?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u123	A respectable president. I'm going to start by answering that last one. There's no such thing as a state election. Civil elections are enormously important elections, since rurality is a very important phase. In fact, I think that at the council halls we were found more frequently, local governments and rural communities set us up as role models and give us more attention to their interests as we discuss matters here. That's exactly what I've been pointing out, we've got a conclusion from the Union of Iceland, and we've got the reviews of a lot of societies that some people say: Okay, it's a good idea, but it needs to be considered. Most of the reviews, however, are on the way that this is too short of time now, and that is in my mind the key to which I believe we need to work more with. That's my opinion. That's why I supported yesterday's modification proposal that the law would become valid later because I agree with the underlying ideologies, but I believe that there may still be some questions left still, and the executive needs more time to perform this change.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u124	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for that answer. So I've been mistaken with the local control side. That's a good thing to say right now. The Senator mentioned in his talk that few spoke to the first. I was one of those who spoke, and I was impervious, and I was impressed by the suggestion, but then I began to look into the matter more. I'm actually quite aware that 16 - year - olds are supposed to be elected, but once I've done more research, I feel that this is all too short of time, just as the review says. I don't think I've been to 2. Um, but it's very strange that there was a rapid decrease in the rosary. Does the senator think that such interest was shown in the conversation yesterday? Does this say that the interest was greater than at first?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u125	A respectable president. As I mentioned in my earlier talk, I was just a part of 1st. of the case when it was presented to a Council of 146 C.E. and likely expressed a similar interest. Senator. But then, I also said, and it was in May 2017, that if this idea was to be realized, it would be very important that the matter should progress at the council then, not now, in April 2018, when there are 60 days in rural elections. I think last night's debate over the votes shows how much opinions vary in this room. There's one thing others have. Today, members of Congress have pointed out in their talks whether it is reasonable for us to handle a matter as fundamentally as the right to vote in such a great deal of conflict.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u126	Mr. President. I have no idea that this argument was used by those who object to this bill, that 16 - year - olds could not be trusted to vote for political elections. I've been watching a little bit of the conversation today. Although I may have overlooked that someone had reasoned that way, I haven't heard it here today. Hv. paritaprevir Bautís Haraldsdóttir said that it was not against her that different rights would arise in different ages for youths. But it is not true that these two things must observe, i.e. The vote and a vote? Hv. One senator noted that it was exciting to listen to the views of young people who are drawn by the right of elections, but should we not listen to them in the countryside?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u127	A respectable president. I agree with what. Senator. I haven't heard much of it in this room today that people say they didn't trust 16 - year - olds to participate in elections for the government. I experience it so that the discussion here is more about it than like what it is. There are other rights to follow it, and there are other factors to consider, or that people who have discussed these matters today have the same opinion as I do, i.e. that it takes a little longer. On the other hand, I'll admit that I've read quite a lot of records in which people just doubt that 16 - year - olds have the maturity to vote. I don't share their views. Hv. paritaprevir Páll Magnússon asks me if I believe it is right for an election to be met, if I understand the question correctly. I've said that I'm not convinced that I need to be. I don't think there's anything unusual about rights coming in any step, and it doesn't necessarily have to go together. The route of listening to viewpoints for young people may include, for example, a rural group member. Through the Youth Council. [[The president calls.]] There are also other democratic ways that rural communities can listen to young people's viewpoints.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u128	A respectable president. I'd like to know, too, because there is now a very clear understanding of the European Union's management of the development of this case and a political background. A senator is a member of the county government. Got it. The senator's argument is not enough that this case should be resolved in this way, as it is to be done at the council today?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u129	A respectable president. Yes, it is a very simple answer. Yes, I agree. I feel that the argument and conclusion of the European Union society should prompt members of this hall to consider whether this case is being handled properly at this point with the thought that the change will take place in the second part of the county election, which is 60 days from now. I think it's very risky. My main argument is that we should have accepted yesterday's motion, which meant that the execution would be delayed, so that each member of the community, the academic authorities, and possibly in this council, we could have considered the questions and viewpoints that might arise and be sure that we were doing a good job and making good laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u130	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill that includes granting 16 and 17 - year - olds the right to vote for members of the countryside. The bill appeared three months ago, in December. It's now nine weeks for the county election. I simply believe there is too short time. I think it is wise to assume that the conversion will be postponed and that the next New Year's will be validated. If it's not on the table, I'm going to vote against the bill. When representatives of the Ministry of Justice approached the committee in February, they were asked whether this brief period of time would be a problem. The answer was that this would be possible even if it was difficult. It has been five weeks since, since government officials felt that this was possible, but it could be a challenge to do so well when it was a waste. Now the Ministry has returned to the Commission on the implementation of the election, telling the Ministry that they could respond to a change, which could have responded in mid - February by public presentation, despite the fact that the time for election then, according to the Ministry, was very short, and could have been too high to prepare for these changes. It's been five weeks. The Ministry's concern now is of two ways. First of all, the technicality of the procedure is discussed in a critical situation. Second, they feel that there is a danger of a presentation going to the courts. There I am deeply concerned, that a group of people in question simply attend only to a small amount at an elected location. What, then, is the purpose? Despite some statements, the presentation becomes difficult. It is not the same as comparing this with an 18 - year - old now who have known for a long time that he now receives a vote for which many have been excited, the turning point in their lives. When I talk about a presentation, you have to realize that it is just a week before an out-of-the-crow agreement begins. One week. It's not just a Pearl or a Minipet. The conduct of sub-election guidelines takes place all over the country, in county and in foreign embassies, and in districts in many countries. It's a week. If 16 and 17 - year - olds show up at a ballot because of lack of presentation on their new rights, they may simply miss the vote. They are and simply do not become aware of their right to vote. Where, then, do we end up electioning? What will be the situation if the stage for this age group was to become a significantly less desirable one? That this experiment failed miserably. That would be the result. Is that what we want? That it's standing after that election, Mr. President? Then the project. The operation of local elections is in the hands of 74 elected governments all over the country. Maybe 73 now, after the countryside and the Gardens were united. The Ministry considers the risk of failure to be far greater because the change is made with such shame. I can agree with this view, even though I am well aware of how powerful and good people work in the ideal governments all over the country. I'm talking about the extracurricular votes that start in a week, and elections so later, can get all kinds of opinions on this basis, as I have noted. For example, I would like to mention assistance to a voter who for some reason cannot choose for himself because his hand is unusable or cannot support the vote. Thus, the host may point out who he would like to be helped, both from the election government and who can also be accompanied by an assistant and choose for himself. Can you imagine a 16 - year - old taking his father with him and wanting his help? It should be noted that the father is likely the guardian of the voter. It would be a fun solution if there were any differences. It has to be resolved. The answers need to be answered, the answers to 74 elected governments, and the answers to all these embassies and district managers are needed to resolve all sorts of conflict issues that arise. I just mention what I can think of right now. Here, too, there is the dissociation of elections according to the 56th paragraph. I'm in charge of the county election. How do opinions apply in this regard? It must be prepared thoroughly for the use of these elections by an unskilled young person. But the expeditation of the election involves that the minor, who is illegal, has to waive to a legal election and vote in another department, and he is unorthodox. Maybe it's a simple matter, but it has to be resolved, giving 74 votes, embassies, voters, non-electors giving answers to such issues that could arise. I may not have the answers to this, but this needs to be resolved in advance. There's a week to go. It is worth pointing out, then, that, according to the European Parliament's recommendation, the election laws should not be changed last year before elections. Here we're not talking about some change in election law. We're talking about a fundamental change in election age. All of this is at the same well. Manufacturers and counselors advise us to wait for this change and to take it more and more in advance. Shall we listen to the counsellor? No, of course not. No, no, no. Only when it's convenient, but not now, no. Not now. Some other time. There's been a lot of time for this matter at the council. It brings to mind what I brought up this morning which is the problem of young boys, where I started talking about our boys, but looking at other boys, talking about other boys, not the football or handball boys that do so well, but the other boys, the other boys. The boys who are in trouble. Indeed, there are many of them. There I called for action in their behalf. All numbers cry out to us that boys have many problems, from the beginning of their schooling. They are on a behavioural drug program, over 12% of boys between the ages of five and nine are on such drugs in Iceland. A third boy comes out of the elementary school, and now they're going to vote first. But when should they receive the support they so desperately need? These guys can't find themselves. After high school, there are many problems. Risky practices, idleness, crime, drug abuse, depression, unemployment, and all kinds of unhappiness. No, we'd rather talk about votes for days. We do not talk about the problems of these boys. More young men are killed on their own than young women, and the suicide rate of young men is a major concern, and the number of young men on this planet falls on their own than in any other country in the North. What does this tell us? This is a problem, and we're not discussing it while we're talking about it. Let's talk about the votes at 16 and not discuss the problems of these boys. On the contrary, contrary to the advice of those who say that too short a time is to prepare, risk of failure, failure to act - no, talk of something else, not spend time on this. We have been counseled to be more aware of the changes we are considering. I say, let's talk about something that's more important now and listen to our counselors and experts.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u131	A respectable president. I know why. A senator has been involved in elections, elections, countups, etc. A long time. In this discussion, I have listened to exactly what might go wrong, but I have only heard to explain that something could go wrong. But I still don't know what exactly it is. I don't have the material content of what can go wrong. I'd like to go to this sort of test ball in elections as far as it goes. As I see the matter, local governments and ideal governments are preparing elections just as they've always been. The only change is that it may be a little longer. I don't see any actual problems with the implementation of the election in terms of the rural administrations or the ideal administrations. The problem has been identified with how to teach the children. That's where we have the qualifications for elementary school, which only says that once you've finished high school, you have the ability to participate in democratic society. That's the thing. The minister of education tells us that it will not be a problem to introduce them to this new one. Again, I ask: What do we really have to fear?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u132	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. He asks me what can go wrong. I listed in my speech a few points earlier. I spoke, for example. that the election management and executives, many in different parts of the world, would have to be informed. These people need to be informed about how to deal with any problems that may arise. It's not a simple thing. As I also spoke in my talk, I had complete confidence in elected governments to do my work very professionally and well. It is a wonderful mention of human men throughout the country. I know it as well as hell. A senator came in. I have cooperated well with them and trusted them to cope with all kinds of problems. But it's not just election governments, there's a lot more, it's the managers, the districts and their employees, it's the embassy and the voters. It's a week before the out-of-the-house campaign starts. A lot of these agents have to go to work right after one week, and they need to be educated. I'm worried that there will be nuances when you are taking sides with the various solutions that might arise. I mentioned them earlier, and I'm not going to start repeating them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u133	A respectable president. I just listened to a talk. Senator. He spoke of anxiety and, yes, the need to teach the others and those things. What, though, is the other and the one to be taught? Where are the material reasons for what needs to be done? It's not in the reviews. It's just saying, it's not enough time. That's not exactly why. There is no schedule of action on what to add as a responsibility in terms of voters or rural society other than just taking over the terms and telling them that there's a new social security number on the list: Okay, go ahead, choose. On the subject of the education to come to the other side, to the voter, about the right he has to express his vote on this opinion, the Ministry of Education has already said that this case will be fixed. The basic school has already taken care of the democratic education as such. [[The president calls.]] They just need to be informed that they now have this vote. It's not that complicated. We live in the Internet age, and last time we did this, in 1986, there were six weeks to the election. Then there was no Internet once to spread information as fast as we can now.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u134	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his answer again. You're right about what you're doing. A senator, there is no material thing that I see in this change of law that makes this impossible. [[Up front.]] This is a procedure I believe is too short to prepare.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u135	Why?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u136	That's what I said in my speech earlier. Of course, teaching is quite another matter. I admire the highest. Education minister for declaring it, I think it was yesterday, that she was planning to educate these young people at the time of the policy, a week in the ultimatum bill, and nine weeks in elections. I admire that. [[Up front.]] A third of young boys can't read!
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u137	Mr. President. It was a great talk. A senator, although he did not always get peace to answer for the sake of his career. It's the pressure we're equally guilty of here. Let us, though, leave it to each other. It's good that there's an expert in the room when it comes to performing an election. That's why. A senator who served for less than 20 years as president of the government, first in the Southern District and then in the Southern District. So I think it would be wise for us to listen to a man who is a specialist in all the statistics. But there seems to be some wisdom in this room when you listen to experts and when you don't. It seems to depend on something other than a thoughtful estimate. Someone who cares for you will be there. But I'd like to ask why. A senator because I'm not quite sure if we're going together. So I've been thinking that in the discussions on this matter, I think it's right and wise to turn down an election age, but I don't see how we're going to do it any other way than that we're consistent, and we're also going to reduce the age of self-control and also make it possible for people to be elected in those elections. Is the senator willing to turn down the election age to 16 years, or does he have any other age in mind? [[The president calls.]] Does he agree with me that we need to make sure, to be consistent, and to be consistent, that the man who has the right to vote is also self-elector?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u138	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason for the counter. He asks me if I agree with him on this date. I think the main thing is that these matters are agreed. That a body of Congress agrees on what to do. I was on that bill at the beginning, in December. I'm thinking, "Don't bring an election age down." But they ask about experience and advice. I don't think it's safe and safe to go out in this as the situation is now in March, with this brief notice. It's just not advisable at all. The process cannot be harmonized sufficiently during this brief period of time. That's the Ministry assessment, and that's my opinion too. That's a big risk of failure. The process itself, legally and completely, is possible, but the risk of making mistakes is huge. And there's a risk of another mistake I'd like to say is still richer in my mind, i.e. that this group don't return to their homes because it gets past so many people, much more than the people of 18◯19 years of age. What a huge mistake it would be for the council to reduce election age and then end up with 40% of these people when a public involvement may be 70-80%.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u139	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is eager to know the answer. We're at least jointly to stress that when people make radical changes - because this is a radical change, we can debate about the basic change in this chamber, but I feel that it's almost a hairpiece - it's important that we accept it in a chamber, that there's a discussion, and that there's enough preparation. We agree on that. I'd like to ask a senator: Does he think it's necessary that when we give an election age, the fall only to a certain election in this case is just a political election? I believe there is a need to walk all the way so that people can be elected 16 years of age in the General elections, the elections of the President, the district elections, the national votes, and so forth. [[The president calls.]] And another question: If this bill succeeds, will people gain the right to participate in the election?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u140	A respectable president. Thank you. Once again, a senator resists. I think the whole campaign law needs to be changed. I think it's very necessary for the discussion and because I sense that a lot of people at the council are involved in downcoming election age. I'm also following it, but I believe it should happen in greater agreement, with greater consequence, and also taking other things into it. But there's one flaw in the gift of Njörður. If you're going to turn down the election age at the General election, you're going to have to change the constitution. It's much harder and more complicated, as we all know. They have to go through elections and agree with the next council in the future before it works. But, of course, this is to be shared, both at the level of rural and in the national affairs. Of course, it's supposed to be the same election age. I viewed this as a good experiment, and I began to bring an election age down when it came out in December. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u141	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason for his speech. He came in earlier because he sensed it as a call for this change. The discussion here at an earlier stage would give reason to believe that this was needed. As you've been through the day, and you've been watching the conversations around you and the messages you get, I get the feeling that there's been some overassessment of the demand for these changes. I think it's so now that we should have an opinion of the campaign law and the whole rule, but we're just supposed to make some changes if we think there's any sense in them. We should not make them to react to some feeling of urgency for the solution. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Björn came in earlier today to see that there was a poll in the local newspaper Skessahorn. I just looked at her. There are nearly 500 chosen persons there, and 89% of them feel that there is no reason to do this. My question to why. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason is: Does he think this is a good idea? Does he want to see this decrease in age? Or does he feel that this should be revised, in which an independent stand will be taken to see if there is a reason for change?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u142	A respectable president. I now missed where this 89% came from, whether it was on the Wave, or where.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u143	A slaghorn.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u144	I have now found that much of this change, anyway, in the halls of the Generals. But it may be that I didn't think right. I'm a follower of this, of course, all kinds of transfers, 17 years of age or anything else, but I believe they should harmonize better with other young people's rights, such as cog. paritaprevir Hermes, Níelsson's son, has come in many times. I agree with him on that. Of course, it is unwise to take one part out and move it. As I was saying earlier, I call for uniform solutions in this matter as well as others, such as The legal age, to be examined by the way, and other rights. I came into it in my speech about the position that could arise if the person would show up with his father at the vote, and he is his guardian, asking that the father be his assistant. It may well be realistic and normal, but of course, it is somewhat foolish if he is to help with the vote. The same with the deed of elections as so forth. There can be a wide range of viewpoints when rights overlap so much and violently, as in this case. I suggest we sit down a little later and try to resolve these issues in agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u145	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason for answering. You see, I think there's some opinion or attitude in the Senate room today that there's reason to make a general review of these matters. Well, at least not at all. paritaprevir A different view is that of Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson must live with a disagreement on this matter. But it was fun to listen to what happened. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason earlier was spoken with great knowledge and experience in these subjects. I think he introduced a core point of the case that is suggested here for children to receive a vote that does not have autonomy. What independent problems in the practitioner's side, we've gotten into one of them, can result from the failure of voters to enjoy self - control?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u146	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Bergþór of Ole Ólason of Olei for his answer. Call or not call. You hear things. I heard something like that. before that, everyone who called in the Waves had been opposed to a drop in election age. I wasn't listening, but I accept it as credible. Maybe it's just totally attached to some group in the councilroom. I don't know. But I've had the idea of trusting people in making decisions for myself. 16 years of age and 17 years of age may have to do things right then, e.g. we trust them to do the driving test at 17 years of age. We rely on them to pay taxes from 16 years of age and in various ways. I just ask myself, " Why not vote too? '
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u147	Mr. President. I am one of those who have been fighting for a long time for a review of the election age with the goal of lowering it. I've considered it normal to aim for 16 years. I spent the past weekend sitting around a beautiful national meeting with our independents. There was a suggestion to reduce the general election age to 16 years. I fell under that vote, it didn't mean much, but we who supported the proposal had to accept the conclusion. That doesn't change the fact that I will continue the fight. On the other hand, I insist that we be careful about such activities as others. We have gradually, perhaps too slowly, been moving older ones downhill, and, of course, more people have the right to select elected agents, whether at the General, to the county governments, or to vote for the President of Iceland. Of course, these rights include other rights, such as ballots. I can't see that it can be understood that, no more than self-indulgent. At the beginning of November 1965, Benedikt Gröndal, a member of the Allied Party, proposed a decree to consider if it was not time and desirable to adopt an 18 - year election age in Iceland. This study was to make a seven - man committee that would be arranged by the General. In a paper with the synonym, Benedikt, who later became prime minister and president of the People's Party, said that he wanted to make the suggestion on the one hand to call attention to the other category of the People's policy, which over two years earlier had adopted in the additional council to fight for a fall in the election age of 21 to 18 and, on the other hand, that it was simply to bring a bill of change to the Constitution - because it required changes in the Constitution when it came to total elections. paritaprevir Hjaltason Gautiça - however, Benedikt was convinced that such changes were best accomplished in the most content and after discussions at the Assembly Hall and society. In a report, even by permission of Mr. President: ▪ Since the other classes have not yet made a public opinion, it is reasonable to request an order from a committee to discuss it, allowing space to be considered and discussed. If, in fact, the idea is supported, it is unnecessary to have approved changes like this lead to Congress and elections, but to resolve the matter at the last assembly for regular elections. Benedikt Gröndal emphasized the need to make changes as much as possible, to have time to discuss the matter, and to shape opinions. He himself was convinced that young people, as he said, should be shown complete trust. Again, I quote President Benedikt Gröndalur's report from 1965: Then her maturity will be tested first - i.e. The young generation -- and it will not fail in this matter, rather than in the older ones. Benedikt wanted to give his youth a place in society with full responsibility and complete trust. The right to vote is an unbreakable part of democracy, and any change in election law must be prepared diligently and with good advance. This is what I have highlighted in a discussion about an existing bill. It is an unbreakable part of the election's rights and is the cornerstone of democracy that elections walk naturally and indelibly. This is the requirement that all Icelanders perform, and at the same time, it is reasonable and reasonable to expect us to be held in this council hall that we will not do anything that would put the votes or their actions at risk. We need to be absolutely confident that the changes we make in the election laws of each time are so that elections can be carried out in no uncertain terms, as we require in a democratic community. If in doubt, our duty is to bring that doubt to our attention, to draw him out, and to try to influence those who are going to continue and be brought to ruin. I remind you that those who are going to perform the elections that are the communities themselves have asked us to slow down the door of joy in these matters, Mr. President. This morning the European Commission adopted a book on the changes we are considering. The book was sent to the chairman and vice president of the Board of Directors and Commission, as well as to which the president of the Generals received copies. The European Union's Web reports that this publication would be introduced to all members of the United States before a vote for a change in election law would be adopted. Again with permission of the highest power. I would like to quote and read the book so that it might be made for the council members. It says: While not taking a personal position on the changes proposed in the bill, the European Commission considers it dangerous to accept changes in the terms of government elections as early as two months of election. The Commission points to guidelines from the European Council that show that stability is important in election legislation and that the government and the Council should operate on the principle that no major changes in election law are made in less than one year of election. It's a bit dramatic that we're going to be confident that we don't pay attention and take no note in any way when the Union's members ask us to cool off so that we're absolutely sure what we're doing, that we take into account that, in principle, we shouldn't be calling and playing elections when inside a year, let alone a few weeks, we're in elections. I'm on a board of administration and monitoring committee, but if I'm not aware of it - senators who are in the hall can correct me - that today the attention of members of Congress has been drawn, as the Commission of the European Union asked to be done, asked the chairman and the vice form of the Board of Directors and Controls to draw the world's particular attention to this publication. I have not been aware that anything has been done in this regard, and I must be thinking about it. It's just by chance that I got the wind out of this book and read it. You see, the local election's heat and weight are at the local government. Undiscovered, the majority of the U.S. Congress intends to go against the wishes of local governments, to run the Union of the United States. Not only is it not but there is nothing to listen to experts from the Ministry of Justice who warn that things are being done in the way we are going to do things today with the warning we are taking. The consequences may not be known. They know what the rules of the game are now, they know some ways to run the election, but it's being made up of uncertainties that we don't know what the consequences are. That's quite a bit when we're going to accept a change, and there's a doubt that the elections can be carried out in a way that we expect elections to go on in Iceland, naturally, and unscrupulous. We're going to ignore the advice of the experts. We're going to ignore the wishes of an Icelandic country partner. At some point, some here would have made a comment that such requests would be ignored, but in this case it is not appropriate. A respectable president. I'm in a hurry because I'm in a position to think that there's a step in my heart that I agree with. I agree to increase the rights of young people, 17◯18 years old. That's what I've been fighting for years and speaking for inside my party. But I'm set up in such a way that I can't support the case because I'm afraid that the consequences of what we're doing here may not work out the way we demand it to be. It's kind of a shitty situation to be in, having to stand here and make a decision not to take a step, though it's just a tiny step of what I want to take, a much less step than I've ever talked about, and having to resist because of the way things are going, because all warning words are ignored. [[The president calls.]] The advice of the experts is not heard. A respectable president. It's one of the worst places a senator can get himself into.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u148	Don't be so sure. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u149	A respectable president. Hv. A senator, who himself said that what the experts said was really just: Watch out, we don't know exactly why, but watch out. There are no material things that we need to guard against. They don't know what we're supposed to look after, it could just happen, we don't know what. So I ask again and again, as I asked. paritaprevir Hjaltason Gautaça: Who is wrapped in material possessions? It needs to be explained. We need to fear that this will happen because, what? They're always missing this because, in the morning, they're gonna be fine. There's nowhere to go. Hv. A senator also spoke about the problem with his own age. That happened in 1997. It is of interest to note that the main evidence for changing a total of 16 to 18 years of self - discipline is based on the general social changes. Most were living with parents until they were 20 years old, and self - control is really just a symbolic value in this regard. There was a disagreement between the Northern countries that caused some problems. And then there's the natural child thing. It is also said that this must be done in great peace. That's the main thing. Yesterday, a vote was issued on whether we should lower the election age from 18 to 16. 43 therefore voted, one said no, ten sat by. After the norm, it means 97.7% approval. That's a pretty good deal, I'd say. That's a lot of peace, I'd say in that respect. So I ask why. A senator again to what I started: "Who has doubts? What should we fear materially? What can happen? Not only do we have to shake our bones because something can happen, I don't know what it is. What is exactly what we must guard against?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u150	Mr. President. I just want to point it out. A senator has one problem, and maybe he can help me. He may be able to solve that problem. How are you going to solve the problem when an illegal youth shows up for an election during the next district election with parents, and they want to go with him into the ballroom? He has a requirement. How will he make sure that the person who is not under authority chooses according to his own conscience? How will he ensure the rights of a 16 - year - old who finds out that he is not on a budget and that the parents of the subject, the guardians of the subject, refuse to sue him into a poll? This is one of the problems. Here's what we're gonna do. A senator to solve it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u151	A respectable president. Let's start with the charges. It's actually a saying saying, filing a ballot. By election law, you ask to be reassigned, there's no charge or such a process. A person simply sends a request to the national records and says: "I want to be on my budget. Thank you. Here's the form, etc. It's not that complicated. There was an incident in the last election that became a newspaper language, where a senator brought a child into a booth. There's nothing different. Nothing can be done, it was done, but the world didn't die. But in this case it is very obvious that it is the child's right to enter a ballroom without the parents and the parents must not go with it, just as the one who was seven or whatever the child was the age that was not allowed to take an adult into that room. [[Up front.]] You can't go along, though. [[Up front.]] No, she shouldn't. That was a big deal. It's very simple. I don't know what's really complicated about this. [[The president calls.]] All of this is expected in the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u152	The president forgot to inform us earlier that there were three of them. Councilmen who wanted to give an answer so that the speech period is shortened for a minute in a later round.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u153	Mr. President. This is just what I was pointing out, and many others before the discussion. It's a problem. Hv. paritaprevir Of course, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson may belittle it just as he minimizes the concerns and comments of experts in the Ministry of Justice. Senator... [[Up front.]] Hv. A senator will now allow me to answer and to risk all of my ambitions. [[Up front.]] Hv. A senator will have to respect that I am now on the platform. I know it's hard sometimes to sit around, I know it myself, but when the principle is committed because of the person's motive. A senator does not like what is said in the symposium, so he must deal with the problem himself. I'm not gonna help him. I'm just saying that men can't do this kind of thing the way they do and ignore the wishes of the local community, ignore advice and counsel and warnings from the Justice Department. I'm not ready for that. I don't trust myself to do that. I have a lot more respect for democracy and the vote than I'm going to risk him in the first place, just like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u154	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason very much for his speech earlier. I saw the whole Union account by chance, like the reason. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kálmson. It was not specifically attempted to bring our senators to our attention, it seems, to me. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason to see if he knows any examples of the equally decisive and equally serious comments made by the European Union of Iceland, a representative of the member of the Commission. I know what you're doing. A member of the council, at least a large part of the council members, was willing to overlook such clear remarks as the executive's representative was as concerned about what we would like to do in this matter? I have to admit that I hardly see the situation happening that when an organization such as the European Union is making such strong comments as concern, i.e. If they are all swept under the carpet, the representatives of the 72 or 74 members of the community responsible for the implementation of local elections by the end of May. I'm worried about the general procedure in this room.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u155	Mr. President. Tip right. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason's son is, of course, right. Unfortunately, I must grieve the senator by saying no, I do not know any such cases. It's not just a tip from the European Union Management Board about this. The carer of the children warns us, asking us to slow us down. It is not only the Ministry of Justice, the Council of Europe specifically warns that there is a change in election law within a year before elections are held. There is some reason why, because people have bad experience in general that the legislatator is doing a vote in less than a year's election day. On the other hand, I say that this, of course, sets an example. It will set a pattern for more than one member of the United States of America to follow, e.g. ... toexploit the requests of interest organizations, in this case the Federal Union is running a rural society, which is, of course, a transnational organization that is deeply concerned about what is being done today. There's an example. I don't know where that example leads us. That's what worries me. I think we're gonna do what we're gonna do. A senator, me and Bergþór Ólason, would agree with us when it comes to this, i.e. We are concerned about the example being set. Of course, at times we may have to make decisions that do not everyone like, but at least we do. making sure that the conversation can take place before that happens. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u156	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason very much for his counter-sponsored response. I have to say, at least I'm a little light at what I do. A senator has not been able to recite a lengthy sequence of cases, where comments like these, from such sources, are pushed aside. But there is one point regarding the possibility of a future look at the election project that I would like to ask about it. The senator on. I have agreed most of the way he has said about the need for harmony within the environment that is being discussed. But in this context, I would like to ask why. A senator of the 35-year ultimatum on a proposal to the President of Iceland how he feels about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u157	Mr. President. If my memory doesn't betray me, I think I've made it very clear that I thought it would be normal for the President of Iceland to be 16 years when I recommended a committee 3 in my administrative and monitoring committee that opposed us to going into this direction. We suggested that we start a reexamination of election laws and make one uniform law across all elections here in Iceland and including it would be considered to reduce election age and integrity. I honestly don't understand why we haven't changed this rule at least. down to 18, because I don't have any evidence that a vote for the office of the President of Iceland is 35 years old. [[The president calls.]] I think there's just some historical explanation that we've forgotten to update.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u158	A respectable president. I didn't mean to come up here, but then I heard why. This book was published by a member of the Icelandic country today, as I understood the case. What only pushed me was that I was now enlightened. A member of the Parliament that this publication would have been sent to the chairman and to the vice form of the Board of Directors and Control and the President of the Generals. I wondered if the Senator and the other members of the Committee were informed about the book, received a message from the chairman of the Board of Directors and Control Committee that the program had received a letter, i.e. that this book was sent. I think it's quite serious if it hasn't been because both presidents and vice presidents could be aware that at least when there was a legal bill under consideration, there should be a difference of opinion. Hv. A senator has given much thought to the fact that in general he wants to give more responsibility to young people and younger ones. It's very good and completely clear, but I'm asking you why. Senator: Did he know from the chairman of the Board of Directors and Control Committee that this book had been submitted? If not, where did he find it? If the senator didn't get the information, does he agree with the political wisdom of the administrative committee and observation committee not to inform us about it?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u159	Mr. President. First to eliminate any doubt - the chairman of the board and board of directors was sent this publication according to the Union's website. It was in a conversation with someone else. A senator whose attention was brought to my attention after a member of the Parliament had had had had a conversation with an associate of the Union's local representative. The chairman of the council was sent a copy, but it was requested that a senator's attention, not just the committee, but that all members of Congress be called upon before a vote would be paid. Now that time has not passed, we're not quite at the vote, but it would have at least Be more comfortable for the members of the council who have conducted talks today that they had known about this publication. It's the last attempt by the European Union to -- I'm not gonna tell you how smart we are, but at least it's gonna cost us a little bit. to us to slow us down a little bit. Of course, it's not a good idea that this isn't done, but I don't think it's strictly obligatory. It would have at least You should inform those on the board of administration and monitoring committees about this publication. Of course it hasn't been done to me. I haven't had an e-mail for the material. I haven't been given any text or phone calls to bring this to my attention. This gives me reason for thinking about why people feel that it is right to act in such a way. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson listed in a discussion about the President's conference board just as a board of directors would establish a special meeting of information before a vote would come and be called the Minister of the local government. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It may be true.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u160	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answers. Now it's what it says. The chairman of the board and monitoring committee at the door, and I think it's a good idea to inform you if the chairman of the Committee has received this information from the European Union. In fact, I did not know that it was an incentive to inform all the senators on the contents, but I have not been allowed to hear about it as much as anyone else did. I think it is very important that the executives of this great committee, president and vice president, have received the challenge from the European Union of rural society, she has been brought to members of Congress on the very first visit where it was requested. At the very least, why it has not been done must be explained. Now we cannot say, though, whether these fine individuals received this letter or received it or how it was sent.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u161	Mr. President. That's right, that's why I thought it was right to call the attention of the senators who are in the hall at this publication. I saw that this seemed to go down the garden and below because our attention had not been drawn in any organized way. It's a coincidence I heard of her. I'm not going to have any abnormal motives in these matters. It may be a mistake, we are, for example. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, but I'm not so good at e - mailing. I think the message's here, at least. I think any senator who would like to know should know that this book was made. She was sent in. This is the final attempt by the European Union member to ask us to slow down and move on their wishes not to make these changes in panic at the 11th hour. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-23-44.u162	So that 11 people are still on the rosary and, apparently, that the conversation ends tonight and in the timelines we have for a meeting that is at most until the end of the day. 20th So the president believes that it is right to leave the night at that time.
