ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u1	Borist has a letter from the Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, 7th of them. We're out of here. "that she will not be able to attend next week. Today, then, at the General Assembly I, a deputy of the Arts of Action in the district, Sigríður María Egilsdóttir. In the past, she has taken up residence at the General Assembly, so she is welcome back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u2	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Health, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Transport and District Ministers, and Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u3	Mr. President. I have to say this: I was amazed when I heard from the top radio news. A secretary of transportation would be on the way to introduce a transport program at the Traffic Center, which on its own is a well - chosen location for the Minister. This will be done by the secretary without the introduction of a transport plan to the General Assembly. So forthwith are the reports that most members of the board have received copies or some kind of presentation or are well aware of the content and content of this excellent transport program. Congress officials have seen nothing. I don't have to say many things about how important things are here. A case widely handled by members of the Parliament. I'll let you know that I don't think Congress is being treated highly by this march. I also allow myself to say that I would not have expected it from the highest level. The secretary of transportation that he showed disrespect for the kind of thing I think is in this process, to present this policy of transportation outside the General Assembly's wall before he introduces it here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u4	President. I want to agree with what. A senator before this. This is absolutely unprecedented. We're talking about the respect of the Generals, the promotion of the council and the work of it, but then we started discussing such important documents as the long - term policy agenda, in the media before the weekend, and, of course, questions are immediately directed to members of the board who have not seen, received a presentation, and are not available to hold any such presentation. At the same time, a meeting in the environment and transport committee is constantly being announced as the government groups are presenting one another of this transport program. This is the Council of Transport, not the government, and it is a minor respect for the council to introduce to it all the plans that are involved before they are taken into official discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u5	Mr. President. I have to agree with them. Councilmen who have come here complaining about this attitude toward our government council members and against all the council. Prior to the weekend, one of the Synod's fixed committees on a trip through the South East Coast and on Friday morning morning morning morning morning morning, when members of the United States met with members of the West, we had to provide comments on a transport program that had been published in the media. We came from the mountains because we did not know that there were any means of transportation. I don't know exactly how we should increase the respect of the Allied Icelanders when members of the Parliament are caught in such trouble, knowing nothing about what is being presented in the media. At that time, it was found that the council members had had something to see earlier in the week, but they could not answer because they had not been put out of the council. These aren't work, Mr. President, because we've also had to answer for something we've just never seen. [[The president calls.]] And what happens? A meeting of the Environment and Transport Committee When do we find out?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u6	Mr. President. I agree with those who have come up in a pit, and I want to discuss a road program that everyone seems to have seen, the media, the council members, and even the council members, and you have questions all over the place. I am a member of an environment and transportation committee, and I have no answers because I have not been given this transport program that seems to have been given to everyone else. We're excited to have this plan, and I'm asking the highest. Transporter: When will we receive this strategy, members of the Allied Parliament? This is serious. There is much intolerance to transportation, and many ask: What are the future steps of the government in these matters? And we are not allowed to see this plan that seems to be open to all but us.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u7	Mr. President. It's not long since we've talked about working here at the General Assembly, trust in the Generals, and respect. They indicate that one of the biggest cases of every council, both of the council and of the people of the country, is introduced here; a policy of transportation was handed over to some members of the council for a weekend; others were left in the darkness. There's all kinds of rumors about what's going on in this great plan, I don't know, I haven't seen it. I'm asking, Mr. President, is it worthy of the tactics we would like to conduct at the council to present such a major matter? Isn't it a matter of time?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u8	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with those who have come up here and complain or deny the practices that are obviously brought up here. Someone, whether a minister himself or a member of the board of directors, has seen reason to leak this transport program in the media. We've seen pictures, at Station 2 if I remember correctly, of this paper, but the government's not even heard of it. A likely reason for these leakages is that the transport program has something in some board of directors. It would be curious, then, to know if she was a member of the board today. There were conferences in most classes today. Maybe we'll see her tonight or tomorrow, I don't know, but the tactics are completely annoying, that there are tens of millions of projects in the media or some back room in town before the council gets to see and express themselves about it. Also, members of Congress are normally charged with their position on this report, the informed page of this transport program that has been shown in the media. Is this what we've been discussing about strengthening confidence in the Council? Or is it usually trust within the door? No, of course not. This work is a disgrace.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u9	V.E.G. President. I have to agree with the members of the council who have come up here before me and complained about how we can't see, at least not who we are in the government position, this transport program. I was traveling south of the West with a professional health committee, along with a rough one. paritaprevir Vala Vólva Helgadóttir, who spoke of it earlier and we got this breeze over us tomorrow with the town government in Patrekund, what it would be like to see a transport plan. We just looked each other in the eye and didn't know where we were from. It was a very unpleasant feeling, and I began to think: " Well, now you haven't looked well in messages or where to look for it, Siggi, where is the transport program? [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I'm quick to doubt myself when it comes to this kind of thing. I don't think it's a bad attitude and not a way to increase the respect of the council. It's crystal clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u10	V.E.G. President. I think that's what we're talking about. Senators have to remember that there is a difference between transport planning and transport planning proposals. Transport is a pact proposal to be taken care of at the General Assembly. No transport plan has been established until it has been signed. The order of the transport minister will soon appear before the council and then will receive all the needed congregational coverage. There is no way to limit the possibility of a travel minister to introduce in some way the plans he has for a matter before the council, as I may hear. Senators are doing it. It seems to me they're calling for a travel minister to bring such a case to the council in some way than to alert members of the council. It cannot be taken away from the secretary of transportation that he has the initiative in this case, he proposes his suggestions for the council, who receive the Congress. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] When and how the minister chooses to introduce it must be subject to him. [[The president calls.]] Senators cannot bind his hands in that matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u11	A respectable president. I understand the concern of the senators, especially those who have not seen this document. However, as mentioned above, this will be discussed in the classifications of the board. So it does not change the work of promoting a transport strategy that has been carried out by the Council of Transport. Everything and everyone in Iceland, national, rural, professional, and all its activities have been addressed. When we signed a remarkable declaration to the rural areas in the capital area on Friday, it was not unusual for a minister to take advantage of the opportunity and talk about the main plans for transport. However, the plan was not presented on a whole wall, as one knows, because it cannot be done until it has been submitted at the council. I agree with what. Councilmen say it's unfortunate that this time line is involved. I hope that the matter will get to the council as soon as possible and that we can discuss the transport program and that everyone has the document in hand. [[The president calls.]] But I'm not the one with the media that got over that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u12	A respectable president. This case is somewhat characteristic of the situation that exists between the government opposition and the government's members at the council, which clearly have access to these proposals, excuse the vocabulary here, that it is the Congressary proposal for transport ministers while the government council members are not, quite normal. When it happens that the document has leaked to the press, as it seems to have happened on Thursday if I understand this correctly from the discussion that has been going on here at the council, then there's something about the Ministry's transport program on Friday. It is not the same as in this document that we have access to. We cannot answer for all the information that others may have access to but not to, unless they are decided by the secretary of transportation. At the same time, when it becomes clear that it has become available in the media, why do we not just get the exact same document and is available for committees and members of the council so that we can discuss the matter on an equal basis?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u13	A respectable president. I feel compelled to respond. paritaprevir Ármannsson, son of Aargia. I did not understand his speech better than that he was justifying it, which is a little out of the way. A minister said this was unfortunate. Hv. A senator does this a little bit, and I just wanted to make sure that there is no excuse for behavior that a political process is used to agree on a transport program. All members of Congress know that the proposal for transport is formally proposed. All members of the Parliament know that the process of transportation is the product of the subsequent treatment. Right away. A senator makes it appear somehow unconscious about the facts that he minimizes the matter himself and islittles that over his head is to do better work than those that, to the absolute minimum, are in line with Congress and constitution and law in general. I feel that it is worth specifically mentioning and dismissing from such justification. It's about whether the government wants to do it well. [[The president calls.]] I'd appreciate it if some minister, chief. A minister of transportation would be willing to come up here and deny this argument. paritaprevir Ármannsson, son of Aargia.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u14	Mr. President. I come up here a second time to discuss this project. It is certainly not a transport program. It is a plan for transport. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson farms rightly pointed out. If these steps fail to get out of the government ranks, could it not be said that it is highly irresponsible for a member of the government and minister to blow to a press conference with a hawk of sheep that may never be seen? Transport plans have to do with the lives of many people. It's people's lives. These are the quality of life, the way people get around. It's not a micro-discussion case. It is ridiculous that half of the senators have no idea what it says, yet they should be communicating on this subject with the people and with the media. This work just doesn't look good to the council at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u15	A respectable president. I'd like to respond to a word. paritaprevir Ármannsson, the son of Aargis, and thank him for his fatherly explanation of how this system has always worked. The fact that it's always been this way doesn't necessarily make a good system. It would be good to bear in mind that the next year, all over the country, the number of millions of transport plans in the government's policy on transport. This is something that matters to all of us, something that matters to all of our voters immensely, naturally. And naturally, we are already required to respond to these government plans, which we have to somehow try to interpolate from the mobilization of the various media, which may include: At an interview, members of the council are explaining what is good or bad in a schedule we have not been given to. We're going to win a financial program, like... not in this way. This is not how we do business. It is only perfectly natural that the council is treated with respect that when a set of the magnitudes discussed in this discussion, all members of the council had the opportunity to study its contents in a way that allows them to communicate. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u16	A respectable president. I'll agree with the highest. Secretary of transportation, I agree that it's unfortunate that it happened this way. There's a past, and there's nothing I can do about it. I'm a little surprised at what I said. paritaprevir Even though I may agree with many things he says, the Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, who spoke before. He's been a minister himself. I was with him in New York last year at a conference in March where he went a great deal and introduced the greatest achievement of his government, equally paid. There were applause for him in a lot of places where he went. He had a press interview here at home because of this huge case, just as a salary, which was later submitted to a council over a month later in April. That was not the case. A senator talking about his affairs as a minister before they were submitted. At that time, he did not think that other senators would sit at the same table as he did while I was certainly standing in the hall and being able to pat with others -- Actually, I didn't want to go to the hrrefi, as some people wanted to do there. When they are in a position to criticize the current government, I ask men to remember what they did for themselves, especially after just one year has passed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u17	Mr. President. As president knows, transport is one of the largest projects for the country outside of the budget; it is most discussed in our conventions around the country. Transporting plans are very important. It is important that all of us, members of Congress, be in the same place when the discussion takes place in the media. Of course, it cannot be compared when it is the highest. One former minister says that he intends to present a case of just as many people know what it is, or when talking about a road program we do not know and do not know how to defend or discuss. The problem sounds to me like it's like this: A protocol leaks out of one of the council groups. What, then, is the response? The highest response will be given. Ministers to Be or a Common Assembly? That is the discussion we need to consider. [[The president calls.]] How do we deal with the leak of information from members of the council, especially about such a big case that upsets everything? [[The president calls.]] As members of the government opposition, we do not stand equal to the members of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u18	A respectable president. Things happen that people don't necessarily like here at Congress, as we do know. Data can leak, mistakes are made. How important it is that people are prepared to respond when they do! It takes just one individual in these administrative categories to leak these data so that even if it is uncontaminated by all the others, it does. Then it is very important to say this: Excuse me, we made a mistake, we understand the problem, and we try to make up for it, and we'll do better next time. - Something like that. What's not going to happen is that the government sentries come down here and defend it and pretend it's all right, it's just a Senate thing and it's treated in this council. That presentation is unacceptable to me. It's just not enough. In such a situation, you're supposed to try to do better, don't act like everything's okay, or it's some kind of nonsense to be complaining about it. I think it's important that we have that completely clear. I welcome the few words that have been said here that this is unfortunate. That's right. [[The president calls.]] It is better to have an apology and some explanation for future prevention.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u19	V.E.G. President. I agree that there are high expectations for transportation. This is a foundation that matters to all of us immensely, and we are eager to cope with it here. However, when it comes to consultation, all practical procedures have been followed in this regard. Transport has passed through the country and consulted with all the economists, both rural and rural governments, national and non-party organizations. So it's all been followed. It will never be taken away from a minister that he has full permission to report his emphasis and is entitled to do so. Surely it is unfortunate that this has become leak; I agree with it. There is something that we may need to deal with in this room, for we need to have confidence in this discussion of growing trust. But the fact that a minister has gone something wrong, I can't agree at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u20	V.E.G. President. I come back up here to tell me that I couldn't quite figure out what this fatherly explanation was all about. paritaprevir Ármannsson, son of Aargis, but I'm sure I will. I thought it'd be nice to hear from the top. Ministers say it's unfortunate. Of course it's very unfortunate, but I don't think that explanation is good enough either. When you take over to the bridge of an old ship that is the national sink, there is a great chance that it will leak. So this leak was, in fact, anticipated. That's all I have to say about.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u21	Mr. President. I can agree with anything or most of what has been said here. Now it's got the highest. There's a minister up there who says this is unfortunate. We can then react. The fact is, we've been getting calls from reporters asking us to give answers or to consider the other things involved, but we have to reject them and point out that we do not know. In addition, the main meetings of part of the country have been held where we meet the local government and are called for answers. That is most unfortunate when some of the representatives are able to attend these meetings with answers and others are not able to do so. I feel that a minister who has now said that this is unfortunate should simply react in a way that he just published it and sent us today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u22	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying something like that. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé said; he advised us fatherly that we should be consistent with ourselves in a lawsuit here at the council and not take up the wish to change our mind or to have another argument in a lawsuit. I thought this was a very good tip. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé is a special example in this, as we have all noticed. He speaks in exactly the same way about the works of the government, in the same balanced, reasonable way that he feels when he was in a position of government. We can learn much from what happened. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u23	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with that as a dog. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einarsson came in here. I myself showed up at a meeting of part of the country and was insisted on answering. I couldn't tell them more than anything about the Minister's plan. Of course, I could not begin to introduce a road program, where neither did I. I just want to stress that it's unfortunate to be in this timeline. I will do everything possible to get these data to the council as soon as possible. Nevertheless, the case is discussed in the board of directors, and I think it might be normal now before the whole transport program is released to the council that the coverage will be completed there. Of course, it would be in the palm of the hand to arrange for a meeting on the environment and transport committee to review these key points, to form in the morning if there was a flat surface. If there is a way that we all sit on the same table and then we can discuss a transportation plan, I will be able to make sure that it is the very contents of it, which is much more interesting than form. [[The president calls.]] But the form has been unfortunate.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u24	Mr. President. I also agree that it is not good when information is intended to keep confidential about going to the media. We have experienced this in committee work, and we now experience this in connection with the transport program. It's more than unfortunate, it's kind of impossible that it's the way it is. This is what we have to do. We have to act and make something better. Hv. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einar Einarsson mentioned a part of the country meeting. I've attended a national meeting both on the east and north, and I believe I'm a member of the Continental Guard. The senator can witness as we sat on a table together and were wondering that we said the plan was not published, that it was still under discussion in the General Assembly and that we couldn't answer it. Of course, it is boring when people have seen something in print. Just to have said that, we haven't, despite certain knowledge, said anything we weren't supposed to say because things have not yet come through the council. They're still under discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u25	A respectable president. On average, two Icelanders die a week because of an addiction. These are over 100 individuals a year. That's a fact. During the early part of the year, some 30 people died because of addiction. They were in their early teens. We know it was unprecedented after a crash. Of course, many people had to take an injury - both sides had to be cut off in every government. That is also a fact. Yet, the fact is that the FEW has not been corrected since a collapse. In their contracts with Iceland's Medical Insurance, there should be an end to some 278 million now. K., just to today, if the sea should be held in comparison to that when cut down in such a sly way after the collapse. The drug problem has never been more. The list has never been longer, nearly 600 persons waiting for the admission to the Veng, there are 530 persons paid for by the state, 53% of all those who come to emergency hospital at Vog from the Land Hospital of University Hospital and other public institutions. I'm asking the highest. Minister: What is going on in this regard? What is really going on in these matters when we know that every drug patient needs to take advantage of a situation in the U.S.A.? They are the professional people we have spent decades, over 25,000 Icelanders have taken advantage of resources and medical care for the U.S.A. A respectable president. What's the highest. While our people die around here, a health minister should do so?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u26	A respectable president. Well, that's a problem, I thank you very much. A senator for bringing up this urgent community project. When you discuss these matters, I think it would be important to keep the whole project under control. Not only do we need to take care of our treatments but we also need to be careful about how to prevent them. It has been very important to think recently that when it comes to understanding the risks involved, we need to increase a great deal of the prevention and support of children and young people, especially regarding the use of prescription medicines. There we have seen a complete change in the consumption of children and young people, who we must act quickly and safely and likely by some kind of national or collective campaign to help strengthen the awareness of those in danger. I've had conversations, including. With Einar Darri's family, this family has been in the state's sympathy for promoting consciousness in the community and has personally met an enormous number of children and young people in high school. They have even resolved to meet every single class in Iceland, every single class in U.S. high school to discuss this matter with you, because they think it matters, i.e. that we need to face people and talk to them and that these traditional efforts are inadequate. Because of what? A senator in particular asks me a special concern about the young people, the members of the U.S.A. have said that they no longer want to receive, i.e. people who are under 18 years of age. [[The president calls.]] That is why we put the matter first, but considering that in the United States there is an enormous level of expertise in that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u27	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer, once again, was nonfictional. I was particularly referring to the amount of money available, 278 million, who have not paid themselves to the health insurance in the form of the service contract made at the U.S.A. As a result, there is also talk about prevention, what health - care ministers themselves are doing about prevention. The reason that the U.S.A. spoke of not being able to receive individuals under the age of law simply followed what the health minister himself had said, that it may not be appropriate for individuals of minor age to be treated in such an institution. I say again, I'll say it's better if it's enough. When you're talking about just SAU, there's no 'HE's. FEW people are the people who care for almost all the drug addicts in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u28	A respectable president. I've had good relations with the U.S., and I'm going to be here until now. Hv. A senator refers to this when the U.S.A. reported this assignment, i.e. caring for children and young people under 18 years of age. It was not revealed in the report that it was based on the words of the person listed here, in short notice to the Ministry of Health. There are new information for me if it is. I can't figure it out if I do. A senator has become a special speaker in these matters, but I believe in the U.S.A., and I believe that it is a responsible institution, that Vog is. When I get a report that the Agency doesn't feel that it has the strength to be able to handle this group so adequately, in accordance with the community discussion, I must take note of the report made by the United States. On the other hand, they are members of a conversation with us about options for this group.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u29	Mr. President. Social projects are many. One of them is health care. It's a complex and complex thing to do. In order to succeed, many people will have to make their way out in different ways. Hospital transport is one of the important links in health care that citizens rely on, both in the urban areas and especially in the country. This service complies with regulations on health care and regulations No. 262/2011. The importance of this is further emphasized by key medical design, but ambulance crews are well - trained health professionals and are likely to face crucial challenges. Some time ago, the media reported that there was still an unsolved dispute over this service between the Red Cross of Iceland and the Ministry and that the urgent renewal of cars and equipment was still ahead. No contracts would be in force between these parties, and this would have been the case since 2016. Now it would be so late that the Red Cross, from its point of view, wanted to get out of this service and look for a renovations after more than 90 years of continuous service, where the Red Cross has built up and developed this activity nationally. As stated, the debate, including the U.S. the holding of cars, but because of the situation, no new cars have been bought since 2015. So I'm asking a minister what the real situation is. Are negotiations with the Red Cross, or are other parties, privates, or territories of this service? Who are these parties? What is the nature of this preparation? When such a significant change is made in the ministry that has been beneficial for nearly 100 years, there must be some disagreement, either by the performance of the ministry or by the cost of it. Which is it? How much is saved by rejecting a contract with the Red Cross and giving it to another person? What's the amount each year's basis?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u30	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. I think it's very important to keep it in place when we talk about transportation that they are an important part of the medical profession. It is not just about bringing in sick or injured persons; it is especially about giving often the first help and the first aid in the field. This has been discussed in reports. I even got one. A report to the hospital flights and hospital choppers, etc. so it's under the big reexamination. When we are contaminating the health - care systems, reducing their numbers, and creating clinics in the medical field, the issue is that the pressures of emergency transport must be increased. That's the way it has been. Because of what? A senator specifically asks about contact with the Red Cross is the right thing to say in his introduction that certain aspects of the relationship between the state and the Red Cross have been divided for a long time. That disagreement had lasted longer than I have been serving as a health minister. But the situation stands, so we are just looking for ways to settle matters, i.e. reaching a common understanding of the value below, as well as a favorable and practical contribution to the financial relations that have been there, especially with regard to the State's contribution to an ambulance fund, which is funded to provide a source of money for new cars. These communications are now taking place during these weeks and months. For my part, I agree with the view that these reconciliation efforts that have been carried out with the third party need the time it takes to run out before the next step. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u31	A respectable president. You're right, it takes more than just driving the cars. It is often, and now without exception, well - educated individuals who care for this service and have many significant studies. I miss the fact that a minister should not mention whether any risk assessment or cost has been made in the case of this change. This service is based on a very solid foundation in the Red Cross, to the greater extent, one of the identifying marks of the Red Cross over the years. This is a non-profit organization that may be part of the so - called Third Sector. I believe there is a need for flexibility and cooperation with this third sector, well defined, in the near future. I just repeat my question, how much is this going to cost?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u32	A respectable president. I don't have those numbers as numbers. A senator asks for a quick room during an unprepared question period. I think he might well ask for answers through a written request. Otherwise, I will call for this information and bring it to him if he would. Hv. A senator talks about flexibility. I think it is very important to consider this particular service, as in the case of all health care, but in this case, according to the Ministry's opinion, to make a decision about the next steps, which led to this turn. I want to know in my answer that I am a part of myself very conscious of the need for increased funds to transport in general, and therefore in financial terms - it can be seen in the proposal of a financial minister for funding - an additional amount for medical transportation up to 200 million. K. [[The president calls.]] I hope we can do better in securing business environments for aid transport, especially in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u33	Mr. President. Iceland's Deaf and Speech Center is the center of knowledge in hearing and speech disorders in Iceland. The station provides a meaningful service at a national level, its role in serving those who are deaf, or who suffer from speech disorders. The role of the Agency is defined in the law. The main work factors are: performing audiological testing, diagnosis and treatment of hearing and speech lesions, providing professional advice and training and rehabilitation of the deaf, hearing impaired, and those with hearing and speech lesions, working for the prevention of their field and providing aid. In addition, the Agency provides training and training in the use of tools, their maintenance and installation. The program also consists of research and education in its field of work. The importance of the station has been mainly reduced in recent years. According to the World Health Organization, the proportion of hearing impaired is about 16%. About 5% of the Icelanders need hearing aids and have more than 9,000 people hearing aids. About 70% of them are 67 years of age and 7% are children under 18 years of age. The percentage of the elderly is progressively increasing, while about 12% of the elderly are hearing impaired. The group requiring the services of the hearing and speech centre is therefore growing. Each year more than 12,000 visits to the station are made to the next budget of 416 million. K. On the other hand, it is, at the highest. Healthcare Minister, it's a long waiting period for the Agency's services. I know an example of a person waiting seven months for an examination to get a new earpiece. For this large group, how shocking it is that this is the way the service is done! So I want to ask the highest. Minister: What causes this long wait period? What enables a minister to support himself in this endeavor?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u34	A respectable president. This question is very important, especially because hearing impairment is an invisible disability, so to speak. It is difficult to discern both to a person who is at work or at school, or what it is, how difficult it is to deal with a problem of hearing loss. It applies not only to older ones but also to those who struggle with them. Happily, though, the advances in technology have been dramatic in these matters. Hv. A senator specifically asks for the maintenance of hearing aids. I've got tips and queries from people who have been waiting for a long time, such as the dog. There's a senator here. I called them up for information from the Agency to see if there were any specific criteria for making decisions on how to proceed according to the situation. I was told that it was, that there were standards that would be followed as often as possible. The problem has not only been technical but also in the case ofraptologists. Some weeks ago, we confirmed that hearing experts have become legally validated by the medical profession. That's important. But we need to have more headphones in Iceland. We haven't graduated hearing experts for years, but the Agency, in spite of its small size, has been incredibly powerful in innovation and evolution, e.g. in a distant health care program that is even mild - tempered. that to assess and measure the status of hearing equipment over the Internet, across the country, which is a very important way to provide services to people with hearing aids from a hearing and speech clinic. There's a lot going on in this institution, but I'm sure you can do even better. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u35	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, good answer. It is good that she is aware of this long wait period and has sought answers in that regard. This is something we need to add, and a minister came in handy. The minister also mentioned the country area, where this service is also very important, and we need to strengthen it. There is also a need to improve the support of caregivers, such as psychological and social services, as well as increased education and research, and especially because more and more young people have impaired hearing because of noise from the environment and music. Improved studies of the social effects of hearing impaired elderly and improved cooperation with nursing homes and homes are also needed. Therefore, there are many things that need to be added to the function of this important channel. [[The president calls.]] She'll do well, however, I'll agree, but I expect a minister to follow what I mentioned here and trust and believe she will.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u36	A respectable president. It's so convenient that, in the meantime, I could access information from the Ministry, which is a little clearer. Waiting lists vary according to the request. If only a hearing check, there is no waiting time. If you have a hearing examination and an interview with your doctor, you may have up to one month before waiting. However, hearing examination, interviewing a doctor, and reimbursement of hearing devices may require an even longer waiting period. According to the Agency's guidelines, this should not be longer than six months, although both of us, me and the year. Senator, we've heard examples of a longer wait. The lack of hearing experts may be the biggest variable there is, as I mentioned, a lack of Icelandic hearing experts. While we have received hearing experts from outside the home, it is important that the individual be able to communicate freely with the one seeking the ministry. Young children with hearing impairment are put in top priority, just to be perfectly clear. Other than that, the language center does not prioritize by age, but it aims to provide special attention to children who are still in the language, I do not talk about those who may be able to use signed language in addition to expression. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u37	President. The minister of health is very popular today. September 1st. published on the board of directors' Regulation for reports to the National Institute for the launch of electric cigarettes and the refill of nicotine-containing generators. The protocol is supported by the new electric laws and refills for the ones we agreed on in spring. The legislation will take effect on March 1, 2019, which is expected to be due to the import of new products for the purpose of the marketing authorisation within six months. The handling of currency has now been discussed. In the Regulation it is assumed that 75,000 will be paid prior to each announcement. This means that for every retailer to import, he needs to send a special announcement and pay this fee for. This amount seems to be designed to make it quite impossible for those who import this liquid to continue their business venture, at least Compared to the number of stores in today's stores. A statement by the professional driver's partner today says that the Society sent a letter to the Ministry of Health where it is described that the extra cost for the normal electric special store could be costing 60 to 100 million. K. The Society considers it an attempt to choke the sector during childbirth, and he also notes that electric cigarettes helped reduce the number of tobacco smokers, which is likely to be positive. I'm asking the highest. Minister: took out some diagnostic work on the effects this directive might have on stores and e.g. ... ontheexperience of the electricites, mostly electric overletts? Today, foreign studies have shown that the flavor of nicotine activities and their diversity play a major role in changing tobacco smoking to electric cigarettes, which must be desirable because of the fact that harmful demolitions are clearly involved. That's the first question.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u38	A respectable president. I'm aware of this concern, and although I haven't yet seen the letter as yet. A candidate mentioned from the professional driver's Society has been in an informal relationship with me, and I have also met with one particular amateur on these matters, on the content and content of the Regulation, and particularly on the part that targets the permit fee for each barmark, as I understand it. That's 75,000 bucks. which is naturally a very large amount of money for a store with a large selection, as I understand it. The aim of this announcement is to ensure the safety of the product, but so far there has been no monitoring of electronics and refills. We're gonna go for a second. A senator knows that the Regulation is intended to correct this situation. On the other hand, as matters are done today, there are an enormous number of retailers selling this product. Under the circumstances when the market had become mature, it might have been possible. to discuss some sort of collective sale that would import the product and pay this price, once the market has settled better, we can say, when the law has begun to go into effect, etc. The order is on a steady schedule, and we are considering the comments that are coming, including the following: They're as good as dead. A senator refers to him. I don't know that there have been certain diagnostic or special jobs, but there have been dealings with those involved in the surveillance role and, at the same time, the cost is low because it requires natural work and human beings every day. [[The president calls.]] There's two sides of this, really.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u39	President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I wonder, I'm just so curious, why this way is gone. In contrast with tobacco products, there is no notice charge. It's a natural tax that goes on that's pretty high. But why this route? I ask if a minister will be guided by this work to ensure that there is diversity, that this will not have the effect that if a collective dealer has come, he will have much less choice of flavours available. Is it above a minister's head something to worry about or to worry about? Perhaps it would be nice to hear if a minister thinks that electric cigarettes over his head are a powerful decomposed measures that should approach, and therefore make sure that they are available and varied flavors exist so that we are building laws and rules for the scientific community that exist.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u40	A respectable president. Absolutely, I agree with it. One senator says, electric cigarettes are a very powerful debacle and an important way to break free from nicotine addiction. We have very many examples of this and research as well. But as we both know, me and what. A senator, we attempted to make sure that the product is not too accessible for children and young people, etc., there was a point of view there. The point may be to ensure the quality and safety of this product on the market. Hv. A senator specifically asks about tobacco and not charge for reported tobacco. That's because there's only a very small amount of new products on the market, there's two very different markets. We're actually starting to watch this product on the market after the law has gone into effect. That explains the difference. [[The president calls.]] But especially in the case of tobacco, it's not on my side.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u41	A respectable president. I may have to start by saying I'm sorry for not being able to return the highest. Department of Health for the full house of inquiry. I feel like I'm breaking some prize round at the Minister's. [[Up front.]] [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] In spring, the commission on money policy received a very interesting report on options that are, in fact, within the narrow range that was named; it turned to many opinions about the benefits we face when it comes to independent money policy and, in particular, money policy compared with the Icelandic crown. This report is a fine price and many interesting items, but I certainly miss that the discussion about it was no more than it really is, perhaps especially now that we see how fragile our little coin is. We saw this clearly during the days, when there was fear of financing on a large airline, that the dollar went on a fly, and it actually started back in a sick phase now, it seems to me, with the related cost to the public in the country; inflation ratings to get worse; banks have begun to announce the ups of unscrupulous loans during the past few days because of this. It is clear that this important issue, probably one of the most important issues involved in the economic and well - being of Icelandic households, has to be taken much more seriously than has been done. That is why we have at the Council Hall for a special discussion about this fine conference report, but we have to admit that we have had a tough time finding answers to the answers about the possibility of time. This request for a special discussion was submitted to the highest level. Prime Minister immediately at the assembly. My first question to the highest. The prime minister is: Is it not time to discuss this fine report at the council?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u42	Mr. President. I want to thank you first. A senator in particular for this inquiry and that he directed it to me and not to the highest degree. A health minister, as fine as she is, would be nice to have a little distribution here during the entertainment. Thank you. A senator for the record. I'm just gonna start by telling them why. This is the first thing I hear about this request for a special discussion. I am always prepared to attend a special discussion at the council and suggest that we do so. A senator will discuss with me the timing of such discussions, which I hope may be as soon as possible, but for some reason I have not received this request from the council office. Then I'd like to say about the report that I agree with that. A senator says it is important that we discuss this precisely. These matters were only part of the discussion, I guess they were about the budget bill the other day, and I called for us to take the time to discuss the results of the report. Hv. One senator wrote: "The committee was narrowly tailored. It is true that the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures says that it should be based on the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures. A senator was then the highest. A minister of the government who appointed this committee to cut off this narrow sting that he makes here for publicity. It specifically discussed ideas on the use of currency as a matter of course. A senator has spoken in advance and had a very misunderstanding, can we say, suggestions on that. One of the foreign counselors who returned a report by the Committee, Jonung, if I recall correctly, which was chosen specifically for this project that, we can say, a sponsor of the currency scheme, suggested it, while other foreign counselors advised against it. I think it would be very good for the council to go through that discussion. The conclusion of the European Commission was not to recommend these advantages. It is still my conclusion that Iceland's options for money are on the other hand, with a clearer framework of money policy, or that it is entering an alliance that is closer to entering the European Union and recording euro, which is a much larger question than it was to protect only the money policy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u43	President. To make sure, I misjudged my previous talk, the request turned to a special discussion of a report, not a special discussion, but we figure it out.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u44	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u45	I think it's very important to take this discussion here at the council, because the question that has to do with the ambiguity of the crown and the high interest here, which we see is to do one more trip, is, of course, what are we going to do in this fundamental problem? Here in this hall, it is very often spoken of, I would like to call it believing, such as banning insurance, to forbid in actuality the symptoms of the instability we live in, and a lot of classes have gone up in this nonsense. I think it would be very useful for the council to have a careful discussion on this fine report. It's right next to the highest. Prime Minister that I was a minister of the government, which was the basis of the report, and no legal matter that it depended on major compromises between classes. Of course, when we now see the crown's instability again, it is important that we take a careful discussion of this matter at the Assembly Hall. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u46	Mr. President. We find time for this discussion, which I agree with. A senator should be more on the depth than we can get here in just a few minutes. I'd like to say, though, I think there's a lot of stuff in this arrangement that we have now, i.e. The Icelandic crown we can do better. One factor that has been pointed out is to make up the cost of the global banking system. We have requested that the committee to complete the work of White Books will engage in identifying the cost, since it appears to be higher in this country than in other parts of the country around us. It is not to the currency merely to blame, so to speak. We must also look to what the committee suggests that financial stability will become more a part of the management of money. I think that's exactly the point. However, the question is, Should financial stability aims be overemphasis of inflation aims? There is something we need to discuss at the council as well. I have proclaimed that later this winter, after a year, there will be a bill for a change in the law on the Sentencing Bank. There are many other decisions that will depend on the money policy that will not be legalized. Rather, it is merely about molding the money policy, which I believe we should take time to discuss. [[The president calls.]] So I suggest that we do what we need. The senator's request is made clear so that we can take such a talk over a longer period of time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u47	Mr. President. It's going to be a lot of talk about fish when we're about to start talking about the fishing costs. But as a council member, I'm going to discuss only agriculture and just one of his churches involved in innovation, i.e. about food. In the latest edition, an article on the house of microspheres was published. It has something to do with a tone that we do not know because there is a very positive review, this article on Matize's stage manager. These are raw materials for innovation directly from the immediate environment, mainly meat. It is in itself that new creations in this field will be made powerful. There is also another and special aspect of this matter of eating, for a microsphere could open up to the so - called food market of the world's major and medium - sized towns. That storegum, i.e. Some markets, markets, or depositories can replace commercially with prepacked products in supermarkets, resulting in increased packaging pollution as well as high levels of food being disposed of. This is known across Europe's continents, and it is rather environmental because of close contact with buyers and a much less waste. They're selling there on a scale. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister of whether he agrees with me in part, that the ground should be unwinded by a small compression in slaughtering and processing, the sales of agricultural products, etc. and contribute to changing law and regulations.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u48	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry is helpful, kind, and upbuilding at the same time. It is true that there may be considerable possibilities there, and this aspect of the matter has actually been discussed in a working group on the review of agricultural contracts, followed by the assessment of KPMG at sheep stops, a report that has raised several discussions. It is clear that there are opportunities. However, I would like to mention that one of the factors listed by the staff is studying ways to enhance the flexibility of the food law to provide support for the work of smaller units, services, and workshops, as they call them. There was a new Regulation set up in 2016 that was to help because this discussion was then under way. However, following the Regulation that went into effect in October 2016, no indications or comments on any changes in regulations have been made. That may seem to be the case. It takes something to get it going better. I hope there's a discussion that's beginning to arise further up on this subject. It is clear that there are additional projects in this slaughtering area. There's a lot of opportunities out there. I know of a farmer's desire to make use of it. We may need to change some aspects of the privacy of these parties in the administration section to make a larger position in this field. I may find myself in my second answer to what possibilities there may be. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u49	Mr. President. We see this partly happening on the market with vegetables where nothing is needed, such as slaughtering anything. And we see this on the market with all kinds of herbs that humans are picking out in the wild in jams and ointments and everything. We also see this in this remarkable campaign of tourism, food at home in the district, where farmers in a certain area have put forth great effort to become familiar with their own raw materials. It is important to have a streamlined food store in the country because of this waste process and the way shops are always moving farther and farther away from people. There is no need to relax medical requirements when it comes to microspheres. Then we can appreciate that innovation is key, especially for sheep farmers who may not be able to survive only some of them. Now it's just starting to turn things around and I encourage Ministers to be the leader of this thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u50	A respectable president. I'm going to take less of it. For example, a senator who puts the lead money at the head of a Turbist far north, which seems to have succeeded. At the Ministry Department, there are several factors that may directly and indirectly relate to this, e.g. the point about how the government will do the shopping. There, the line is given for the group of workers working to reduce carbon dioxide levels, although only the emphasis is on increasing the potential of Icelandic and domestic production beyond that of others, getting into government and elsewhere's cafeteria. We are also discussing the possibility of uniting a fund heard by the Ministry in order to improve the support of innovation, both in agriculture and on the seaside. However, we do have a position in this environment that the agriculture needs to be greatly increased beyond the seabed in this area. There's a lot of goods out there. We'll work on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u51	A respectable president. I recommend a synopsis proposal for an independent professional local selection for a new national hospital. With me are all members of the Central Party Parliament, i.e. Bergþór Ólason, Birgir son of Þórarinsson, Gunnar the son of Sveinsson, Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunnlaugsson, Sigurður Jónsson, and Þorsteinn the son of Sæmundsson. The proposal was previously submitted to the 148th legislature and suggested that a health minister be assigned to perform an independent professional localisation for a new national hospital. The secretary consults foreign and domestic organisations who will be appointed to review possible locations, including with regard to financial, quality, transport, traffic and safety. The results of this analysis will be published in an accessible way. Ministers report the results to the General Report no later than March 2019. During 2001●2008, Icelandic and foreign experts wrote a number of opinions, and most of them concluded that a new national hospital should be built from scratch in a new location. Building on the Land Hospital at the Ring Road is based on the main organization in 2001◯2024, but all of the organization's foundations are smiling, not one of the means of transport and planning that will be expected to be in force for the present time. Therefore, the current selection seems to be based on archaic criteria. In recent years, some changes have been made in order to improve the benefits of reevaluating plans for the hospital's location. It is good to remember, however, that the right to repair the facility now on Ring Road is needed and will not allow this proposal to delay it in any way. The independent and professional local analysis will therefore not prevent the necessary primary design procedures to be carried out, regardless of location, but may at the same time be more effective in presenting the benefits and defects of the programmes employed from and at the same time. Now is the time to discuss whether an alternative might be better than a Ring Road under the present circumstances. This work will be essential to the construction of the new national hospital. Since the first decision, organization and planning have often changed. The only thing that has not changed is the location, but it must be natural to evaluate that factor as soon as the knowledge becomes available to evaluate it. To give some examples of possible location, the country of Zelda has been in the discussion. It is considered to be highly suitable for the environment, transport, development opportunities, etc. There have been committees around the age of Old age with various advantages. Many have reasoned that it is best to build up around the City Hospital, where areas have been set aside for several other challenges in recent years, although not excluded. The Valley is also sometimes mentioned, but it might be suitable for transportation, where it is located in the edge of the capital area, but still in the middle, linking it in all directions, in connection with road routes to and from Reykjavík and near nature. More locations have been named, such as VCs and may still be interested in cooperation by local authorities in Garville. The report of a better hospital in June 2015 said that the cost of building and operating a new national hospital differs according to location. The organization compared three places. First, the construction of old buildings on the Ring Road, the construction of the Fos Soil Hospital, and the construction of a new hospital from scratch to another place, which would be a new place closer to the home of the capital area and the main traffic. KPMG crossed the calculations, examined the criteria and confirmed the calculation according to the criteria given. The comparison showed that it was more practical to build in Fos Cove than to build a new national hospital. Such factors, such as ambulances and helicopters, are also turned toward a good local analysis. It follows that the cost is lower as far as the local hospital is cut short. In this regard, the development, the development, and the long - term development need to be considered. You need to see how the platforms affect the building and how you travel from place to place. The primary objective of this recommendation is to perform an independent professional local analysis. A professional statistical analysis is needed to see where it would be most practical and best to build. This requires independent professionals, such as planning professionals, hospital transporters, helicopter pilots, engineers, business experts, traffic experts, and health professionals. People would be assigned to evaluate possible sites based on economic, quality, transport, traffic and safety. The results, once again, need to be made available. I hope that the proposal can produce a wide - scale convergence in the council as well as in the community. It is necessary to make wise decisions based on new information and consistent with the developments that have taken place, e.g. in traffic and planning. It also provides additional safety and quality, and eventually clears a vision of a better hospital in the best place. I would like the proposal to go to the welfare committee after a discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u52	A respectable president. To a large extent, this case explains itself and has reason to reason. An executive reviewed it all the time. However, I would like to say a few words to emphasize the importance of going to this diagnosis and work. Not so many months ago, we went through this discussion. At that time, the General could not agree to make the journey there. Since then, however, it has been found that many of the cautions raised are well - founded. Patients and caregivers, staff, are experiencing noise and noise, of course, from the Þinghols project, at the hospital on Ring Road. Standing soaring recorded the noise during the construction of the Ringtrack. It was in the media where people could listen to this noise. This is how it's going to go on. This is how it's gonna be for the next few years. We're going to see what's going on for years on this box. I'm not going to extend the discussion by reviewing what to do with the old houses that are there. Now is the chance to stop and think about it again, to have an independent opinion of how this is best done by staff, patients, and all the arguments specific in the Senate resolution form presented here. It's about time we acknowledged that we've got a bit of a float on this matter. There is really no evidence to recommend, if ever they existed, that this project will continue where it is today. Let's give us another priority, the interests of patients, the staff and the future of the nation regarding the national hospital. Let us take a look at this seriously, for there is still an opportunity to do so. Of course, all of us know that this takes time, but it does not take longer to think things over.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u53	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to add anything else, but I completely agree with the case. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir was moving, and I'm with a importer. My experience with this story from when I came here, and watched the news there before, is that it somehow continued without a clear course for quite many years. Then it is only time for a decision to be made, and then, as it turns out, it is made. During the council much has been testified to a resolution that was likely approved by 2015 that the then government under the seat of the President of the son of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunoug had decided that there should be a new national hospital. This is not true, since the wording could have been more pronounced in this article. It was said of building a home on the property. The thought behind that was to repair the existing houses and not to take up new projects. It's been used here in a series of times to overpower the fact that it was decided in the time of the government that sat here in 2013-2016. As it happened, I was in here as a deputy and was a co-sponsor of this proposal. In my head, finding a new national hospital has always been a rather simple matter. This suggests an independent, professional arrival elsewhere and, as shown in the Sermon on the Mount. paritaprevir Now, Gunnar Bragi, the son of Sveinsson, we are going to experience noise and discomfort, both for patients and for staff, in the future, while this project is being carried out. It's not healthy for the patients, it's quite clear. If it had been carried out elsewhere, this place would have had to complete its time as a hospital while a new hospital was being built in another place. It wouldn't have been necessary to take as long as it's been hammered. That's why I find it very strange that it was chosen. It is said that there was a lot of work and everything very professional around it, but I interpret it so that it's just been mutilated, and somehow it was pushed ahead of itself without that job being what it was said. Today, it is said that this building site is being built in turmoil and that even though the hospital's emergency hotel has been delayed as it is, it cannot be stopped. This facility can be used in ways other than what it is thinking for now if the wise decision would be made to move the hospital to a different location. The houses do not necessarily have hospital stays. There are other ways to use them. I believe that this matter will be taken into consideration, that it will receive the treatment it needs, will pass through here, and that there will be a way to find a new national hospital. I'm not gonna have any more words on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u54	Mr. President. It is not that this matter is unforeseeable in the halls yet to travel. We covered it extensively during the past council, and it has also been discussed in a public field. I have a very memorable meeting, which was held in the leading of the last election, likely in October 2017, as an organization of better hospitals in a better place, held in the Norwegian house and offered to the candidates of all classes. At that meeting, prominent professionals in the construction field, medical science, and health sciences were respected. It covered the course of this case very closely, and the reports that are said to provide the basis for it's local choice. At the same time, it was reviewed that all the main pioneers at the Ring Road were smiling. It says, Mr. President, not a stone on a rock. The standard of the Ring Course naturally involves choosing a hospital far from the geographic center of the capital area and down the airport. Most odd of all, the idea of linking this new building with existing houses so badly affected by moisture and mold is known to have caused serious ill health and disease to workers. So peculiar as the career of the one who has, as often as this case has been mentioned and considered, there have always been those responsible for the case who proved completely unable or unwilling to discuss the matter on such grounds. People are being thrown in the face that as well as so many health ministers have come to this and some form of unauthorized information that has absolutely nothing to do with it and that humans have stuck to what they want to do. I'm going to allow myself to expect it, Mr. President, or to express the hope that one day people will cross that career and realize that there are hell to avoid. This is a decision of great interest, the national interests of the Icelanders, the financial benefits of a lot of money, and so on. How odd that the result was to stick to the Ring Way! You cannot help but hope that what may come out of it, though later, is that you learn from the mistakes that obviously marked this career for a long time. Hv. paritaprevir Árnadóttir Kolbönnadóttir did so well and thoroughly over the matter in her personal history that there is, of course, not much to add. But I agree with what. The last speaker, hoping that this case will have a good and material discussion here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u55	President. I'm here recommending a bill for excommunication of a dollar across a dollar's trinket. This bill was previously submitted to the last assembly, or 148th legislature, and is now reassigned by certain changes. The bill contains the sum of a special supply, cr. 2 mg. Count 9. Law on social assistance, 22nd degree. Act on social security. Transferring a maximum financial value into a certain amount of income insurance provision contributes to a lower reduction in the disability and rehabilitation of donors with special replacements at 2 mg. Count 9. a law on social assistance is reduced by 100% because of all the earnings that pensioners may receive. Such a decrease in daily speech has been mentioned as a dollar to a dollar's decrease. Also low in pensions to the same extent, the total income of a pensioner remains unchanged despite the income from elsewhere. Then all other taxable revenues will cut the remuneration, including improvements in social, social, and foreign benefits. Such impairments can have a very negative impact on the vitality of micro- and rehabilitation personnel. It may be that in the first performance of this bill, it was assumed that a set of specific supplements found in 2 mg. Count 9. Law on social assistance would fail. Now, however, changes in social assistance laws cannot be expected; it will not be necessary to cancel the article when the amount of money is increased in the way expected in Article 1. The bill. When this change was made to agree with the National Institute of Environment. A centenarian is highly inhibited and leads to the failure of many micro-energy and rehabilitation pensioners to provide no or little benefit from employment participation. The present arrangement minimizes the efforts of disabled people. As the adjustment produces an incentive for working with those who have the right to do that right now. Then there must be the section of the microenergy pensioner who is able to collect pensions but who are not benefiting from their rights for a dollar in return to a dollar. Thus, this change can provide them with a group of important compensations and added confidence in the pension system. This will cut the interest rates and compensations of bank accounts and other capital gains for the extension, a dollar to a dollar. The same applies to other incomes, to produce mother and father's pay, mortality rates and evaluation of property savings. Thus, microenergy and rehabilitation pensioners with low income income cannot be allowed to slightly improve their status by earnings elsewhere. It is important to remember that all revenues are calculated from the income of the tax. Old - age pensioners were previously subjected to a degree of reduced remuneration for the sake of other incomes. She was removed by a change in law No. 116/2016, where there were a number of simplified changes in the pension system. To do the same for micro-energy pensioners is a justice matter. At the 146th legislator's office, an inquiry was made to the Department of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. It asked about the costs that could come with the taking of a certain amount of money for further advance, and it would depend on income insurance, according to the 22nd paragraph. legal on social security so that the remuneration would have to be cut off in return for other eligible pensioners. According to the minister's response, the cost of such an operation would be about 11.4 billion per the current amount. However, there is only a cost to be considered clean when the change is made. There is no assessment of income that would result from the operation, e.g. with increased employment support, increased production, and increased tax revenue. Clearly, the cost of the operation would be somewhat lower, except for the savings that could result from such an operation when we remember the stress of people's lives and therefore help them regain good health. Depending on the amount of age - related disability supplementation provided and whether or not they will live alone. The amount of money leaves at 5,186. every month for those who live with others and have the highest age-related bioenergy equivalent for 61,772 k. During a month of isolated age-related disability supplementation. In order to ensure that no micro-energy and rehabilitation personnel are affected by changes under the bill, it is necessary that the increase in income insurance is as high as the highest possible amount of extradelaying money, which is 61,772k. per month. If this increase is assumed to make it necessary for any special extension to be paid when income insurance is fully paid, most microenergy and rehabilitation professionals will stop paying special remuneration for forwards. Age - related bioenergy exchange reduces the production rate to a dollar, causing it to fail to reach its original purpose, i.e. meeting the individuals who receive a young disability diet and who fail to collect rights in a pension fund. This adjustment would result in the fulfillment of age - related microengineering. President. A centenarian against a dollar's impairment keeps disability and rehabilitatement in poverty. They are the people in the community who are often at an economic rate. For us to say that in force there is a decrease, which directly prevents pensioners from increasing their income, it is unfair and unfair. A cent against a dollar's decrease has been reported by Icelandic politicians. Giving this bill good and shooting treatment at the council committee and then votes in the chamber can fulfill the promise that many have already made to pensioners, i.e. building floors under a pensioner, not a roof they're trapped under. I hope this time, it's our turn to make the change through. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u56	Mr. President. In Iceland, there is an unprecedented level of kindness. We're a very rich society. We are in a position to do good to the public because we are a rich society, the Icelandic nation is rich. But at the same time as the situation is almost unprecedented, governments choose to use desperate rules that no other group in the community need to feel the same way. This injustice has been called a dollar to the decrease of a dollar, meaning that each dollar as a currency earns a dollar is reduced in return from a special supply. Thus, we have created such a system that at the same time as we spend considerable government resources increasing the effectiveness of the desperate who have the means to earn money, spend money for training, for efficiency, for recruitment, for partial work, or for other purposes, there will not be any financial benefit to those who otherwise need to draw back their lives in biofuels. It should now be noted that for several reasons, an individual may become an invalid, e.g. caused by disability, accidental injury, disease. Thus, their ability to work may be very variable, although in all cases it is impaired in some way, or in most cases at least This group is also in all ages, some being young, others older, some single - parent groups, other family members. Microenergy pensions are as if everyone knows a wretched amount of money, so it should be a special benefit to anyone who has any part of his ability to work, despite his disability. This should be a special benefit, for, as previously stated, governments have undergone a campaign to create jobs for this group, to activate their skills, to enhance their function, to promote social activity, and thus to increase the ability and quality of life, because all know what isolation can be a great impairment of quality of life. At least the government seems to In this respect, the importance of activity is in individual quality of life. Even so, the Icelandic government directly discourages that particular group by its rules for a dollar against a dollar's impairment. And what message does it give to a cripple? Don't win. Don't make extra money to get a chance for a better life. Don't be the more active member of society that could possibly increase your satisfaction in life, because we've decided that every cent you earn in that way, we're going to take it back. When other people have the potential for increased resources with more work and higher pay, the microman is placed on 100% taxes in the case of the disability. Each dollar shall be taken from that one group, and even those politicians who cry out for tax appeals and how bad tax returns in general do not say a word. They are away during the discussion. But this is not enough, for it also comes from growth and subsidies in the heart of bank accounts or financial income. This also applies to other incomes, to form mother and father's salary, death rates and evaluation of property savings. In effect, this is a precautionary view that a certain group of people of the land cannot increase their provisional resources. The shameless act must cease. At a council meeting, we can do this by paying the way of the matter recommended today. We can do this by paying the way of this needs bill. All of us know that in the end, not just those who have to endure injustice but the whole community will heal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u57	Mr. President. I'm up here to celebrate because this bill has come out again. I'm even happier that it's one of my priorities. Thank you for the history and 1st transporter, boy. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, for perseverance. Most of us agree that a dollar to a dollar is bad. It is a bad fact, no matter how we view it, which makes it possible that many micro- and-rehabilitation pensioners have no or no small benefit from sharing in society. Indeed, it is to participate in society when you have the opportunity to work. It can be said that the present system minimizes the work of those who can and want to do their part, since they are few. I hope the adjustment is going to work out this time. I think it's an awful lot that Iceland's Organization needs a court case in an effort to overcome normal correction.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u58	A respectable president. We'll discuss a cent in return to the loss of a cent. I support the bill with my mind, and I'm one of its carriers. We're talking about a subject that's one of the greatest injustices you've ever seen in Icelandic law, an injustice so incredible that you feel it, when you go to the core of this, that it's just playing sick and badly injured people, desperate to groups. Let's just go for a minute, when was this law set up, a dollar a dollar apiece? [[Take it up: Insanity.]] - Bad luck. When? Yes, it was December 21, 2009. Then it became a law. This was in the days of a so - called left government. [[Foreground on: Well-traveled management.]] The well-being of the well-being. And voters said 19 yes and 14 no. I'm sorry, I have to say, there are still members of the council who agreed to do this. I know, and I don't believe anything but that those people who put these laws on will see to it that they will be removed. These include Ásmundur Einar Daðason, the present welfare minister. And the general president. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. Those 14 said no, did not say no to a cent in favor of a coin; it was not mentioned on a special name that everyone could find online. I've been through these special opinions, and I couldn't find a single objection - one of those who said no - against a dollar. I was brought up to see that, in a discussion about the tax issues I meant to the highest. Secretary of finance, who would have set this up, who would have been with and who would have been opposed. I don't see that at the moment, those who were opposed realized what was creating. If we went to the bill submitted in 2009, it was 12. The article on Article 9 of the article "The Bible - God's Word and Man's! " The law said, by permission of the President: If it is found that a pensioner cannot support himself without it, it is considered acceptable to pay a pension due to costs that cannot be paid or added in some other way. As to whether a pensioner can support himself without replacement, he should take into account property and income. If it is found that a pensioner cannot support himself without a pension, it is permitted to pay special pensions. As to whether a pensioner can support himself without any special replacement, a total of less than 180,000 dollars should be considered. per month. As to whether non-employable pensioners can support themselves without any special replacement, a total of less than 153,500 will be considered. per month. In terms of this requirement, all taxable income, including social security and benefits, as well as foreign income that are not listed here, are considered to be taxable. The State Department of Insurance evaluates the need according to this requirement. The secretary is permitted to set up a regulation on the further implementation of this requirement, including the following steps: ..of income and possessions Pay attention to that, income and property boundaries. Those who were to receive it were not to have possessions. If any of these individuals at that time were in desperate supply, they would have some possessions, and they would be reduced. And they can't, I repeat, which must be one of the most amazing things in Icelandic history, has property in a bank, and can't get benefits from what they had in a bank. What was even more strange in this was the age - related disability that was to compensate for if disability were young - no, not, it was impaired. What a surprise it must be if we begin to examine closely the limits set there! What are we talking about today? What makes a dollar a dollar a dollar a year? Yes, those who receive the highest special compensation that will be cut out of there will hold more than 60 Thous. K. Older citizens received this correction in 2017. If we look forward to today, what has been taken of those who received this special exchange? Let us see that those who receive this highest exchange are those who are in the worst position, those who are in a wheelchair who can hardly support themselves. Then we are talking about that from January 1, 2017 to today, these people have been separated from 1,360 you. K. minimum. We are under obligation to see that this is paid over and over again. Because all corrections on pay have been paid over and over again. But older civilians and poorer people? No. And what is the argument? What is the argument of the minister of finance for every consideration of this issue? There are limited incomes, there are no income. What's the most amazing thing about this is that no matter what it is that I haven't heard anyone say, "We're not going to pump money into Vellahole because there's limited income. " We are not going to over half the cost of the Þingalval Summit because we have limited income. I'm just saying, Guð help us, no one's going to talk about limited income when the hospital is getting ahead of schedule. I'm just saying, Guð help us when the hospital starts rising to the Ring Road, which is going to cost twice as much as it normally is, and then it's twice as fast. No one will say, "There are limited incomes. " No. Only in the case of injustice with microgamy. It's got to be said, if we're looking at what this is, that the government also approved a law to help people who are at high cost on drugs. Car strength because of disability, oxygen masks, all kinds of help - people get the strength to buy it. Yet, to this day these are strong taxes. What does that mean? Yes, if you get 15 of you. K. concentrations for medicinal products are approximately 15 ys. K. took a crown from you against a crown. But then it's forgotten that the tax is taken from this strength. So it's not 100% tax, it's a good idea. I say for my part, it's because people are being fooled, it's sick people, and it's just making them look like an idiot in the government of the past few years who've let it go. I say for my part: I'm just hoping that those who brought this on, and those who have already kept it and are still here at the council, will finally come to shame and see for all of it that this dollar is gone. That doesn't mean saying to disability: You have to wait to talk to a group about the review of social security if this is going to work out. It is quite certain that the results of that group never arrive until, first of all, 2020. It is therefore necessary at this time of the year that taxes will cease, according to the promise, and all the classes, will cease to be made. Also, making sure that a dollar or a penny is reduced is removed. This must be a spontaneous human right. How will we justify this? If anyone were to say that there was justice in this, I'd take as an example that I'd get a car grant at the council. I'm getting a car scholarship, but he's not worth a dollar in return. No matter what money I make, I don't get it anywhere else. But a cripple? It is not enough to raise a dollar in return but also to pay taxes. It's amazing that such a law can be created. I am convinced that the laws in force now do not measure up to human rights. Let's leave it. But then it's the constitution. Where in Iceland's Constitution do you think it's allowed to put a law like that to deceive badly ill people and injured them? We've known about this since 2009, for ten years. And we've been through this. All this time. Nothing's been done in this, always some excuses. Even excuses for two years because the Quantum Community decided not to swallow a work record. They could only continue to punish all microbes, just to keep on cutting back a penny because they refused to go to work evaluations. We should watch the picture I, Daniel Blake, which showed exactly how assessment can go completely out of every map. Therefore, we should be careful about this and concentrate on setting a job meal, but we also see that there is no point in this. There's nothing like a sign between here, nothing. There is another factor in this: It is also difficult to understand and talk about. I believe that in some cases, as has been shown here, this dollar against a dollar is so presented, both in age - related disability and in all kinds of strength, that those who are really ill - really sick people, who receive this special supplement - cannot protect themselves. They don't realize that. These are often people who do not understand their income growing, who have not changed, but they still have a year of deterioration. Because a dollar across the dollar goes in. It doesn't show up until a year later. She is nothing from month to month. Except when they distribute the money for a year, a year later. We need to realize that this is unacceptable. You can't say to these people: You just want to know better, just to create a budget and put it in order to make it work. That's totally unfair because there's no way these people can figure this out or they'll figure it out. They sincerely believe that they are being given the strength to help them. How on earth is it to believe that this strength is toxic? In fact, it reduces their income, not just 100%, but more than 100%. I say for my part: It must be time for us here at council, lawgivers, to treat the sick, to bring down the people with respect, the simple respect, to treat them like human beings, not like the third, fourth, or fifth-rate citizens who can be trampled on and then to make all the promises when elections are elected, to dust them, and to say, "Yes, a dollar a dollar a year, a dollar a year, a year, a year, a year. All units praised this before the last election. All of them. But who have survived? Government? No. That is why I say, " Now is the time to keep your promises. '
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u59	V.E.G. President. I'm coming up here to take an answer to what's happened. Senator, but I want to start by thanking you. paritaprevir As shown in the talk at the station at the station, a representative of Halldóra Mogensen before. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Eagle Daughter, to endure and persevere in this stress. This blessed system is so I can't figure it out. I've often sat over a cup of coffee. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Ingi Kristinsson, who are being instructed about this jungle of disability. The Senator has often mentioned that we just have to push it off the table and start over, jump the cards, start over again. It may be too simple to be true. But sometimes it's just that simplicity is the best. The Senator mentioned earlier in his talk that this became the law of 2009. At that time, the situation in society was that it was a time of crisis after the collapse of the economy. I'm a little curious to know, because it's obvious that the senator has studied this matter very carefully, how it came about. Why was this put on, the amount of dollars in return? And what might be the evidence that this is not taken away? It's an amazing system, it's a fact that it's clearly working, not a source of pressure. There's a lot of micro-germs that can win something. What's the explanation that this was put on, anyway. Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u60	A respectable president. I appreciate this inquiry. During this time, the new charcoal broke down. I always want to believe the good stuff. I'd like to believe that this special exchange there was put in with good intentions. She was to help those who had least and had the least means to support themselves. In this case, it was the worst-cased guys who got it and getting most of it. But what made it so that in turn, they put everything, between heaven and earth, that it does not matter. There are no exceptions. All income and possessions. It tells itself that it must be mathematical in every way wrong to place all possessions and all in such cases. Moreover, we should not forget that in those days, shortly thereafter, there was a lack of disability. After the collapse, poorer and older citizens suffered massive losses. Regarding the reasoning that followed them, they at the time stated that they would be very sorry, and it followed a promise that, as soon as it was better, the first issue of the government then ruling would be to correct the ideals of older citizens and disability. But they did not keep any of that. They corrected their own salary and left older citizens and disability behind. And this is a correction that is yet to be done and is required.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u61	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answer that opens up a little bit about how this came about. At the time, I did not pay so much attention to this matter, but this is the explanation. That this was put on with good intentions, but the contrary came to the point where it all became a failure that could be found. I believe that some of these things must have been mistakes or errors. But if it has stood somewhere in the small print or has said that it should be canceled when it was better, then it must be time for it now. I'm in this case, and I think it's a great deal of justice. I can't imagine having anything to do with government funds. It's just that anything that makes a difference to work, as I said earlier, is an improvement. As shown in the talk "Wicked. " paritaprevir Árnadóttir Kolbröndóttir is a number of cripples who can work at something. Others cannot. However, some cripples can win something. If so, how painful it is that none other than that they are taken away! It must be very simple, and it's amazing that it's not fixed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u62	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for those answers. I agree. This is not a large amount. This is a fair matter. And there's something else that's forgotten about all this. I was talking about 60 yous. K. impairments, due to the specific supplementation, in the worst of the population. It is forgotten in the context that if a person has some income elsewhere, just some employment income, it is taken. I saw an example of a person who got 300 Yous. K. Work for a month's summer work he could do, an invalid, with great joy. Got a couple of little revenues. paid their taxes. And he had good faith that he could now keep the rest because he owed a little money and thought, " Fine, I'll work for it and pay the debt, and I'm on good business. Every cent taken. Not only the tax money, but the whole 300 thousand of it was taken off, just a year later. Can you imagine what this will do to someone who is sick and who is trying to save himself? He's totally beat down. We can only relate this to us at council, on a good salary. If we had been treated this way, how would we react? Or any other hired people in the country? [[Up front.]] No one can think of doing this with any other people in this country. None other than those who are sick, can be such a ridiculous failure.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u63	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen for providing this bill. I am also very grateful and proud to be a associate of it. We're talking about justice. We're talking pure fair talk. We are speaking of a community that is in the community, in effect, in the hands of an oppressive government. Most factors are enough to have been born into the disabled, to have to put up with being a prisoner in his own body, although not by all available means being able to prevent the individual from being able to save himself if possible. You ask yourself, for example. ... acquiesce against a crown of impairment. Well, I'm fine. My fellow senator, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, who has had to hoist on disability until we were elected at the Allied Council of Iceland, to be invited by this group we are fighting for, especially disability. We've been in this situation, we know what it is. We didn't end up together, and we had kids, too. I raised four children. Could I give my children what neighbors could do in general? ' No, I couldn't. Does it hurt to see that you are so powerless that you cannot take a normal part in society, no matter how much you want? Yeah, it hurts. The number of micropunchers is increasing. The word is "enlargement. " Why in the world is there so much growth in micropigage? How can we reduce the number of microorganisms? ask those in charge. I wanted to try everything but to turn them over to the means of living, as I have said before, but small resources seem to be available. It is somehow like this social group, including the underpayers and the percentages of the older citizens who are in a very poor standing, should be kept by the national flotation. To think, if we met this group, these groups, stop cutting them down, oppressing them, and preventing them possibly saving themselves from the man - made poverty trap that is right here on the government's command, is it not a bit surprising to imagine that they would be facing the national anchor? No one is wondering how babies feel. Is it possible to think that if Mom and Dad were not worth a dollar, would they not rather try to go out and make their income if she had health? Could the individual possibly recover from the poverty trap? Is that not the question we should ask ourselves? How can we meet those who struggle in our community, fight back, and do not make ends meet? How can we meet them and show that they are part of the community we respect and are proud to live with? I haven't forgotten my last campaign yet. I haven't forgotten that less than a year ago, I don't remember a single representative of the political debate, in the debate, who didn't promise a relief, who said that a dollar against the dollar impairment was unfair and wanted to take it away. Of course we're behind it, they all said, we're going to cut off a cent. Kiss me and everything will be fine. The bill has been transferred before. It was moved last winter. Where did it go? What happened to that? Why is it back in motion? Because those who promised that they would cancel a dollar in return to try to buy our votes in the last winter did not keep their promises. The regular days of this committee, never in general discussion at the council. It is not enough that virtually everything is done to prevent the possibility of self - saving, but it also serves as an invalid, a single parent, an invalid on minimal progress, a decreased dollar, and a child who falls into 18 years of age. What happens then? It's impaired. It loses a home environment. All creations are lost. It's impaired, rent damage, all of it. They bring an 18 - year - old person into the home even though nothing happened except at midnight the son or daughter crossed the threshold of becoming 18 years old or old - but the parent's circumstances have not changed. The parent is the same invalid as it was before midnight when the child was 17. But now, my dear invalid will be even more impaired despite even more needs to receive more money in order to be able to help his child study. What, then, is to be done? They try to give their child something else. Doesn't he have any cousins or uncles? Is there something else you can do to transport the home? What can we do to try to save ourselves? It's not the State's authority to help us do that, is it? No, it's not. I can't wait to hear the end of this bill. I couldn't be more excited, more dignified President, after seeing the wealth, if it's more to our fine fellow members now than usual. After the collapse, most of the bad ones, if any, in the community were as cut out of all detriment and delinquency as older civilians. That's got a pretty good catch. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson pointed out. This is the social group that has received no retrospective correction. It's just fine. But we're not all right with the people in Floki, and certainly not with our importers on this good bill already. paritaprevir Halldóra, Mogensen. All it takes is a combined effort. " Why is a person a 75% permanent invalid?'you may wonder. Could he possibly work sometime, maybe two days a week, maybe half a day some day a week? Could he possibly get some money? Could he possibly get off his depression? Could he possibly raise himself from the human poverty trap by doing so? Yes, he could. But we, or rather the government, and the high Council, prevent them from doing so. Absolutely. You ask yourself: " If this person was given the opportunity to go to work, would he feel better? Much of the disability has to do with spiritual problems, depression, and feelings of distress. If we take a holistic picture, how will it affect a person - we are social creatures - allowed to go out into society, be able to be around others, work, feel a little pride? The person can think: I can do this, I can do this, I can do this, and I'll pay a tax from that in the state fund, our common fund. It is forgotten to take into account the cost of disability. We're a rundown. Hv. Guðmundur Igngi Kristinsson well knows how it shows up on the Excel document, an unwanted number, and the micro-energy burden we are in the excel. But we're man-made. There are many things you can do if you want to strengthen, strengthen, and activate the human race. One large factor on this road is that to test at least one cent in the direction of the patient, it is accurate that a dollar will be cut off and at the same time strengthen the person, the micromath in this case. To see if he can win, to see if he has a cup. It's us. Councilmen and officials, who can enable them to do this. I've said, let's join each other wherever we stand when we face true reasonableness and justice. As we look at the situation in general, we can clearly see that the cost of the matter is no one - only the advantage of repealing a penny to a dollar. Once again, w. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen and all the other fine senators who contribute to this matter, optimistic and smiling: I don't believe it until we accept that all the promises made to our people in our last campaign for disability and a dollar against cards were nothing but empty talk. We sail forward with a smile and optimistic outlook.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u64	Madam President. Still there are matters that the nation has to do with death, the ideal disability. Here we go. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen brings forward the change to the social security legislation designed to bring in some of the long-term timely benefits of disability. Of course, that change is a complete thought, and it was my pleasure to be a cohesor on the bill. A centenarian is a term that goes repeatedly as a red thread in the discussion of the ideal microorganism. It is an unbelievable and disastrous phenomenon that inhibits man - made conditions and acts as discouraging and debilitating, affecting the life and health of our citizens. So let's act quickly, not just by speaking here, but by doing it. There's talk of fear and excitement and a little bit of weight about this cost a lot. Let us remember that this phenomenon came about with a measure of reconciliation and understanding under conditions when the Icelandic nation was in great distress. But that seems almost impossible to change. Apparently, one of the most prosperous times the Icelandic community has gone through is not enough to bring about the right advantage of this group. Let us consider, though, not only the words we say but also the actions of others. This subject has long been in the discussion and has not been discussing it for the first time today. Now, there will be a team of work at work, hopefully to land and decide, so that people can make peace. But before long, the discussion is about valuation that our subjects are paying any attention. I think that valuation, if we do it with individual interests in mind, may be a good idea, but the steps seem to scare. That's not unusual. Of course, we should cultivate peace and trust in each other, and it is the government, the workforce, and the desperate ones themselves. There's probably a country about this. Professionals, experts, have noted that there may be a price against the loss of the dollar as a violation of human rights. According to the UN International Convention on Economic, Social, and cultural rights that Iceland is committed to a state to take special care of vulnerable groups and to ensure that everyone can live a decent life. In each Member State, the decision-or-treating form allows the citizens to sue the alleged agreements to work on the basis of the contract would be incompatible after attempting all domestic legal measures. However, an alleged offense to the Committee cannot be filed by Member States. You see, Iceland hasn't done that, although the United Nations is going to have it figured out. Finland is the only Norwegian state that has signed the Annex. The other states have neither signed him nor validated the book. 45 of the 139 member states of the United Nations have signed and validated the United Nations. Madam President. As soon as it is encouraged to work on reforms, change in social security laws like this bill and unjust impairment, we in Iceland, one of the richest peoples in the world, should be in charge of these human rights matters and validate the United Nations's provision for economic, social, and cultural rights. Madam President. Let's start with our tuna leg at home, in our own park, and correct the decrease as a dollar in the world has caused the citizens.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u65	Madam President. I recommend a bill to correct the change of road law, No. 80/2007. The bill was previously submitted to the last Council of 148th, but it was not granted, and now it appears in the form. I have four other senators with me on the case. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson, Birgir Þórarinsson, Páll Magnússon, and Vilhjálmur Árnason, all members of the Southern District. In 1st. the bill is expected to change 2 mg. Section 8. road law, to add a new letter, e-joints, as follows: The national transport framework is part of the basis of the transport process as defined in the specific transport programme. A national transport channel is considered to be a means by which a ferry replaces a road-to-line network and connects the regions of the land that are surrounded by the sea's infrastructure of transport on the continent. Two. the bill is expected to change 1 mg. Twenty-two. A mould, which is said to be: The transport programme shall set up budgets for the costs of transport as national transport services. 2 mg. Section 8. to transport people and automobiles. It is also permitted to set the budget for the expenses of transport costs. In the 3rd. it is assumed that the law will already be obtained. Madam President. The relative's not used to the vow. This subject has been discussed in the Western Islands for years. Last fall, I made it a promise to some people in the island that if I got to the place where I am now, it would be one of my first jobs to present a bill that would have the information available, i.e. that the bus route to Eyja would be defined as a highway. For years transportation has been under way to the Western Islands. Western islands have a unique position in transport and are the assessment of exporters that it is the role of the government to ensure good and easy transport at a reasonable level the same as the public is the driving of a common road system, port and flight selection. The transport problems facing the Western Islands and other settlements must be solved. At present, the four islands around the year are located, Home Island in the Western Islands, Gímey on the Island of Eyjafjörður, Flatey on the Bountiður, and Hisney on the Eyanna. All of their islands go hiking, but the lack of service clearances in these transporters, such as the frequency of travel, how the ships used in the shipping are prepared, is often the only amount of transportation that residents on the islands offer to travel to the continent. The objective of the bill is that certain processes fall under the definition of road shape because of their special status. It is suggested that national transport routes be added to the definition of highway law. Under that new definition, there is a process of trajectory that connects islands to the basic roads of the country. Madam President. In the case of 4904/2007, the Allegorate's agent discussed a complaint about payment on the use of military trajectory, which sailed from Western to Pacific, as well as the rise of Iceland's Eimship Society on the budget of the ferry at the beginning of 2007. So it was. According to Herlf, a highway in the sense of road law was considered to be the case. An agent made it even. that the conclusion that transporters would not be defined as highways, not according to current road laws or earlier roads, would not be put under that term. In addition, an agent felt that neither the laws of the older road law nor the current law would be dictated that the Council had considered the State's duty to operating on squares in the same way as building and maintaining highways. An agent noted that Shepherds played an important role in transport between the Western Islands and other parts of the country and had the role to some extent similar to the role that roads would have in general in transport here. Despite that word in the opinion of an agent, he concluded that the point alone did not lead to a reputable course of road law, that the ferry would be viewed as a ◯ national road between the Western Islands and the country in the sense of a road law. Bent agent, including. that a clearer view of those related to them would be taken on the 22nd staging road project. A road proposal to handle a ferry so that the interests of the citizens who used their ministry would be maintained at any given time. It is also stated by a 2007 agent that he has communicated with the Ministry at the time. It states that the Ministry's position agrees with an agent's view of the need for review of the proposed road law and that this would be guided by the next revision of road law. However, because of much further developments in the Ministry, there would not have been enough time for that review. That was 2007. There was no time for that review at that time. It has been 11 years. Madam President. In view of the conclusion of the WHO agent, the assessment of the shipping bill is that it is important to make necessary adjustments in road laws to make clear the intent of the legislatator that certain squares fall under the definition of highways according to road laws, although known as national transport routes, does not end up in any way. Madam President. In 2017, a thorough service analysis was performed for the Western Islands and the Department of Transport and Transport at the University of Akureyri Research Centre. It shows that the need for mobility is increasing and that people want to be able to cross countries and islands with minimal notice and maximum travel rate. A significant point is that people go up to the mainland to obtain service, work, and recreation. There are also a number of companies who rely on transport between the country and the island, such as transport of the fish industry and commercial fish products, etc. For them, it is important not to delay the move. Also stated is that safe squares are important for parties in tourism, which is obvious to each person. It can be assumed that all those views apply equally to the inhabitants of other islands around the land that this law, or adjustment, takes place. For a highway between the country and the island, see section 4.1 of the above analysis. suggested that the road be made for a special service party, after ferry routes are defined as a highway. The inhabitants of the country are taking special precautions to ensure that safe transport for and from homes is ensured by the government by the state's success of operating on squares on designated national transport routes in road roads. Their frequency of transportation and service levels will be defined as the government does by other means of highway transport in the country's highway system. In this way they will have the obligation to keep open all defined national routes in the country by travel frequency and by the level of service most wisely counted in each case and acceptable to inhabitants of the islands in exactly the same manner as the means by which they serve in the road system. Madam President. Finally, I suggest the bill remains in the 1st. The Council's Environment and Transport Committee is being discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u66	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator and a representative for the bill. It's an interesting bill, but I'd like to get some information on a few things. Two. is, by permission of the president: The transport programme shall set up budgets for the costs of transport, etc. Then the question is: Is this the total cost, i.e. 100% of the government's budget at the cost of national transport that is set out there? Then again, it will be in 2 Timothy 3: 1. g., by permission of President Mrs. President: It is permitted to set budgets for the expenses of transport costs that are important for tourism. Then the question arises: What arrangements are important for tourism, and which are not? Is it important to you? Or Alflf? How is this part determined? Is that under Regulation? The last paragraph in the report reads, by permission of the president: To ensure that safe transport to and from homes is guaranteed by the government by the State's success in operating on squares on designated national transport routes... Then the answer to my first question could be that the State is totally behind the operation. When I read it this way, I think maybe. could have done the bill a little better, so that the accuracy was more accurate and the point of transporting these joints would be clearer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u67	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the question. Second piece 2. The bill is completely unchanged from the current law, the stuff with the transporters that are important for tourism. It's taken the same from the 22nd floor. The law. There is no change in terms of the ability to set the budget for the payment of parts of transport costs that are important for tourism. There's nothing that's being changed. I don't know exactly what those squares are. Maybe there's something about Brefuding, maybe some squares I don't know about that the State would come from. I don't know the precedents in there. He asked about transport and cost. I assume the government will continue to establish this operation. The bill assumes and then defines the share of passengers and those who enjoy the ministry will be involved in expenses, just as we do in some places, e.g. In the Hailroads, and then the Vaults, which will soon be in use. The voyages will then be paid down from under the government, but passengers too will share. The U.S. commissioner of the Generals has encouraged these laws to be changed and to make a clearer position of the State on this seaway, that the State will be obliged to serve as a national transport service that has not been so far. It has, of course, been done but has not been obliged to do so under the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u68	Madam President. Thank you for your answers. Unchanged from older laws using these routes, yes, well, but I think the paragraph is as vague as that. I may then share the views of a carrier that I don't know what this is all about. I feel that then the question of operation remains. It means that the government is costing the operation on these transporters and national transport routes. I fully agree with the U.S. government agent that there is a greater need to clarify the activities of the roads and the processes that play together. In itself, I'm all for the basic thoughts of the bill. There's still something that I feel too vague yet that I think it's working well enough, but then I assume it's going to go to the committee and it's going to be a little tight.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u69	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Trausti Guðmundsson for the question. I am so happy that the senator will support this bill, even though he may not fully understand the entire text there. The matter goes to the Transport Committee, which reviews it, and we get reviews. This is carried out in accordance with guidelines made by an important agent of the Generals. He made comments on 2 mg. Section 8. And twenty-two. which are the articles on which you will consider and be making a change. I don't know if this is exactly what it will look like, but of course it's the committee and the reviewers. Of course, I look forward much to seeing what it will look like, whether it will be handled well or not, or whether they will find anyone to blame. I think it's very important for the people of all these islands that the state is under law to take care of transportation but not just because it is called after the time. This provides a basis for the structure and definition of the services to be done, how often, by which ship, what equipment will be used for cars, passengers, sleeping sites, frequency and where and where and where to from, etc. It is the important thing in this, that it should be defined, and the state will be obliged to take this in itself, but not as it has been, and the agent pointed out, that it is the hipsum of chappies, and only under the direction of what it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u70	Madam President. I hereby recommend a bill to correct the change in income tax laws on the deck. 18th I'll do it in the absence of the 1st transporter, okay? paritaprevir The Haraldur son of Benediktsson, but besides us two, there are why. The members of Brumes Brynjar's Níelsson, Þórunn the Egilsdóttir of Egl, Líneik Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótttir, and Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir's daughter, the carriers of the bill. The bill is simple in itself. In 1st. says that instead of the word in question 1st, the word is "joins. " Twenty-seven. Let the number 20 come in by the law. The proposed change by bill this aims to facilitate generation change in Icelandic employment. If the bill succeeds, it must be permitted to distribute taxable sales funds, where a part of the sale value is paid with a debt theory of up to 20 years, after the pay period of debt relics. According to Article 1. Twenty-seven. In such circumstances, income taxes are permitted to distribute goods for up to seven years. To form the rights of an heir other than our own, sex exchanges in businesses and businesses often prove to be difficult, and much must be avoided in the transfer of valuables. It is common for the founder of a family business to sell someone in his family business after a long business. More often than not, the person is willing to help with the financing of the purchase, e.g. by receiving, in part or in all, in the form of debt doctrine. Such financing is often a prerequisite for business management. At the same time, the rights of other Heirs are guaranteed, for the relative property is sold at a fair market price, not underprivileged, as is sometimes the case when the generation change is guaranteed. As a result, right down to the end of this wicked system of things is a place of rest and peace. By publishing debt theories from buyers, the seller actually acquires the value of a retirement fund, which guarantees his income. The person's soul before the bill ends is divided between an heir in accordance with the law and will, if appropriate. As with standard employment, sales between generations of farms have often been difficult. When it comes to dealing with the trade, stock prices or food prices for farms are often high below market prices, making a great deal of tax markets. It requires paying a income tax that can be difficult for a seller if part of it is in the form of a debt theory. In some cases, it may mean that essential generation cannot occur. This inhibits the necessary development of rural areas and also catalyses the removal of land, as it may be easier to sell farms under a function where the rate is higher than in agriculture, and capitalization is facilitated. As shown in the bill's report, there are some relevant legal documents that allow them to postpone or distribute tax pay on sales. For example, if the seller has had a tax in at least two years. However, rural areas do not always have a clear separation between farming and household, and for example, all property is usually placed on mortgages for the farm, including the housing business. According to 3 mg. Section 15. legal in terms of income taxation is permitted by the seller to request an extension of total taxation of goods over two years, to obtain similar property or housing for its own use within that time. This is a policy that applies specifically to the sales of farms and unflavourable natural resources on farms. The requirement is that farming has been on the earth for five years in the last eight years, as well as buying other farms or apartments for your own use, the price of having them and running them for at least two years. In a 22nd degree. is a general authority to distribute tax pay on abduction or possession education that is considered to be as high as five years, but, in fact, only three in the case of unpricable property and in the 27th paragraph. is a general authority to distribute taxes for the sale of the items paid by a seal loan or a three - year - old debt theory, but no longer than seven years. The bill suggests that this release will be cleared so that in the cases mentioned in this article, sales will be distributed for up to 20 years. There are some ways to establish a private partner and continue to sell the stock. It is used as the translocation route of property according to the management report of the provision of the provisional owner into private stocks and property as well as a synonym to the company. In the stock market, the capital tax rests, not on income tax, but on the market. In effect, that is how valid such laws are, which are not particularly desirable. To cope with the problem and to promote continued food production, it is appropriate to encourage soil maintenance. The effect of the bill on the income of a government fund, if it becomes legal, is negligible to the longer term, and could actually lead to a considerable increase in the number, the motivation for bringing property between generations on subsidies, and thus not to care for the interests of other heirs in the same way as before. Madam President. I suggest the bill go to what? The Economic and Business Committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u71	A respectable president. I propose a proposal for a hearing that adds to my impressions of others. Councilmen Left Green, Ingi In Jónsson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Heiða Guðný Ásgeirsdóttir, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir Magnúsdo, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynjolfótir, and Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir. The suggestion reads: The General concluded that the Minister of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities would establish an immigrant counseling agency, including suggesting an appropriate adjustment of the law. The role of the agency must offer available counselling and information to immigrants about services, rights and duties. The consulting agency will also be a platform for social and psychological support to provide support for effective community involvement in Iceland. Ministers have close contacts with the European Union and with leading immigrants in the development and management of the consulting office, the Red Cross, the labor movement, and other members of the organisations and institutions involved in the matter. The secretary would like to introduce the General Plan to the project as late as May 1, 2019. A respectable president. The proposed issues of this case are especially indicated in this series of reports cited in the case article, e.g. A report on the affairs of foreigners and immigrants in Iceland, a report of the Department of Health on the State and Development of immigrants and the National Institutes of International Affairs on the Analysis of Refugees Services. Then I can mention Reykjavíkurburg's policy in the affairs of immigrants, refugees and candidates for international protection. It has been observed that in spite of the fine work done and the well - being of various institutions, which do well for these matters, the ministry is a minor offense. Therefore, many of the reports that I referred to give greater agreement and aim to set up sites where most immigrants are, i.e. in the capital area. That is why a minister will be assigned to establish this new consulting agency. In fact, the report shows that the objective of this synonym is to establish a central information agency where immigrants can collect all the information on services, rights and responsibilities that help them establish themselves in a new community. The proposal assumes that Member States and rural partnerships will be supported by a counseling agency, including other institutions as well as partners, where immigrants can take on information across rural areas. Artists are referring to people in Iceland who were born abroad, regardless of civil rights, and they also contain the concept of refugees, as well as candidates for international protection. A respectable president. It is a big step for all to move to another country and start a new life. There are reasons for that step, but whether it is taken voluntarily or out of necessity, it is in the best interests of all to have the best guidance on the new society. It makes changes in people's condition lighter and at the same time helps them to become much more active in society and may become more productive. Thus, it is important that all in one place take in information about the new society, which rights and services are available, as well as about the duties that its inhabitants must meet. It would be such a place where all needed information and counseling could be obtained under the same roof. In English it has been called, by permission of the President, the place where people can come and be guided for all that their rights and duties lie. A respectable president. The report reviews examples of similar activities around the world, e.g. correspondent in Lisbon and elsewhere in Portugal, Canada, and Denmark In many areas, this work is being done more extensively than it is suggested and includes the various projects in this country under the Office of Work and the State's Insurance Agency. As I came into my previous language, extensive assessments and reports have been made on the status and affairs of refugees and immigrants, and it is said that there is a greater need to coordinate the ministry, to get more focus on how these issues are performed so that it is more clear to the people who use this service where they are looking to access that information. That's what counts, i.e. The people who will use the service. In these reports, there is reason to conclude that there is a greater need for harmony in this series than this one would suggest. These issues are in the hands of two advisers, and I think we need a job to settle over the seminary and try to figure out the best way to make all of this clear, have the least complex level. I quoted a report prepared by the Ministry of State and the Ministry of Health, which states that the proposals there will be set up for the formation of foreigners and immigrants to, by the permission of presidents, by the permission of the presidents, by the ◯ Compatibility and to coordinate the measures of many tasks that have a high degree of misunderstandings, can be predictable and unpredictable and call for quick, while careful decisions in individual and family matters. It is important to look to the other northern countries and the example set in adjusting candidates for international protection and refugees, especially the Red Cross. I can inform you that in the result of this matter's contributions, I spoke to a number of people who come to this class, including the Red Cross. I spoke to a party at Reykjavíkurburg and introduced the idea to people from the labor movement because a town has a great job to do when it comes to giving immigrants information about their rights and duties. Then, after hearing about this matter and being positive about it, many people have contacted me. Among the people I spoke to before I presented the case was the Western Museum, where there is a need for work and a good job in these matters. There are a number of situations in which the work of the counseling agency here is being implemented. The report reviews the projects of the Multicultural site. When I referred earlier to the need to make even some adjustment, I was especially looking forward to the projects being carried out in the United States and elsewhere. The final result of that work will be if I agree to hide the minister of the project, but I trust both sides. A committee of this matter and then a minister to process it. All I know is that the harmony needs to be, and especially when it's time for a multi-cultural setting. In that regard, there are some things that I randomly mention and that I don't suggest. This may harmonize as a single institution, have functions not only in Western areas but also in the capital area. Thus, there could be a change in the law on the Multicreature and expand its activities, that would have branches in the capital area, etc. In any case, it is important to sit over, coordinate, and establish this direct service, which is left behind in all the reports I refer to here. You see, it is important to look for immigrants to live in the capital area. Although in some cases it is not all that mattered, it can do so in this case, and it is important that such activity is here so that people can simply walk off the street. However, it is important that this counseling agency be made available to receive and care for people who turn to it from all over the world. Therefore, it has to be ensured from the beginning that telecommunications facilities are nice and through the so-called Internet, which is probably not infested after all. It's important to this counseling agency, and it's the thought that I think it's important to come up here, that there will be cooperation across administrative points, state and societies, that this cooperation will be with the institutions involved in this matter. I have a special place in the United States, but it also requires cooperation with parties such as the Red Cross, Mimi ◯ Seducation, which is a member of the union and the labor force itself. Whether people are here to sit permanently or simply work for a while, so we can simplify it by settling here for a while and it's good. The more complicated things are, the more people have to move from place to place, and the more they need to go, and the more they do not make sense to have efficiency as well as to the extent or feeling of the people who are looking for them. A respectable president. Therefore, the minister is assigned to have close cooperation with all the members I have gathered here. I especially wish for it. The welfare committee, which I will suggest for review, will continue with all the questions I have asked, e.g. to cooperate with the Multiculture and other bodies, whether or not there should be anyone else involved in this and how a business arrangement of such an institution should be conducted. The report refers to Bjarkarlls, a center for victims of violence and employment in Reykjavík. It contains all the services for victims of violence under the same roof. The state of Reykjavík and the city of Reykjavík have partners on the business. Everything seems to be an option in that opinion. This doesn't necessarily have to be driven by a state or a community. Maybe the Red Cross is the best one to run like this, or a multi-cultural facility, as mentioned earlier. It is uncertain how much cost comes from the formation of immigrants'counseling agency and how much the wealth would be affected. The report explains that the cost of a government agency with five employees is about 55 million. K. But I ask all of us to bear in mind that the costs are absolutely uncertain because part of the work being done is already being done elsewhere. The interfaith effects of this will make it difficult to grasp the cost. In fact, I don't think he would eventually be great, since projects are being done in many places and the more involved with them by his knowledge and expertise, and put them all in this same place, the better will be, and the more the harmony will be. A respectable president. I suggest that the case be referred to. The welfare committee following the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u72	A respectable president. This is a synopsis of the establishment of the immigrant counseling agency, and the State will set it up. Her role will be, with the permission of the President: ...to offer available counselling and information to immigrants about services, rights and duties. The consulting agency will also be a platform for social and psychological support to provide support for effective community involvement in Iceland. It so happens that at Ásafjörður, there is a multicultural building that began in 2001, taking the initiative of the Westerners. At the General Assembly, there was an agreement with a synopsis that triggered this, and it read: ▪ The work of the Centers must be done for the relations of Icelanders and foreign citizens, working with rural governments to expand their ministry for foreign citizens, preventing problems in dealing with people of diverse cultures, and making adjustments in foreign society. This is how the work of the Museum is built. It provides information to the government and especially to the rural communities, which often refer first to and also to other institutions, companies and individuals in connection with the affairs of immigrants, as well as to keep immigrants informed about their rights and duties. So I want to ask you why. Kolbeinn Francis Óttarsson Proppér's senator, whether he believes that a multicultural site cannot totally produce this role and whether it is really needed for this institution. And if so, would it not be possible to start a branch in the capital area? Then I enter another part of a second speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u73	A respectable president. I thought that was it. A senator would have sat and listened to my talk, giving me all the questions that were raised in the matter. A senator earlier. I said that it could simply be a branch office from the United States. I said there's a job and a good job. I thought, however, that there would be an even greater partnership over the affairs of that group than is laid down in the Mosaic Law on the place of civilization. The legal nature of the project of the Multicultural site is particularly indicated in the case. I don't think I've ever mentioned an organization as often in my case just before and in the modern civilization, if it's possible that there's an immigrant counseling room on which the proposal goes out. A respectable president. I have sensed a measure of caution, and this is especially true of those in the northwestern district, and last week we were here. A member of the Union who directly encouraged this proposal to be withdrawn. I find special care in members of Congress why. Northwestern district. I understand her well. I understand that they want to protect the good work being done in the United States. That's exactly why I contacted a multicultural facility before making this synopsis proposal and having a very positive response. In that town, the people were very excited about it, so I thought nothing of using the suggestion, repeating it over and over in my case over and over again that the cooperation must be good. A respectable president. I repeat, I'm going to do it again. The welfare committee will continue to cooperate with the precise way in which the organization will be organized. [[The president calls.]] However, this is a significant expansion of activities compared to those laid down in the Enlightenment of the Multiculture Act.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u74	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I listened so carefully to his speech that I noticed that he was talking about misunderstandings and partnerships, and I began to wonder if it wasn't more complicated to set up another institution, although I fully understand that this business must also be here in the capital area. Hv. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttirsson Proppé mentioned that this was needed and that was a matter of a law on a multicultural setting. Do they need to be adjusted or met if they should set up a branch office here? If so, I would also like to ask, " Should I take assignments from the House of England? ' I think that such an institution, if it's put up specifically, might weaken the existing institution. Would it not be necessary to build on her experience and expand her activities? Then I'd like to ask, if this is to be done in good cooperation and I know it will be, I don't doubt that the operation that has been there almost ten years, is there any danger of being carried away from the United States mansion?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u75	A respectable president. I wasn't the one who suddenly sat down, and thought, " There's gonna be a little bit more complicated, and there's a more precise rule or how to put it in these matters. ' I quoted a few reports here in my case, which are found in the report. One of them was prepared for the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Health in 2016. Now I don't remember it so well, but isn't it true that the Ministry of Health in 2016? It's like I remember it. The report offers proposals for extensive changes in the structure and administration of foreigners and immigrants. Among the suggestions are the setting up for the establishment of foreign and immigrants to be, I now quote directly into the report, a dignified president, a coordinated, and coordinated measures to resolve many tasks that have a high degree of interference, can be predictable and unpredictable and call for quick but careful decisions on individual and family matters. This is from a controversial report prepared for the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Health in 2016. At that time, there was a community setting for good work. So yes, it seems that the need is being made to reduce the misunderstanding. In particular, for the ministry it was suggested that an organization be established to reduce it. This is actually a part of the idea that we're working on. Again asked why. A senator of things I thought I had answered. Does Law Need to Be Changed? Yes, that's what the report says. Perhaps a change of the law about the National Park is needed so that it will take over the projects. That's where the operation goes? I just don't know. I feel that it is important to protect the work there. Maybe there's an operation. In the end, it is the Committee and so secretary to find out how these matters will be best handled and at the same time protect the current activities, as clearly indicated in my case and the report. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u76	Madam President. We'll discuss a proposal for a hearing about the establishment of the immigrant counseling agency. It is a joy to know that the affairs of immigrants are being paid attention. This growing group is growing considerably fast and is a valuable member of the Icelandic community. As shown in the case of an executive, living is vital for those who move to the land. We are to live well with all those who have lived here since childhood as well as those who move to the country. We are not fighting those groups. All these people are precious to us. A goal of the Senate resolution is, so I'll witness, by permission of the President, in the report: ▪... to establish a central information agency where immigrants can collect all the information on services, rights and responsibilities which will help them establish themselves in a new community. It has been shown that we have an established institution, not in 101, but at Isafjoinn, a multicultural site that has worked since the turn of the century and has fulfilled its role according to circumstances and circumstances, and is able to do so well but with financial resources. I can feel it from my conversations with the users of the National Institute of Iceland that they are never guaranteeing their place, they are always checking whether the Agency is working very well. It meets me in such a way that the roles of these two institutions are completely compatible. What we lack is the same as said before. A senator and a pilot, adapting his walk, synchronizing the procedure, making better progress and more specific service to the new Icelanders. It seems to be thinking in the same way as before, thinking in the silos, i.e. a new institution. It doesn't have to be. Of course, humans can work well together. At the beginning of 2017, there were 36,000 immigrants in Iceland, 11% of the population. By that time, the number of immigrants had increased by more than 4,000 since 2016. About half of them live in Reykjavík. The other half live in the neighboring settlements of Reykjavík and are scattered throughout the country. Therefore, such service is not necessarily given primarily in Reykjavík but also in the country. Technology is loyal to us. There have been reports of telecommunications, et cetera. That line works in both directions. The expansion of immigrants continues. The increase has increased since 2012 by 8% of the population in terms of approximately 11%, as noted. Another generation of immigrants are also numerous, and they now number some 4,500. So we are forming a deep - seated generation. A combined group of the first and second generations of immigrants is about 12% of the population in Iceland. That ratio has never been higher by Iceland's Habitat. Madam President. The experience of international migration and migration should be positive in view of the personal history of Icelanders and migration between countries, both in the past and in the last few years. Thousands of us went to the Western world together, and we also traveled thousands of us throughout the last few years throughout the world, much to the north. What is the experience? The experience of immigrants around the world is that they face opposition more often than in some form in a new community. This has been confirmed in reports including report of the 2014 Multi-ethnic Institute and Human Rights Office of Iceland. The role and adjustment of immigrants in the world are discussed and written together. The red thread throughout this discussion and the way it works is always the same as the one often mentioned three things: the attitude of the local people, the outcome, the importance of a wholesome community discussion brought on by governments and the active, well - defined long - term process. These factors are a very important key to getting access to all aspects of society, whether it is the education system, the work market, the housing system, health services, sports and youth service, to name something. It may be noted that at the end of 2014, the welfare minister proposed a Convention Reconsistentinement Plan on Import Management Plan for the fall of 2016 to be adopted by the new Member States. Of course, it is urgent that the suggestions presented in the program become real projects and permanent topics, that they become part of a long-term policy. It's not a long-term policy. It's suggested that we start one more office. We need to add, coordinate the formation of immigrants by reviewing the institutions we have, the Foreign Institute, to strengthen a multicultural facility, the institution to be under government law to maintain and trust in the adaptation of immigrants to the community. We also need to expand the development fund of immigrants so that they can care for the work assigned to the press. A respectable president. In the North, there is the most competitive communities in the world with equality, welfare, and social responsibilities ahead of them. The northern countries have also taken the lead in the affairs of immigrants. The better standing of immigrants in Iceland and the development of such policies has become urgent and is a matter of justice, as well as an important part of the building of multicultural society, which promotes humanitarianness and diversity. Both contribute to greater creation, global vision, intellectual activation, society's benefit. Achieving, well - being, and active participation in all are the hallmarks of successful community making and the basis for competitive employment. Iceland is now likely involved in immigrants, where many nearby countries were years ago or decades ago. Governments should learn a lesson from experience and upbuilding development in various aspects of the case in other nations. That's where we need to get on with it. Iceland is to be in the lead when it comes to dealing with this trend and building on a strong baseline justice. Iceland has already become a multinational society that is supposed to honor equality and justice, with respect for individual freedoms in favor of religion, principles, and values of various ways without discrimination. In such a community there is no room for racism and prejudice or any other discrimination, whether because of religion, culture, or other factors. Hence, it is such a joy that people pay attention to their concerns, wanting to strengthen their services, equipment, and facilities for the new Icelanders, who are growing ever. This is the point: Do we need to start a new organization? Is it not closer to strengthen the organization we already have? There may be posts in two places. I see in the motion that there are 55 million estimates. K. I'll tell you what's going to happen, but next year, it's 38.7 million people next year. In order to fulfill its vital role, it might take only some of that amount for a multicultural location.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u77	A respectable president. I didn't get it from me to take an answer to what happened. A senator because, on the ground, I think we agree completely. I wanted to come up here because, as I mentioned in my first speech, I don't know if fear is the right word, the worry may be a better word, because by some means it's being weighed into the role of a multicultural site. I think they're normal. I don't think it's just about to live or anything like that, I think this is going to turn to, too, because they're doing a very good job in the Multi-City site, and people don't quite understand the point of making a suggestion, a respectable president, so I'll witness at any point. paritaprevir The Guvigner of S. Brjánsson, still in the office. I thought why. A senator talks as if this were still one of the institutions, that would not be the way we should go. No, we're not about to start some institutions just to start institutions. But when a report on the report suggests that the complexity of these issues will be simplified, in which a new institution is proposed, should we not listen to experts? If experts report two problems with counseling, talking about a new agency, should we just say no, another organization? Or should we be open - minded about perhaps there is something in all the indications that we have seen? Here, only a few of them are referred to. A clearer view of this class needs to be somehow clearer, and it needs to be reduced to the ambiguousness and make it all simpler. That's the thought, a respectable president, with this proposal. I'm going to say here that I don't care for myself if this institution is going to be an immigrant consulting room or not, or if the law on a multicultural site is simply changed and its role is extended. I don't think an institution like this should hear directly under a minister, as the House of England does today. That's where I can see, for example. the need to change the law. I think this should be an umbrella for all the people involved in these matters, which involves the service of people who move here to the country, whether for six months to work on construction projects or six years to get their feet on some disaster, or 60 years, and then the descendants and descendants of the next 600 years. I think all of us have goals that don't matter. That's why I didn't want to answer the question. A senator because I think that on the basis we're completely in agreement, including me and the other. paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir and all the senators I've heard express themselves on this matter. That's why I'd like to reiterate that it's not being set up against the National Park. It's more of a setup. I don't necessarily think that we're at the point where this operation is perfect the way it is and we can't sit over it and watch it, it can't be extended, there can be no more people involved and there can't be any more looking around. It may be that Reykjavíkurburg has issued an approved policy in which the city of Reykjavík is considering the same schedule. I think there's a place to go. Whether it's under the hat of the Multi-Center and in some form of cooperation, it's just the best idea. If we feel that having an organization like this is more complicated, as it is here known as an immigrant consulting center next to a multihuman site, let's not do it, but change the environment we have today, and expand the operation of a multicultural site. That's why I didn't want to answer sitting alone in my office, even though I was talking to people in town before I submitted it. I want to go. The welfare committee puts their arms around this, collect comments from here, and there will be no fear of changing and adapting the environment we live in today's world with a clear goal of making the best of our service to immigrants. If we make it together, it doesn't matter if it's called an immigrant consulting room, if it's still one of the agencies, or what it is. I believe, more dignified President, that we all have that common goal. That is why I have high expectations to watch. The welfare committee will cooperate with this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u78	V.E.G. President. I recommend here for the synopsis of the government's tournament policy with a special view of farms. This is actually the fourth time I recommend this proposal, but it is presented here in a slightly altered form. She reads this time: ▪ The General concluded that developing general policies on property and rights in the State will be specifically discussed in farms that will be considered for housing, protection, tourism, and the possibility of human farming. The minister introduces the government's policy for the council no later than January 1, 2019,How would you feel about it? At previous contributions, there were envelopes from the National Farmers Association, the Council of the River Valley District, Isafjörg, State Rentation, a Frustration Place and the Environment Agency. Commentors took either under the aim of the synopsis proposal and recommended its progress or failed to make comments on its contents. With this proposal, the minister of finance and economics is committed to specifically dealing with farms in a general policy of property and rights owned by the State to which it should be set at 2 mg. 43. g. track No. 123/2015, public financial matters. It will look to camps, nature protection, tourism, and the ability to start farming. The development of recent years has been that more and more land has gone out of an apartment and has weakened much of the scattered areas of the country, which are important based on local policy, and to ensure food production and equality to farm. During the past decade, there have been significant changes in rural land use, but the change that has become the most widespread is a large number of people whose job prospects are largely determined. In particular, the aim of this proposal is to guide the development of the government's general policies and policy to ensure the ability of people to start farming. Natural protection and tourism development are also needed. Similarly, any type of land belonging to the State and therefore, which areas are better off owned by a private member. In 2013 the Environment and Resource Minister appointed a rural and sustainable land use group. The final report by the August 2015 workgroup shows that it is important to shape the government's land policy, how to use and care for it, including whether and what soils should be due to their State's special status, which may be sold and where to rent, and after what may be done, by what means. Many lands owned by the State have a unique position on nature, history, and culture, but most farms and land are under the supervision of the institutions of the State or its candidates who use them for hire. According to the Law of the Earth, No. 81/2004, the Ministry of Economics and Economic Affairs will administer government custody and enforce the laws for buying, selling, and other government arrangements. The law does not require that the State set a specific course for its land. Law No. However, 123/2015, of public finances, is a reference to the obligation of a minister to shape a general policy of government property and rights. Such policy should be discussed on the objectives and priorities of the State's handling and use of property and rights by category 1. 43. Brew, like 2nd. 43. g. The law. The main factors of such a course were proposed on October 5, 2017. That policy has not been approved. As shown in a special discussion at the last assembly, the one listed here used is to review the comments received and improve the details that were published there. This was shown in the case of the highest. Secretary of finance. It also included a minister's will to establish a financial counseling group that will provide advice on final suggestions. I hope it's all coming out, but in view of the fact that there seems to be a few things, we'll put this case right here for the fourth time, just as I came to hand. This is a huge deal. The proposal also discusses the trade of foreigners who have been greatly involved in the recent discussion and are calling for action in all of these matters. Discussion of the landing of foreigners is not new. On April 17, 2013, the current Minister of Internal Affairs, Ögmundur Jónasson, set up a new set of regulations for the purchase of foreigners with a legal home in the European Economic Area on property here. According to her, the EEA citizens were not allowed to buy land in Iceland unless they had a legitimate stay or function of the country. A few months later, the protocol was taken out of existence by a local Minister, Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, who did not consider this Regulation to be compatible with the commitments of the country because of the European Economics Convention. In January 2017, a so - called marine economist and agricultural minister ordered a group of workers to revise the laws and regulations of the trades of foreign citizens in Iceland. The staff is aimed at evaluating the limitations most likely to be considered in maintaining agricultural and agricultural habitats in the rural areas. In this regard, the maintenance of agricultural land is limited in Danish land laws and conditions set for foreign citizens'purchases. It's urgent, as I came to this point, and it's important that we take our place in these matters, but in this suggestion, we're only talking about farms owned by the state. That's a very specific case. But in a written answer from the existing financial and economic minister who obtained here at the 145th leg of law, it was found that the state fund had 450 soils and a large proportion of them were being used for agricultural purposes. Governments care for the affairs of most of the land or about 315 soils daily. Then there are 122 labour contracts for state ownership due to farms. According to Article 12. Is God's Way of Life? No. 80/2004, the crew should have stuck on a farm and do agricultural activities unless otherwise agreed. A number of contracts have been made for the market where renters live on earth. It is also common for soil to be rented for cunning and to be used by someone who lives on the adjacent soil. A house - to - house arrangement is essential for the start of a building, so deserts in general are not suitable for an apartment. The opening point was that little seemed to be happening to people's wish to live on earth or to take over land. It was slow. However, it should be noted that it has been moved, and efforts have been made to push the movement forward. Nevertheless, it has not gone fast enough in the eyes of many and among the others, since conditions in the countryside are not good enough. The Kingdom can take a view of certain aspects of the earth; how we will enjoy it; what the earth will be used for; what will be used for? But on the ground, I think we need to be aware of the question of whether we're going to produce food in this country or not. I think that's what we're supposed to do. We're here to talk about the foodland of Iceland. Here we are all capable of producing good, good, clean products that we can be proud of. I'd like to mention, in view of events that just happened this year, that it doesn't have to go far to see an example of farmers getting in trouble. There is no safety in food production. We need to ensure continued food production in this country. In this part the State can enter and help to enjoy earth. We also fully appreciate it, and we need to make it necessary to see that this is not a place for so - called traditional farming on all the earth. There are great changes to take place and events that have taken place. Humans are enjoying more than one earth and need it, since many earths are not large. But we need to set a clear policy on these issues, such as so many others, so we can keep up with them, and if we are to continue to strengthen ourselves and that is what we want, farming in Iceland, we need to take these steps and keep our arms on the subject. We have a lot of work data. A wide range of materials have been processed in view of the fact that this is a national planning policy and that it is being won. How will we protect a productive land, what will we use it for? Are we going to take everything under forests? Then there's another thing I'd like us to talk about, about how we can come into it, the state might step into it, but it's that all over the country is running crazy. That's not good. If we let it continue, we are losing valuables. As farmers have been doing for a long time, can we use our equipment for healing? All over the country, you've been taking advantage of field - to - land hay and it's very effective and it's been successful, we've hit a few birds in the same strokes, we've maintained valuables, we're building up the country, we've got to make a lot of jobs, etc. Is this something we can look at on these earth? There are many possibilities. Nevertheless, I think it's a very urgent project, that we go to the direction and follow it. I hope this case has its place here at the council. But I'm not done. Well, then I'll just bring this one more time, if that's what it takes, we'll do it. That's what the media says. However, in addition to the present, the movers are Anna Sævarsdóttir, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir and Willum Þór Thor Þórsson. V.E.G. President. After this discussion, I suggest that the case be referred to. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u79	Mr. President. I could not refrain from merely having a place to say to a 1st transporterr. paritaprevir My Þórunn Egilsdóttir, of the council's counsel that is set here, which I support in a material sense. I hope it doesn't take many more tests than we'll see about that. I wondered if this counciling proposal is going well enough. I think there's some particular reason that the world in general owns the state. Of course, there are some historical reasons why land has been owned by the State; then, it may be cultural and natural value that is behind our agreeing that the State belongs to that one. But when soil is in general flogging, it must be a great deal of effort for us to rid the property from the State and to go to the inhabitants who use the earth. I wondered, " Am I doing well because there's no place to go where the state's going when it comes to property? ' Was it possible for transporters to suggest that, in cooperation with the candidates, there will be a plan on how to bring up the inhabitants of the land but to be prepared under certain agreements - and I see that there are another hundred such soils - directly owned by a resident?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u80	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason for this answer. These issues can all be considered and recorded. We can fully discuss whether the Kingdom should usually own a land or not. But we can also wonder, as the situation is now, that it is extremely difficult for young people to start farming. We have a lot of highly educated people to do agriculture. Is it possible for the State to make it easier for people to enter the industry? We want food production here, and we want to build the whole country. How will we use the earth? There's a lot of work in that sector, finding out how we're going to use it, what country to use for what. I think we can totally take that discussion away, how we're going to do this. We've already put in a very ambitious rural program that we're going to work on. Everything needs to talk, every plan of the state. Now we're talking about the integration of the entire government strategy, and the Council is now working on integrating all plans, whether it's a process of development, transportation plan, or whatever. Couldn't this job fit in, i.e. how we're going to use these earths? Of course, we need to talk about where the line is, which ground we can naturally consider to be the subject of the state for historical or special reasons, the earth that the State should contain and use. But then there is the question, How can the State do so and support this area as we have been doing, just to make sure that we are still living the whole country?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u81	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I agree with her that there are certain reasons why the State has certain soils. There's no dispute. But I assure you, with regard to the vast majority of the 450 land owned by the state, there is no reason and there is no argument behind the possession. That's why I think we should start that discussion, in the context of molding the owners' policy, in the way the State takes a certain step in freeing this holding. I think the first step should be in consultation and cooperation with the candidates on that planet. We need to find out just how we can help them to possess the earth they are using. I think it's wise. I also wondered why it is considered wise for the custody of a planet to be at the hands of a financial and economic minister. I believe there are stronger reasons for the custody of the Earth, at least if you have a labour agreement, if you have a agricultural minister. It ensures at least More convergence, perhaps making more sure that someone has a place in the possession of such an earth. There are other types of soil that can be excluded, such as why. A senator came to this point, which we historical and culturally believe we should all share, as the Senator illustrates. But I also wondered if it's not exactly my job at the moment. The job committee, to consider these points.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u82	V.E.G. President. I thank you again. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason for the counter. Yes, I'm happy if we continue to make this discussion. This is to push it. Of course, we need to lay the ground down for which it is normal for the Kingdom to belong. Is it more than normal that the State supervises this number of earths? Hv. A senator also asked if it is above the head that this is for financial guardianship. I can imagine a better conjunction and a better perspective if the farms that are new to agriculture were to be served by agrienvironmental ministers. But then we need to talk about whether or not we're going to go where the state's holding the land where farming is. But if we can find ways to help people to continue farming, start farming, then I'm happy. That's very good. For there certainly is, as I came to this day, a great deal of young, educated people to do farming, and we have to somehow find ways. We are now, for example. talking about land healing, carbon tracks, and things like that. Is there any way to share in that work, helping to reach out for the land? This is just an idea that I'm rolling up here, which we could so carefully look at. I'll agree that I hope we continue this matter. But we're not done. We're more tenacious than that, the carriers of this proposal. Let's just hope this happens.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u83	Mr. President. I agree with what has been presented here, and it shows in this council resolution that it is important to establish a policy of ownership for the property of the state and how to use and arrange for it. I would also like to agree with that as well. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason said earlier, it's important at this job, and when the motion comes to the committee that we try to find out, as he rightly mentioned, how the crews can have the land they sit on. This discussion is natural for farmers who have lived for decades on that earth, and for decades, and who have made it normal and important to consider them in this work. I would also like to agree with that as well. Transporter and w. paritaprevir When Þórunn, the Egilsdóttir of Egil, mentioned earlier, she spoke about the importance of food production. I'll agree with that. As we look around ourselves, we see the importance of food production in this country. A senator correctly mentioned, there is a drought in Scandinavia, and we are getting reports of a great drought in countries such as Australia, the United States, etc. It doesn't take much to freak out. We need a very powerful and reliable agriculture to support the government. It is economicly practical, and all of us would like to have the land inhabited. Sadly, though, the way the Kingdom government treats its inhabitants on earth has not been exemplary. I think we can all agree with that. We've heard about that. Here at the last assembly, there was a special discussion about this, about the welfare of the state and its candidates. The following are examples of how the Kingdom government has dealt with its members, who, unfortunately, are not exemplary in many ways. The next year's financial bill receives the Earth Fund and the State's land ownership of 123 million. It is clear, therefore, that there are some employees who are working on this party. Even so, in some cases it takes many years to answer the issues coming from citizens of the state. It's a good thing to have a tenure, but you can't hide behind the fact that it is missing when government laws are simply broken in farmers who live on the world and ask questions only a few years later. As I said before, it is important that this country be inhabited. That's how I like it. You could say that there is nothing more sad than seeing deserts and big, handsome tuna gone off in the open. That is not how we want it. Governments have even set up a special campaign in certain areas of the country to keep the country inhabited, a campaign that has been identified as the settlements. At the same time, though, the inactivity of the state's domain at the time allows people to give up waiting for answers and move away. Even from the fragile settlements in which the State's authority is then trying to support them. There are a number of cases in which children in the country want to take over their parents'farms, with the goal of expanding houses and meeting new Kingdom standards. It's not the problem that the state's home is where the children of an resident come into the house. However, the Kingdom power stands in the way of all structure on these earth, where it does not allow any major projects. And a major project is natural to build a new fish so that new supplies can be met. It will be according to these requirements to renew many of these houses to the future. The State's release in such a way is simply that the inhabitants can take property from the earth to be built. But building a large stream without the earth is not efficient, but I think it must be understood. On the other hand, it seems difficult for those who work for the State to understand these matters. Of course, we would not accept such grand advantages, thinking that we will have some investment in large buildings, such as brose, without guaranteeing that you will be able to use the land that is needed permanently, in order to make good use of the investments that could be made of bridge buildings. The question is, Can we buy the earth? Yes, it may be possible to buy the earth, but in most cases the office that cares for the state of the country from under the surface of the earth brings it to a land transplant. It's quite remarkable that the land transplant is becoming an institution that collects land. You ask yourself, " Is it the purpose of land healing? ' Is not the purpose of helping people, farmers, or other landowners to make up land? There are many examples of how the State government has acted in a negative way toward its inhabitants. Getting the answer to whether a new stream can be built will take years. Everyone sees that no one can do that kind of business that needs to be subject to such behavior, and I allow myself to resign from this platform, contempt. I hope for the fourth time that this synoptic proposal has been made that I understand it may be possible to improve the situation, but perhaps it describes the situation that this proposal is being made for the fourth time. It seems that there is a lack of interest in improving the situation that is truly needed. I am afraid, however, that after considering these matters and discussing with the inhabitants of the state, all of which have the same history, it may take years to shape the government's policy on land. On the other hand, what can be done immediately is to improve the work of the land of the State, that employees want to be able to identify and respond quickly and effectively. I really hope that we can begin to treat Kingdom citizens in a decent way and to resolve this issue, which, unfortunately, has been too long over all of us. I welcome this suggestion, and I know that there's a good mind behind it. Senator. She went in here on a number of factors that matter. I hope this time, the fourth time, the matter is well paid from this hall and within the Committee so that everyone can enjoy the pleasure and especially the inhabitants of the state of the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-24-9.u84	A respectable president. Here we will discuss how the government's policy will be developed because of farms. I am an importer for that suggestion, along with other members of the parish. I believe it is extremely important that the proposal be discussed in the Senate Hall, discussed in committees, and conducted. As is the case during the discussion, there are many things to consider and take into consideration. Land, and so ground, are not like any other real estate. A country is a resource, such as land and soil, and the vegetation that thrives there, whether natural or cultivated. In addition, land may follow other valuable things, such as fishing or water rights. The treatment and use of the land are relevant now and in the future. The public has much to do with how we employ our country. It is a major public benefit in the provision of the country in general, and therefore it is a matter of possession and decision-making, including a provision of the state. Governments in themselves are not much of a bulldozer in the land. There are 6,600 farms registered at the end of 2017, but there are only about 450 of them. Of the 450 soils, about half are used in agriculture, over 120 have a building letter, but a similar number is used by other farmers, about 100. Less than 100 are destroyed, and about 100 are for the sake of their Kingdom stocks, such as state wooding, land healing, or others. There are some loose soils at any given time, probably less than a dozen now. The states are not even spread around the country, they are disintegrating somewhat different, but most are in the East and in the West Skapter County, just in the areas where palaces are built and are rather fragile according to that definition. In view of its inequities, the responsibilities of Kingdom citizens are a complex matter for close - up society, since when the earth is destroyed, it has a wide variety of impacts and strains that should be least disturbed by the extent of its distribution. According to the 2011 state - to - land regulations, they should normally be arranged for apartments or rented contracts, such as best fitted with the aims of farms and agriculture. These rules have not been adhered to in recent years, but as previously said, there is a high level of public interest in the arrangement. Of course, they can include other forms of farming, which is one of the goals that must be pursued to explain the goals, if the State is to have land, what should be the purpose of holding? They can and will likely be different from profiting from their land use. The objectives are linked in some way to the preservation of resources and sources that have been built up. In view of this, if it is desirable or wise for those who want to start farming to have the opportunity to rent land and then have the opportunity to rent land from the State, or would it be possible to rent more than one with many people? What is the long - term public interest? I think it may be wise for the state to have some land and land directly to help restore agriculture, at least it's very important to take a stand on that. Then I think that it is very important to look at community planning plans in terms of government development and other limitations in the design of the earth, whether by sale or in any other way. In planning procedures, it would be wise to set a country that at any given time should ensure that is ready for agricultural use, whether in use or not. It is part of the nation's food security. Or it may be possible for a plan of planning to specify an area where the right place to live would be desirable. This could be with various goals. It would be to ensure a certain community structure. It could also be a precaution. One city along the highway of the country can make a difference in the safety of road users. We can name roads, such as the Triad wilderness or the Deepland. That's one of the things I think it's important to include in the discussion. It may be appropriate to introduce a bill for next year's budget as a means of sales or renting on several different states. So I mention some of them is Unos in the River Valley region, Crevices in the city, Bakkakot II in Skaftár Jeep. These are lands that have been authorized for sale or rent in recent years but that have not necessarily been followed by action, the earth has not been advertised, nor have there been clear answers about a provision, though it has been sought by interested persons. It is important to have this discussion and it is important that the proposal be made for further discussion. A policy of government nature cannot stand a waiting process in my opinion. It's been way too late for years. For good reason, the State has been claimed to be a poor farmer, for regardless of its property and use, it is always the role of a farmer or an overseer in maintaining and building up valuables, the resource he is caring for. It involves self-sufficiency.
