ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u1	The president considers it possible for a conference to last longer than the Council of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u2	Borist has a letter from the 7th. That's the north side. "Elsen Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, Olsen Bjarkey, "that she can't attend next week. So today, at Council 1, a deputy of the left movement's list serves as a Ingibjörg bid in the district of I Þórðardóttir Thordddddótttir. She has previously taken her place at the General Assembly and is welcome back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u3	Borist has received a letter from the prime minister asking for every request to give a written answer to a letter on the subject. 481, on the basis of the Commission's work, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. Borist has received a letter from a health minister asking for every request to provide a written answer to a covering query. 507, for the construction of the Land Hospital, from Anna Colb Kolbrún The Year's Árnadóttir. Borist has two letters from the financial and economic secretary asking for every request to give written answers to the inquiries on the deck. Forty-seven, on equal judgment, from Andrés Ingi Jónsson, and on a threshing floor. 482, on the basis of the Commission's work, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. Finally, two letters from the minister of foreign affairs have been received where request is made to provide written answers to inquiries. 464, with regard to the development and humanitarian assistance, from the Brazilian Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, and on the threshing floor. 489, on the basis of the Commission's work, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u4	Mr. President. I want to make serious comments to the fact that we're repeatedly circling with the highest company. A minister in unsubstantiated question time, and this occurs on short notice. This was expected to be the highest. A minister of health would answer today, and members of the Parliament have prepared for this in mind. Right now, before a meeting meeting begins, we notice that the end has been at its height. Healthcare Minister out and set the top. Minister of Justice instead. We've been discussing an organization and leadership at the council, and so on. I complain about it, and I make those comments, and I beg to the highest degree. President of the business of bringing it to the government that it's not going to work like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u5	A respectable president. First, I want to say the word with the question. paritaprevir It's a whole new Oddný Harðardóttir. This ring-in-the-box isn't an offer. Senators have prepared to ask a minister who has been advertised for quite some time to be here to answer. Then the minister will disappear and someone new will appear. That's not how we want to work here. I'd like to ask the highest, too. The president's understanding of when a meeting meeting should be held today. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u6	A respectable president. I have to say the word with what. My fellow council members for the forethought of the ministers in attendance. I also want to direct the idea to the president in general that there may be a better idea for each individual senators to ask, and they could be more involved in the advice of what ministers are present at a time, depending on what is going on in society at a time, than with some premonition so that members of Congress can prepare themselves so that we can get the most out of these discussions and there is some purpose in all of this together. Of course, it's impossible for us to find out in 15 minutes what ministers are here to answer. Like others, I find it sad that we haven't had enough time to prepare the ministerhood that we are being offered today. And I'd also like to stress that I don't remember asking for the approval of the council groups for a meeting to continue today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u7	President. I want to take this opportunity and agree with those who have spoken before. This is uncomfortable for everyone, especially uncomfortable for a small body of councils who have to work quite hard to organize their work, to benefit everyone, to be blundering with it up and down at very low notice. Ministers see fit to be here every time. There must be a better way to deal with this. Another thing I'd like to ask a respectable president is why, while ordering the Council of the Federal Bank and the RuV Government to be taken off the program, the program for a request for a report made to the arms transfers, a request to the minister of foreign state is canceled. I don't see the need to take it out of a schedule today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u8	A respectable president. I've been around here for a couple of council members who don't know that it's been agreed that there would be an extended conference, probably on a later date than 8:00. I was at a council meeting back then. I don't remember that. The other people at that meeting, and I've been talking about it, they don't even know it. The question was asked before what? A senator when this agreement was agreed on. I expect, with all due respect, to the highest. The president will answer that question. I come up here just to ask that question, and if ever. The president would simply have answered a question. A senator earlier might not have had to, if there had been an explanation. I also think this should remind us that we should not make decisions at the council meetings for the benefit of an idea, and if no one is specifically opposed, it is automatically adopted. It's exhausting having to be groping over it. V.E.G. I'm sure the president agrees. But I'm gonna ask you again, like what? A senator earlier: When was it decided and approved among the council groups that there was a meeting longer than the council anticipated?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u9	The president's problem is that there are still some who want to talk to a conference board, and before the president answers, it may be nice to hear what is on the mind. But I will answer the questions that have been raised when the President's conference board has been emptied. At least I'm going to allow the members of all Congress to appear before I step into the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u10	Mr. President. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir It's a whole Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter and another what. Councilmen here have spoken to. This practice, that it is not in good advance which ministers are responding here in time of inquiry, is naturally completely unorthodox and unsurpassed. There is no secret at least that in some of the smaller council groups here, it is proposed at council meetings how people interfere with inquiries and, of course, need to have detailed information on what ministers are responding. Good and helpful inquiry, of course, calls for preparation, and I allow myself to direct it very strongly to the president that there will be some improvements in this subject and that there will be an advance and will be a good obligatory reply.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u11	Mr. President. This is where people have been wondering if there was any approval of the council groups for being in the evening. It's a matter of opinion on the subject, but I have to admit that after a council meeting, I assumed that it would be this evening. I remember the president saying that there was something to say and no one has spoken against it. I say this from memory, and I don't think it's a surprise to say that a longer meeting would be scheduled for today, considering the events on the program, and considering that no further meeting will be held for the next few days. With regard to the presence of a minister, I think the president and the Ministers usually work hard to get this information on the best notice, but from that, of course, there will be some variation. I think it may be said that here are the ministers of a vital and large number of lawsuits that do not always find that during an unprepared question period, there is a chance for a representative of the government stand and others to ask at this meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u12	The president wants to respond even though there are still three members of a panel of prime speakers who have already been in the discussion and respond normally. First of all, I agree that it is most unfortunate that sudden changes will occur in the event of a minister in unprepared question period. Generally, things rarely happen, and most often the list has been kept in advance. This time both are that there are few ministers, and one change was made, i.e. It can be said that the Minister of Justice has been replaced for health care. I checked this morning with prime minister whether more ministers could be present for the prepared question period, but the reasons why many have been absent. that it takes place at the same time as we are here to speak of the main meeting of the Association of Employment, and there are several ministers who are late. Second, I'd like to say that on Monday it was, like, a week ago, that they put in the Senate for the week and on this day. Then my suggestion was that those programs would bring the Minister's bills that would not be settled on Tuesday. It was then clear that there would be a fairly long meeting today, i.e. You may need a long meeting. It may be called correctly that this agreement was not formally agreed on, that a meeting could last longer than a political body assume, but no one would object to the information presented there that was sent out to all the council plans on Friday. However, they may have been preparing for a celebration, not paying attention to that broadcast. If there is no agreement that a meeting meeting can last longer tonight, or rather a meeting, since a meeting will be expected to be divided in half, it is a proposal for the president to vote for it at the start of the second meeting. Third, ask why the election is not scheduled today. The answer is, unfortunately, that they are not quite ready, what should be chosen. There was not a complete decision for members of Congress who were to appoint their representatives, e.g. Regarding the radio board.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u13	Your report request.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u14	Regarding the request, the president received a letter today from the Ministry of State with comments that the president intends to take the time to review. I have already informed the first person on the report that this is the basis of the annual vote. Then, at the end of the conference, it may be added that it is all going to be a short conference for elections on Wednesday, due to the election that we have to postpone today. Wait a minute. Councilmen preparing for today's off elections to move to a brief meeting that will only be set on Wednesday afternoon to vote for what can be chosen. Those are the answers of the president. Wish me. Generals after going to the trouble of discussing the President's meeting board?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u15	Mr. President. I appreciate the President for this explanation. However, I have to say that on the table all of us have a schedule that has been distributed just prior to the unsatisfactory meeting, which shows that are still inside sections 2, 3 and 4, i.e. The elections, and the review report. When you visit the meeting's Web site, there is also an out - of - date program. One wonder: How should members of Congress prepare and prepare for a conversation in the Hall so that when a Senate has no idea what to discuss, it can only change immediately? Both issues are scheduled and taken out of the program. I also wondered about the report that was to be discussed: Is it so, Mr. President, that when a secretary's report is asked to determine what the report request is about? If members of Congress request a report from a minister, can the Minister intervene and consider whether the report is granted to the chamber or not? [[The president calls.]] Is that how it's supposed to work?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u16	Mr. President. Regarding the Congress Act, it says, by permission of the President, in 10. par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: A serious conference according to a work programme shall be held no longer until the end of the year. 8 afternoon. However, if members of Congress agree on it or if the council agrees... That. to propose to the president he has presented now. However, there are members of Congress who must agree on this. When we decided what sort of commission our council leader had to negotiate for us on behalf of the president of the United States, we made a very careful consideration of Pirata's council. It matters that it is the council that has this authority, which means that our senator needs a commission from his council regarding these things. As a result, the president cannot make decisions regarding the length of a meeting beyond what the law says except, as it says, consents. And it is not said of the intended consent, he must accept an active consent. That's what makes it the highest. The Speaker may see that a theory must be taught. This must be established by Congress party Porta, for all that the law says must be agreed on, in this case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u17	There's no need for a prolongation on this. If you say that a meeting lasts longer than a body meeting is expected, the meeting will no longer be held unless you are authorized to do so by the council. The president has already announced that he proposes that a meeting will last longer than the law expects, and then the following will be chosen. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u18	A respectable president. I wanted to draw attention to some words. paritaprevir Birgir, Ármannsson of the Yearman here, and a dignified president on the program of the Parliaments that will be discussed in the near future and now. My understanding was that if there was no completion of the administrative committees scheduled for the last Tuesday, they would walk over on Monday. But they were all smart. There was no question that there would be other issues. Given the appearance of this ring-in-the-box, I think it's only a point that we need the President's suggestions written in order to explain what's going to be approved, what we're going to do and what we're going to do here in the near future. It doesn't work out just between men, that's what they said and the other one was told, and then it goes across the cross. I suggest to the president that the President's proposal for a long meeting, a case on the program, will simply be written from now on.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u19	President. My introduction to this discussion is that when representatives of several classes come here and declare that they did not understand that they had not agreed on a longer assembly meeting today, it may be most convenient for the president to give up responsibility in the way of saying that there are classes to teach, that people may have missed their e - mails because of the preparation of parties or something like this, and rather admit that the president may need to sit down with members of the council and only discuss whether there is a better way to accept such things in the future so that there is no doubt. There should not be any doubt about such matters. It's only supposed to be informed and effective consent. I propose, and I give you the highest order. To have this conversation and to try to find a better way to get this informed consent.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u20	President. I would like to continue with this discussion on the request that is being delayed. I have to admit I'm no bigger than I'm so I'm just not sure why a government call can stop here, at least for two days, if not anymore, a petition for an estimated number of members of this report. Well, that's a rather large period of the same time, isn't it? For a considerable time, the request has been tied up with the Foreign Affairs Committee for a considerable period of time. It is simply not being asked for anything else with reference to 54th par. Parliamentary law but that the Secretary of Foreign Affairs will provide a written report on performance and responsibility for international commitments in terms of permit or provision for arms transport in which there will be a procedure, the chain of responsibility, and the political order. I have to say, this trouble with getting this report here, meeting all conditions, through the council, is starting to raise questions to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u21	A respectable president. I just wanted to reiterate it as a matter of course. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson said. My understanding was that, and I was at the council meeting last week, that things last week would move on to this day if they hadn't run out. But they ended last week. At least that was my understanding and clearly more. In some way, it is foreign to belittle people. In fact, I did not experience it at this particular meeting, but it is foreign to belittle such complaints of the government resistance as if it were somehow her fault, as if she should have done something else, as the president mentioned earlier, that perhaps members of the Parliament might have been too busy preparing the entertainment program on Friday. I'd like to make a comment to that word, a respectable president. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] I don't think it's appropriate that the president is sending some pills to the council that they're preparing for entertainment, so they don't follow their mail, so they don't know what's going on at this conference. I checked that mail. There's nothing in him about this. It does not always mean throwing responsibility at other members of Congress, let alone the opposition. It's not like we're making this up. [[The president calls.]] The solution is presented here. It's very simple: Make it written. Why is it possible for every organization to do so unless this one? What's the matter, Mr. Honorable President? Why does this need to be so? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u22	Mr. President. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson's son and repeat my surprise that the two program parts, i.e. The weapons transport report is off schedule today. I can't figure it out. This huge case that blew up the media here some time ago, though it has been taking a turn on a committee. Why is this report stopped? How is it possible for the Commission to come in here and stop such a necessary report? Why is this acceptable? I think it's a very serious matter. Only to try to guide the president is it not only sent e - mails and text messages about the other meeting and this on the subject of a vote at the council room and that way, so I think it would only be cool if we got e - mails and possible text messages when there's a big change in the program so you don't have to feel things like that. þm. A Birgir's farm said, or felt things. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u23	A respectable president. I haven't made it a rule to come up with this program, but because it's called the President's Conference Board, I just want to commend a meeting manager who I think is in full agreement with the Congress. We have often talked about it here that it would be good to be more alert, but now we've spent almost half an hour discussing whether something is on the schedule or not on the program and whether a meeting will be longer or not at the highest level. The president has announced that he will submit a vote later today regarding the possibility of a meeting. So I also pointed out that if we were to save that half-hour, we might have started the program, and then maybe we'd have to have a meeting tonight.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u24	Mr. President. In terms of the request presented here, of course, it is in order that it should be made as a media request from the General Assembly and be accepted here in the Hall of Congress. I suppose the president has decided to postpone this report request in view of the tools to direct the report to the minister under or without the case. I think it's normal, and people don't have to go into some conspiracy theories about it. It is only natural for these things to be explained specifically, given the fact that comments on this factor have been made. It is not that the information requested is somehow being prevented. Rather, the question is, Whom should the report request be directed? Rather than taking a vote in which people were able to handle this, I think that the president intended to get a clearer picture of that conclusion before a direct vote came to the Congress on that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u25	Mr. President. I must express my joy to the point. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson of a year seems to know the mind of a president very well. If we knew him, we might have had some kind of explanation. Then there would be no conspiracy theories. Rather, we would simply be informed of the course of events. And as for that, the debate is, we're asking that better consultations be made with us about the operation of the council, that silence is not equal to approval, which is no longer a popular saying, just so I keep it up, just not. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] That we can be clear and that we are diligent in communicating information to one another. We senators can take it to heart; perhaps we need to be clearer in what we consider to be consenting and what we do not, but obviously all must be based on the better information here on who ministers are in attendance, that we get to know in advance, and why are we delaying some report for the State Department's request, and why we are having a meeting longer today without any knowledge of its existence. Information!
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u26	In the first place, the president wants to ask for respect from having made a failed attempt to lighten the tone here in the discussion. It didn't fall on good soil, and I just prayed for credit. It was not intended to speak down to members of Congress or to disrespect them in any way. They carefully monitor their e-mails, etc. Second, I would like to say that the issues taken out of the program, 2nd, 3 / 4 are unconcerned. Since there is an election without discussion, it is not that efforts are greatly disturbed by the preparation of members of Congress, that people have prepared, not discussions on matters that are not under discussion, but solely for payment. All other aspects of the day's presentation will remain the same. Friday, with the only change, which all had. Council members should be aware of this fact, at the first point of the program, a new election is being made, i.e. The vote for a state accountant. Regarding the request, after lunch, I received a letter from the Secretary of State, signed by the Ministry on behalf of the Minister, which gave a perspective on certain issues concerning this request, which led to the president's decision, having agreed with his advisers, that there would be nothing to be left to consider. I immediately identified the first delivery officer of the petition. There is nothing more than for this request to be agreed on, of course, and the will of the council on that subject. The Ministry of State does not tell us what to do in order to be clear. I proclaimed that this vote is likely to take place on Wednesday, together with others who will likely have to attend a special meeting that will be announced on that subject. Then I can explain my reaction or my position on the comments made by the Ministry of State and inform members of Congress about them. I think it's more objective that this matter can be considered in this way before a vote. I couldn't have let her come out here today without knowing about this letter. Everyone has a why. Councilmen to see that it had not been perplexing. Besides, I don't know if I can deepen my understanding of how the day's program came about. My understanding of this was that we had made it clear on Monday that there would be one meeting date again this week, i.e. That day, and then he would have a unorthodox format, i.e. not only unprepared inquiries but, rather, they would be directors who would not have been there on Tuesday or who would have walked off that program. It was quite clear that at least two and, indeed, three ministers did not come to the point that on Tuesday, although it was a productive day. That is the suggestion and the proposal for the second session, and we will begin by voting on how long that meeting can last.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u27	To answer, Minister of Justice, travel, industrial and innovation ministers, Environment and Resource Ministers and Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u28	A respectable president. As we know, the County Court of Reykjavík and the National Supreme Court of Iceland have reached the highest level. Minister of Justice, Sigríður Andersen, has broken the law, i.e. 10th par. Government law, when she appointed judges at the National Court last year. The minister did not perform an adequate study of candidates for the appointment of the judge and did not provide sufficient support for his decision to deviate from the judgment of the applicant's ability to qualify as judges in accordance with the requirements required by the government. At present, two passing candidates have been convicted of a misdeeds and are now being debated in the courts as to whether Arnfríður Einarsdóttir, one of the four judges appointed to the hearing of a judicial committee, can rightly be considered a governor of the court and a member of the National Court. This unprecedented position, I hope, we all know in this hall, the highest. I'm sure Minister of Justice is the best. It is difficult to argue that this situation undermines all our confidence in the judicial system and its independence. It also gives us many reasons for distrust of the highest power. Minister of justice in these matters over his head. I wanted to review this story in order to keep the context of my personal query to the highest level. Minister of Justice. That inquiry has to do with confidence in courts and opinions. It belongs to a minister. Last week was the highest. Minister for word. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson of a new re-election court to which the Minister intends to establish, and there came a word of confidence. A senator to the highest. Ministers to orders in yet another judgment phase and in the circumstances I have described above. During those discussions, the highest. Minister of the following words to my fellow troop, my lord. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, with permission of President: ▪ In this program, as in every other part of the world, people fly the way they are feathered. When it comes to justice, I think. One senator may be among those who might consider whether his speaking on this matter could be involved. In my previous inquiry here, I would like to ask the highest. Minister what to talk about. To answer clearly about those words, the senator considers the country's courts to be undermined. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u29	A respectable president. Hv. A senator could have participated in this fine discussion that I gave last week and in the reorganization court. There I had a word with certain members of the council, both in talks and in answers. In those quoted words, there was a sharpness. A senator I'm referring to a recommendation as a matter of course. This has been the case by members of Congress, as well as the claims that the courts were undermined by the order of the National Court. Therefore I will direct it to those who have these or those things, and will bring them back to them; and I will speak these words to the houses of the fathers, as they call them, and I will show them who causes them. There are comments like this, including. From this dignified public address, which has just fallen far more than many other things to undermine the trust and credibility of the established authorities.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u30	A respectable president. I want to start by informing the highest. A minister on that last week I was serving as a foreign member of the council and, unfortunately, could not participate in this very interesting discussion. On the other hand, my relationships, as they grow bigger and longer, become more and more clear at the highest. Minister of Justice that here is a bit like talking to the emperor who was not wearing any clothes, was naked, but teaches the child, pointing out constantly that he is all visible. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Does she feel that she has no responsibility for what we here call distrust to the courts and is going on? Does she feel that she has no responsibility for our lack of trust? Minister to enter a new court order? Is there no basis for her to try to earn her confidence in her ability to appoint a new level of judgment? Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u31	A respectable president. I can't take any responsibility for what I'm thinking. Senator. If he doesn't trust in the courts, I am not accused; but rather, he must seek out his own interpretation. I don't know better than that men should go to the courts for some reason in a very great and rich way, at least the one standing here, but I have, as it were, rejoiced that men would consult the courts to settle all differences. That is exactly where people are to seek help to settle their differences. All I've seen is that men trust all judges very well to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u32	A respectable president. I want to do the highest. A health minister explains what I just had this weekend. I was in a meeting with the people of the Kingdom Hall in Kópavogi, senior citizens, who have received a letter of resignation from their landlords, and they are to be evicted. The oldest one will be 90 in the fall and she's to leave first, she's to go on May 1, the others go on October 1. The lead of this resignation is that the residents felt that they were the ones they had done in their dealings with the landlord, since they had been made payable a portion of a house that wasn't theirs to pay. It is most painful to say that after a long walk with the landlord who had done nothing with what they had to offer and ignored all corrections and adjustments in that direction, they had judicial cases against the landlord for the County Court of Reykjavík. They won that case on February 10, 2017. More than a month later, they received their resignation. If they did not sign the changes in a contract, where they gave up all the money that the court had given them, they could take their bag and go. This is actually the security of the people of the Kingdom Hall and of the older citizens who are becoming 90 years of age. I'm asking the highest. J.A.: What are we going to do, chief? Minister of welfare, to prevent such things and to help these people?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u33	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Inga Sæland for this inquiry. I had seen this story in the papers and to the reason. A senator would have had a meeting there, as she described. As this brings to my attention, to the group in this issue, there is a view of the financial situation of older citizens whose worst income makes and is starting work in preparation for measures specifically aimed at them. However, this issue may have more to do with such housing than social security in general or something like that. What I've felt and have been seeing happen - this unique thing has not come into the table of Ministers, just to be said - it seems that the rent market in Iceland is becoming, in effect, the removal of anything called social approach. I think there is reason to settle over that matter and see what you can do about it. There's reports from around the country that tenants, private tenants owned by big pension funds, including, do a pretty hard work with tenants. This is a project that needs to be considered and that needs to be started. There is work in planning at the Ministry, not perhaps on this particular matter, but on the whole tenant market, on the clearer rules of play, and on other things that tend to attract to parts of that subject. The person standing here intends to start a job looking at those factors. This unique matter has not entered the Ministry's table or to the minister, but as it is described by force. A senator and he's been done in the media, I really think it's shocking.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u34	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Social and equal minister for the answer. Now this case is at the top of the table. Minister of well-being. The fact is, the landlord, who in this case is the daughter of Council of Christmas, is a motherhood of all the Haffnist homes. That's what Nussar's called. As we know, the Waffen Homes are making deals with Iceland's health insurance, so it's not so we're not supposed to put our hands on the case and there's no government money. I say, although this case is here, we're talking about about about about about about... 200 apartments that Nausta left to senior citizens, and everyone has been paid according to the judgment that fell in February last year's district, which said that they were breaking that law and that they should not pay the money that was then discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u35	A respectable president. Just to underscore what I said earlier, these news reports and similar reports are often not presented in the media, namely, that this issue is under consideration. I'd like to say that I've already announced a particular landlord, the biggest one, to me, who may hopefully be soon, in order to discuss the rules of this market, and whether there is no reason for anyone only to take care of social views on that subject. [[Up front.]] I would also like to add, after the reports from the current language. A senator here mentioned that I have also reported to the renters involved that I was planning to arrange a meeting to review these unique cases and other similar cases. I just want to say that I think today's rented situation in Iceland calls for the government to be ready to take a closer look at these matters, for this is often lacking a bit of the social nerve.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u36	A respectable president. I'd like to talk to the highest possibles. Ministers on energy and transport, in large numbers of areas of transport. Recently we saw, and indeed it was in the news on March 26, that a license for the so-called Keyring Line was canceled. The town government of Hafnarfjörður has said it was a shock, and it is clear that this has a significant impact on the local community, especially where large investments were put in new areas, i.e. in the square side, where the estimated 520 apartments are, and started building, including in schools and other such services. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if it is proselytized to change the law so that it can't be reported at such an advanced stage or the start of a procedure. Second, I asked whether a minister thinks that rural society, in this case of Hafnarfjörður, would have had to be a little more careful with his strategy, in view of the fact that this process was still possible. Third, I'm asking if it's the highest. Ministers have contacted with Landsnet and local authorities on this project.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u37	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for the inquiry. So it is to say that I regularly meet with the Landsnet, and I have specifically discussed this project. I have not been contacted by the Landsnet after the last result was clear, the decision-making committee of environmental and resource matters. I've also not been meeting with my communities. So far, not so far, my rural society hasn't asked for a meeting with me because of that. In general, we all know in this room that these issues are complex and delicate. I'm sure we here disagree to some extent on how far we should go in action and on environmental matters, as well as on charges and other matters. I've discussed it many times in my department, and with my members as well as the members of the council here on this balance, that we have a little difficulty finding it. I have also often asked, and I have considered how far we are going. Are we in any situation beyond international agreements or EU requirements? There are conflicting views on this, including the matter. Interaction between recruitment agents. I think it would be the most promising thing to do if we could get more people on that table earlier in the process in order to try to get some inconsistency and conflict and sue earlier in the process, but not at this point as late as it is right now. But if it's our duty to let go even. The last aspect of interest may be limited in studying just to work with each other better together. We have a variety of projects, whether by roadside or by Landsnet, which can be incredibly difficult and are taking quite a long time. [[The president calls.]] Surely all of us would agree to want to fix it somehow.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u38	A respectable president. Thank you, Minister for this. I would like to reiterate the question, Do Ministers believe that there is a possibility of changing the law in order to prevent this from happening again? If a minister believes that we are bound to some sort of non-employment international agreements, I ask if there is any reason to reconsider that agreement. I would like to know. Then I want to point out the highest. A minister says that she can totally take the initiative to meet with rural society. This is an enormous and important case for these communities. I'd also like to ask a minister if she feels that law will simply be set as the home of this line.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u39	Mr. President. Of course, a minister can always take the initiative to request a meeting with the people of any case. Of course, you can read in it if rural society does not specifically request a meeting with a minister in this situation, whether it is not needed, or if that request is yet to come. It may well be that I will ask for a meeting with them to review this matter. Of course, the operation has long been in the system, and rural society has worked very hard on it. With regard to international agreements, that is a big question. If you ask me if I'd somehow like to break up Iceland from the Árús deal, I'm not ready to say it. Still, I am more than willing to go over properly whether we are in some situation going beyond what needs to be done. And if we are, what does that mean? I'm just looking at the whole transport system and we're seeing it's too weak. Various projects have taken way too long. But whether there is a specific law to be performed - it is generally not good. [[The president calls.]] I don't think that's a good practice. Instead, I think we should try to make peace with our whole project better.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u40	A respectable president. I have the same thing, and I think I have the solution for this situation. So I'd like to ask the highest. Industrial Minister to Landsnet and Hamslin's case, but as it is known, high-voltation lines exist through the Sagitvellar Environment in Hafnarfjörður where property has been assigned in the confidence that Landsnet is in the final and repeated agreements that these lines will be drawn. They were upset by their plans for the past month when the Environmental and Resource Decision Committee invalidates the implementation of keyring line, which provided the basis for the removal of the modem line. Landsnet has been given some time to deal with this, but Hafnarfjörður farm has now been allowed to show the company a waiting attitude for up to a decade. According to a contract made in 2009, the transmission of the lines was completed in 2017. To this end, a land net is called upon to consider the benefits of laying this line on the ground, which is one of the primary reasons for the failure to perform such an assessment. The land's network was going to put a key fold line on water protection zones, so it was naturally charged. The Union of Hafnarfjörður has proposed that the projections will already be constructed through Hafnarfjörður and meet these, of course, the requirements of the people of the Skyfjords and of Skards, to eliminate such structures from their backyard, as previously stated, have been built there, confident that Landsnet is in the process of contracting. So I want to ask the highest. Industrial Minister: Does it consider that this solution will be seriously examined in the spirit of the 21st century's environmental policy?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u41	Mr. President. First, to answer a matter of speculation about a ground cord, whether it applies there, and how the Landsnet looks at it. I would generally like to say that we have here at the council an odorary proposal for the construction of the electrical transport system. Hence, it is done in a very high position to examine our strengths in terms of a ground cord. That's something we haven't done before, at least not the way it is being preached. I now feel that it matters, and I feel that with the suggestion to reach out to the point of view. A senator tore in here and I personally feel it's important to do so. Of course, we need to consider what is technically practical, what is practical according to costs. Then there are persons with differing opinions about how to calculate the cost of life, the cost of life, and the cost to justify it, etc. This is always the same story when we try to balance economic, environmental and social factors. Then we make different evaluations. In general, with regard to Landsnet, I may not be able to say much more than simply follow the rules. If I'm going to use myself in a special way in a special case, then I'm going to say that I demand that they follow the rules, and that I do so myself to me and the Ministry. I haven't gotten a table to myself, and I haven't had a chance to look at it specifically to apply myself in that matter as a matter of course. There's a senator here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u42	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, excellent answers. I think it's all right. I think it's all moving toward a solution. We know this guy is the highest. A government has certain ideas about the meaning of the word's meaning special support and distinguishes between special support and general support. I may hope that this highest one. Government and supreme. A minister will give general support to putting this line on the ground. These areas are divided by harbor subversive conditions. This is a starting planning based on confident that these high-voltage lines will all be gone, or they will be able to imagine what it feels like to have a buzzing power line over their head every day and every night. It's natural that you don't invite anyone. [[The president calls.]] Landsnet has been drawing its feet in this case since 2009 and has long since come to realize that the company will not be doing this anymore. I expect a minister to give it general support.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u43	Mr. President. My general support is in the interest of a more reasonable approach. I'm just saying again, people have to follow protocols, whether it's institutions, politicians, rurals, business, or anyone else. You feel that there are some changes in your attitude toward these matters. It's happening at the same time that we look up a system that needs to be trusted. There's a certain point of view. But I think we in general can try to improve the solidarity of these matters. Of course, when you talk with people, most people love nature and want to see normal work structure and do what is reasonable, watch water - protection areas, and want to be careful that it is not too far into them. I'm just saying, the general support is quite reasonable.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u44	Mr. President. We have recently received reports indicating that we may be slowing down in our economy and, especially, in travel services that have dragged our wagon in recent years. For example, in recent years the underlying sizes of economic growth have primarily been the tourism of the growing exports and, in fact, with considerable benefit to other exports because of high growth intensity. Now, however, it seems that tourism itself is becoming, some sort of victim of its success, we can say, i.e. that the great gang strength has begun to meet the article for which it is not very well. You can even say that. see the figures on credit cards that have been in constant contractions since November. There is a small increase in hostels in hotels for at least what is of this year, a smaller growth in the number of passengers in the Cheflavík airport compared to what Isvia had previously anticipated. Now for the weekend, news came from a search engine analysis that might even indicate that a recession was ahead, which has so far been virtually impossible in this discussion. But, of course, there is good reason for caution when Iceland is so expensive in international comparison. That's why I wanted to ask the highest. Minister: What is the assessment of the situation and the signs in progress? Has the Ministry had some assessments of travel status, how could a serious relapse in this article affect the article itself and the key enterprises within it?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u45	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. The growth we've seen over the past few years has been enormous. In fact, I think that everyone agrees that he was unsatisfactory, at least if we watch how much he's been for a long time. You know, the article itself, I can say that it's not the head count that's important, it's what we're getting out of the article in general and there. Watching that growth is shrinking. Of course, there have been some signs that have told us that it was likely. Despite the fact that this growth is smaller than some projections were expected, such as whales. A senator came in with me about Isavia, at this point I have no concern that growth is smaller. It is a key factor to try to look to why that is so. Like a snooze. A senator came in to the point that the article was possibly a victim of his own success, and the figure has grown stronger. The important thing is that prices and quality remain in the hands. With regard to the use of credit cards, it may not be surprising that tourists spend less in Icelandic dollars, but we also see that they actually spend similar amounts of money in their currency. You can now totally connect with what it is like, what country you go to, and how the currency is there. As for the search engine news, they themselves were on their own alert to the extent to which it was set. That was a very interesting presentation. Of course, there are clues. Banks have been reporting. And in the Effl project that I've been on before, we're trying to look into, among other things, how the tourism today affects the economic factor and how much change they can have. Of course, major changes in tourism have a significant impact on the economic factor since tourism has become such a major part of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u46	President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. Of course, it is clear that the outstanding growth in the traveling work in recent years is unprecedented, and it is always worrying when articles grow that fast. We have seen, for example, that it can cause a lot of trouble when it hits the background rocks, although only slightly, e.g. looking at the increase in debt of this article along with increased investments, financial risks that have become considerable with the article itself, and much less with what systemal risk may exist within the article. We have two airlines that carry the heat and the weight of passengers to and from the country. If one of these associates were to become seriously troubled or even bankrupt, what would be the result? In the past, we have made it difficult not to look for any possible problems ahead of time, as we had in the past ten years ago. [[The president calls.]] We can see again and again that growth is brought up by a single industry, which carries a considerable risk to the Icelandic economy. That's why I think it's very important for the highest level. To see how this might affect you, a minister and her Ministry are engaged in such diagnostic work. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u47	Mr. President. In many ways, I agree. A senator who tells me that I have personally been preoccupied with the factors he is involved in, and he has tried to find the question of a good path in my career. Among other things, I look at what happened here about a decade ago. We learn from experience, even though it is not necessarily in the same market or sector as before. We need to watch it, and that's what I've been busy with, that we just have a completely different environment than was here before. The exchange is very different. The cake looks very different, and then we have to be prepared for what happens. And there is something else that can happen in this cookie than the cookie that was here 10 years ago. Being prepared is what matters. Among other things, I consider the Eflu project to be part of it, but of course we're doing other things to try to figure it out and be prepared for what can happen and what the consequences will be if certain factors happen by drawing up these scenarios.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u48	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister of Justice very much for coming here today to the council. Last week, we spoke to members of Congress on the financial program for the next five years, which is most likely to be the most important document in every government. It contains information on expenses and income, but also very important information about politics, policy. That is why it is important for ministers to come to speak for their group of litigation. That's what's at the top. Last week, a minister of justice had a problem with dead people. It's good to have a discussion here today. The language of foreign citizens interests me after my work in that field in the past decade or so. Sadly, I have observed a very relaxed service stage in the institution of foreign service. It is a service agency that has been further fired, as a police state. However, financial programmes will help us to see coverage of alienities where there is little room for humanity, but there is much more to talk about the sharpness of human beings. The minister of justice, who has attacked a number of local lawsuits, laws, and regulations, especially because of the speed of the departure of those who come to her for no reason on international protection. Also, it has undergone the removal of special protection for children by regulations in March. But first, the highest. The Minister of Justice is here at the Assembly Hall, and I have to ask: Since financial programs are merely ostentatious and difficult to determine how money is set aside, that is 600 million. K. the procedure related to the issue area 10 related to the number of topics I have discussed here, i.e. Foreign matter? Or is it the National Church? Is it a personal protection? Or is it the newly restored Justice Department that faces the cutting knife?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u49	A respectable president. First, I want to correct wrong things. A senator and a judge of the rights of children who come here to seek refuge. From time to time, the claim that these children's rights have been impaired in one way or another, but they have the rights of children, both homeless children and children, who accompany their family, or those who claim to be their family, and who take refuge, on the contrary, were strengthened and all the services of children as well. That's how it is now, for example. that family take refuge has always been a special consideration for the child's interests. Children's issues are always examined, not even without escort, but with their parents or with their families. Otherwise, it can be said of the financial program that it is, of course, a document that is not intended to expound in a very precise way how money is distributed to individual groups within a particular set of cases, but it is being set frames for the next year. This, in turn, depends on each minister. Hv. A senator refers to the topic field No. 10, which is the right of individuals. It is true that a little less money is expected. It is distributed on a variety of cases within this range as a result of economic management, including On account of a new Ministry of Justice, the Office of State Regression. It is proper to draw attention to the fact that the affairs of the Church are completely out of the picture, but there is a need to conclude negotiations with the National Church. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u50	Mr. President. It would have been good if a minister had answered a little bit of the question that pointed at it. But I have to ask a minister to the foreign citizens who are here asking for privacy. It is not the only case with a large financial group; it is only those who are looking for international protection and not with regard to those who are applying for a living, not for young children born in this country, students, artists, sports heroes, or traveling workers. The government's financial program has nothing to say about this group. There are other language groups that refer to performing a service survey to see how the various institutions can succeed. But for some reason it is completely released when it comes to foreign citizens. And at the same time that the Hagues Office's new statistics show that 16.5% of the people in Iceland, those who are much better able to help us build the economy, are among them, and that group is increasing. [[The president calls.]] That's why I'm asking the minister, is the highest. Minister completely unappreciative of the services given to the Foreign Institute? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-16-50.u51	A respectable president. It would always be more fun to have a word here with members of the council without these rousings and jubilities that are committed here, as some have said, a minister who is not here no longer concerned with the services given by certain cabinet ministers. On the contrary, I am very interested in the ability of the Foreign Institute to perform its legal role, which may well include. to those who apply here for a permit, to come here for a standard purpose for longer or shorter living, to ask for employment permit, and so on. But it has to be said just as it is that I am concerned that the Foreign Institute has not been able to function that role with this zeal as best chosen, including. Because of the pressures that this agency has had in the past miseries in the most difficult and new projects that include: ... toreflectingextremements for asylum in the country. But I hope there's a better way, including... with the full experience of the Agency's personnel and with a decrease in pressures due to trust and change of laws relating to housing permits and previous changes in employment permits. [[The president calls.]] This has led to very positive results for the work of the Foreign Institute. [[The president calls.]]
