ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u1	Borist's letter from Þórunn the Egilsdóttir of Eglís, Bergþór Ólason, Inga Sæland and Magnúsdóttir Hynus Island was that they can't do Congress in the near future. A letter has also been received by the chairman of the Independence Party that Ásmundur Friðriksson cannot attend congregation meetings in the near future. So yesterday, on Monday, January 29, September 29, took up residence at the General Assembly, which was a member of the Continental Ingi Pétursson, the daughter of Maríanna Eva Ragnarsdóttir, Guðmundur Sævar Sævarsson, Bjarni Jónsson, and Konráðsdóttir Konsádóttir. Bjarni Jónsson and Konráðsdóttir Konásdóttsdóttir have taken a seat before at the General Assembly and are welcome back to work. The letter of the Þórarinn of Ingi, the son of Pétursson, Maríanna Eva, the daughter of Ragnarsdóttir and the Guðmundur of Sævar, the son of Sævarsson, has already been investigated and approved, but they have not previously taken their place at the General Assembly, so it is necessary to sign a vow of honor to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u2	The Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson, Maríanna Eva Ragnarsdóttir and Guðmundur Sævarsson have signed their vows to the Constitution and are welcome to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u3	Borist has received a letter from the Ministry of Education and Culture where request is made to provide a written answer for the application of the spell. 32 C.E. About high school teachers'agreements, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u4	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Health, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Marine and Agriculture Ministers and Transport and Regional Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u5	Mr. President. Now reports are received from a successful mental - health team. This is a team of Psychias ◯ Following a close cooperation with the groups of Minds, who have been greatly praised for their work in the service of those who are dealing with spiritual problems. If mental health status is closed, the operation of Faith will be very upset. The team has been operating for 15 years, and more and more results are being drawn from such services. A minister has had strong words not to promote mental - health services. That's where we'd really like to join the United States. Now is to promote the services of the health care of the capital of mental health, which is a long - term step, but I ask the highest degree. Minister: Is its ambition no greater than that a successful, progressive plan should be closed and the function of a spirit force to finance changes in health care? Is it not better to offer more variety in the ministry than to bring everyone to the same assembly?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u6	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It is true that mental health matters are truly focused. Not only are the governments involved but I think we all agree that this seminar party needs more weight on every discussion and, of course, not least the focus on government roads. As a result, I have chosen to present a special report to the General and discuss it here in February on mental health matters in general. Hv. A member of the council specifically asks about a set resort that has been available here in the capital area, the Psychotics of an escort, and the Elisa. In line with a mental - health program, it is to say that the health care of the capital has been given to increase teamwork in mental health and, in fact, increase mental health in the capital area. The next team is what will work here in the western and central areas. As a result, the health care of the capital area has desired to have the team on its own custody and to use the experience of mental health ◯ escorted into that work. That conversation is going on, as I'm told by the health care of the capital and those who have been led by mental health. An exemplary model is that of the model government. In turn, it has been on the table of the Ministry of Social Affairs, that part. As far as I know, its future has been well cared for by the Ministry of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u7	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for the answer and, of course, welcome the announced report in February. But I'd like to ask, what. A senator, for example, came into it only: According to our information, patients seem to have mental health follow - ups with complete uncertainty about what happens to their service. Even the leadings of mental health follow-up do not know when to risk physical activity, let alone the services and/or resources of patients, or whether they will receive it over their heads. Such uncertainty cannot be offered in a more delicate position, can we? What's the secretary's message to these people?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u8	A respectable president. I've had a conversation with the director of the health care of the capital area on this very aspect. I agree with what. Of course, a member of the body of such a group cannot face insecurity; that is absolutely unacceptable. For this reason, I have called in particular response from the health care of the capital area and the answer I receive there is to ensure that future treatments will be prepared within the resources available at the health care of the capital area and that the time ahead will be used to ensure all safety in these measures and that the permafrost, so to speak, will take five to six months.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u9	A respectable president. Recent response highest. The prime minister of my inquiry on how to comply with the regulations of regular and structured information is very interesting, which says on matters other than annual reports of the Ministers under official financial legislation, with permission of the president: ▪... will depend on the subject in each case what is considered sufficient in view of the guidelines for regular and planned information administration. A minister's moral code specifically mentions seeking advice from the Ministry of Presidency. I suppose it means that the Ministry of Presidency has some general standards for maintenance and trust when counseling such matters. I can only assume that the Ministry of Presidency did not provide any advice nor any general criteria for these matters, because they would otherwise have been discussed with us or those criteria in the reply of a prime minister to my inquiry. Therefore, it seems to each minister of his own will to interpret and apply the code of the minister, even when those rules seem so clearly broken, there is no counsel from the prime minister on the matter. My question to the highest. Prime Minister is, because I cannot see the role of a minister in the current situation. I cannot see how to follow them or the consequences of not following them. All I can see is the possibility of well - thought - out decisions and suitable policies on each case. All I see is room for follow-up, so I ask: Is the Minister's Code an ornament?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u10	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. In his inquiry, he referred to a written answer from me to another inquiry of which. Senator. It shows that in current ethics it is responsible for each minister's conduct, but he can seek counsel from the Ministry of Presidency. So it is in the current moral code, as it were. A senator is known. On the other hand, I've started my career, like a whisk. A senator also knows, to review the rules and rules of government interest registration, and to see if there is a better explanation for the standards we follow, whether they may be updated in harmony with what is happening elsewhere in our neighboring countries. That work is taking place. Hv. A senator wondered what the consequences will be if moral standards are ignored and the role of the Ministry of Presidency is played. In the current rules, it is clear that the Ministry of Presidency is the principal adviser, it has no jurisdiction over other advisers, so it's clear and I'll answer any question. It's clear to the senator. Then there is a classic subject, which was designed to be discussed at a annual meeting of the National Institute of Moralology. ... thatI don'tknowhow. A senator sat before a weekend - what the nature of ethical principles is, i.e. whether or not we should talk about violations of ethics and regulations. Is that the way we're supposed to go? Or should the code of ethics be the standard that we use together to form in the General Assembly, put ourselves through a discussion about them, and are, in particular, a source of guidance for ourselves? There are conflicting views among ethics. A senator no doubt recognizes. I don't think it's too bad for a discussion to take place in the U.S. How do we accurately visualize the standards of the Generals? Do we believe that they are under penalty of repair, since this is not in general when it comes to social and social standards?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u11	A respectable president. The Minister's Code of Morality says, with permission of the President: The secretary shall cooperate if his work is considered on the terms of the General or its surveillance agencies and when members of the Parliament request information on the basis of a Senate law. Last week, a minister of finance came up with a vote and protested that he would be asked for a report. The request was said to be unthinked and directed against the wrong minister. I don't give this cohesive a high score. Then there is the legal minister's problem with the case of a judge's order, how that minister has lied about the votes of a whole council, how that minister has repeatedly appeared in the media by misleading messages, how he lied and charged that the matter is to others to blame, and everyone else understands the matter just wrong. I find it obvious that a minister's moral code has been broken and that the prime minister should counsel counsel counsel soldiers in some way in such matters. So I'm asking again, since it's obviously no ornament to what I understood earlier: is the code of the Ministers just a cake? It's a chink because, in spite of obvious offenses, it's just a committee, a case, a tuff, and demeaning them with a vague comparison of past cases, which were silent and tainted in the same way to avoid responsibility and to lead to continued discriminatory and irresponsible conduct. [[The president calls.]] By failing to shoulder responsibility now, ministers are setting an example for the future, a future in which they will also not be able to shoulder responsibility, a future that will continue to be established without regard to moral standards, despite the wonderful promises of responsibility and trust. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So, in spite of obvious violations... Prime Minister? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u12	The President asks senators to watch their deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u13	Mr. President. We have a valid code. Hv. A senator may want that code to be different, but it is in force. It is in the current government code that each minister is responsible for being followed and that the Ministry of the Presidency is for counseling. But the responsibility rests with each individual minister. There are no laws in the current moral code. What I did tore up in my answer is that not necessarily a law against violations of ethics, at least not if we listen to what the ethicists have been saying about these matters, that the code of ethics is primarily a standard of conversation that we have and put ourselves to talk about. That discussion is ongoing, i.e. for a review of the government's ethics, and it may not be wrong for the General to wonder if it would be necessary to reconsider the rules and rules of the application of members of Congress. But as long as there is a moral code, it is important that we act in accordance with the rules that are valid at any given time, although it is reasonable for me to believe that they will be revised and then changed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u14	Mr. President. The people do not have much confidence in the entire Assembly, and this is sadly so. It's our job here to make things right, but in this regard, I'd like to point out one thing. The Superintendent for last election says, on permission of the President: ▪ An application wants to start a new hospital in a better place. The hospital's future is not on Ring Road. ... You need to be on time to consider that a new hospital will be built in a new location... Then, in May 2016, the head of the Annexe Party was asked, "What is his attitude toward the construction of a new land hospital? " He answered by permission of the president: It is highly considered to build a new land hospital elsewhere, e.g. at film positions.How many times do you want to go? In October 2016, the Special Assembly was preaching to press conferences, the meeting was held right at Vifils Places. The head of the party, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, says, with permission of the president: A ring road is a bad place. We find it wise to start an independent assessment, including the following: with foreign experts to see if a new hospital cannot be built in a new place, a better place, faster and better than the current plans. We simply think it's wise. A journalist asks, with the permission of a president: (For fully formatted text, see publication) The head of the forward party responds, by permission of the President: To establish this independent group. A year later, the request was made and settled in the government, writing a government contract to build a new hospital on the Ring Way, and passing on a change to the budget to set up an independent assessment of the construction of a new Land Hospital in a new location. I'd like to ask the highest. The secretary of transportation and the chairman of the Refugee Party: Does he think that the way he and his party have held this matter is designed to build confidence in politics?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u15	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate for an interesting query, though not in my field of practice as a professional minister. This is a matter that has long been discussed in the community, was in the pits. All four last governments have worked to repair the situation at Ring Road, build a hospital hotel and a treatment core that is to begin working now and has been in preparation for a long time. At the same time, many have had doubts about the most reasonable location of a so - called national hospital, a new hospital where everything was in one place, on Ring Way. That's why I've been with the advance team and I've been here a long time. That's why we've talked about it, and why. A senator quoted my words, the need for timely reassignment to a hospital. A few years ago, it was estimated that the hospital could cover the same place for new ones to be built. Today, the trend has become so different from that of many abroad, it is recycled every 20 to 25 years. Therefore, it is wise to start a new hospital in time. We've talked about it in our group, and I'm going to take it up with a health minister if it's not wise to consider in this ideal period where such structure should occur. This is totally in harmony with the policy of the forward party over the last few years, but we have not entirely determined whether to abandon all of these projects. And again I remind you that we too were in the government under the president of another president and another prime minister, where the decision was made to build a sick hotel and a treatment core and to continue the improvements on Ring Way, even though they were at the same time talking about other structures. [[Foreground on: No.]] [[Foreground: Confusion.]] At times, we fishermen were having trouble explaining what we were talking about when both were supposed to build up on the Ringtrack and at the same time build a new hospital in a different place, a policy of the advance party, and that is my policy. [[The president calls.]] [[Foreground: Confusion.]] I'll stand by her. This adds confidence in politics, no matter what. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u16	Mr. President. That was an interesting answer. I have to ask the highest. With a new hospital, a new national hospital, in a new place, a secretary of transportation, why did he vote against my fiscal proposal to set up a team for a local selection analysis, as he rightly said at the press conference I quoted. Then he goes on to have a government team that's fallen from building the National Hospital in a new place, so I don't quite understand that answer. At any rate, it would be good to get them to know why he voted against this proposal, but he still wants to take a look at it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u17	A respectable president. In his first inquiry, why? A senator explains what was about trust. And the way the public looked at our work at the council. One factor is that when people make big decisions, they try to make full peace with them. Making decisions about the construction of a new national hospital is a significant decision that has, unfortunately, been in the trenches for a very long time. I think it is important that such a decision prevails in a parapolitic way. Hv. This proposal was made by the senator as a change to the 2nd district. budgets without having taken any discussion here in the hall or in the council committees to see if this would be wise and how to do so. Why not do so at the next councils, take this discussion, find the wise way, and show the public that we know how to work together, thus building trust in one another and in the public at our work?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u18	A respectable president. Specific mental - health services are needed for individuals with developmental impairment. There is a great lack of mental status in the National Hospital to develop special skills for individuals with developmental impairment and difficult behavioural disorders. In general, there is no clear route of service, and the way they are handled is very lacking. It may be difficult to get psychiatrists in a room to care for these people, since they cannot be properly cared for without depositing them, and there is a special department that can provide them where possible. It may be difficult to make some changes without the presence of hospitalisation and unclear where the responsibility is. There is no need for a whole service. Despite the fact that this is a mental health issue, there are so many other factors involved in a department to treat individuals with developmental impairment. The individual must be looked at, in terms of both general health, behaviour, and emotional, in cooperation with the person living. Will HCPs follow up on the development and development of a specialised unit to be developed as an analysis, educational and follow-up in these individuals?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u19	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry and congratulates him on the Virgin speech. Hv. A senator specifically asks about mental - health services to individuals with developmental impairment. It is clear that this is a very sensitive group that is important to keep your eyes focused on. As far as I can remember, meeting this group in special ways is not a mental - health program. But I'm not quite sure what it is -- it looks like. A senator tells me that I'm right and that I'm right, so he assumes that I'm right. A senator has quite a knowledge of the seminary. But I take this indication seriously. In fact, mental - health services in general with those who tend to be peripheral for various other reasons are a special concern. I mention to form a mental - health service to a prisoner who has been, to say, " A special lack of better and clearer attention. ' But I'm taking this point. A senator is serious. As mentioned in my previous comments, I intend to give the council a special report in February on these matters. I expect that, and, of course, it would be best if it were. A senator would still be here in time, but I trust that at least. that he is very attentive to the debate on the council broadcast. Then I will take this point specifically into that report to the Generals and give this good tip to you.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u20	A respectable president. V.E.G. Minister of health, yes, if I recall correctly on May 31, 2017. Then a decision was made to start a committee to find out who the need was. It was also decided that there was a need for a specialized department for individuals with developmental impairment and poor behavioural disorders. It's a lawsuit that doesn't have a painter, however. These matters are not followed. The mental field of the Land Hospital is not prepared for this group of languages. We have a general reception unit that cannot care for these individuals. We need a special division for these individuals. I am glad that the health minister is doing so well and that the matter is being considered. I assume the check will be in mail after the weekend.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u21	A respectable president. Thank you. Again, for following this important matter at the council here. We assume that the mental - health program will be funded, i.e. that we follow it along in the financial program for the next five years, including the options we might have. A member in particular is calling for - they are listed in the program that he clearly knows better than is a good new health minister. He points out that a special plan is needed for this group. I agree that it needs to be done. I will continue this matter and keep it in particular - for the sake of speaking in particular due to the exchange of words resulting from the virgin speech of the vice - general who is to be taken in particular.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u22	President. News is now being received that SOUTH plans to close her walking department in Akureyri. She has been operating since 1993 or for 25 years and has taken care of the territory from aagastose and east of the fjords. It has taken about 350 interviews a year, some 1,200 people taking group treatments, and it has been used for the prevention and other aspects of the area. I wanted to ask a minister of these matters, for the discussion we have today regarding addictive drugs, strong drugs, and such things, whether there is a vision of the future in these matters, and whether this service can be enhanced in the country. This is, in fact, the only service plan available in the country on these issues, the S.A. Board. Otherwise, the whole operation is moving to the southwest corner. We're now shutting down the situation and transporting the whole operation to Kjalarnes in the Viking. Walking department in Akureyri has even. Take care of the people after they come from Vogi or Vicík, then from home, and render them service in the area, and follow-up, and at least three or twelve months' prog. I think this is an incredibly important operation. From the year 2010 onward, the town of Akureyri has been infested with 5,666 million each year in this business, including about 17 million a year. In budgets, the U.S.A. is receiving 914 million health insurance. I want this place to be enjoyed only by the country. That's what we're talking about, um... 1.3% of the budget the organization is receiving today. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to see it spread a little bit, though it was just that it would go out into the country too.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u23	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. First of all, the activity being carried out in the U.S.A. is an extremely important and large social project that has been discussed, especially in these days when we are talking about overdose and misuse of drugs. With regard to the matter, of course. A senator asks, according to my ministry information, that this service has not been reached, too far apart, so the walking department is in itself fired for collection funds. On the other hand, it is so, like a cot. A senator points out that this is the FEW decision to set priorities. That's the nature of the situation according to the decision the organization can make in terms of the situation. That is why it is of utmost importance to look to the point of view. A senator mentions, i.e. That we have the national objective when talking about agreements about services that the State actually buys by partners or privates after incidents, that we have the viewpoint when making decisions about the composition of the ministry. Even more so, we need to look to the quality and success of the services we are buying for public money.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u24	Mr. President. Thanks for the answer. This is kind of a point that I think is very important about the government's service contracts, whether it is an ohf., an organization in town or other institutions that we share money through the budget, we go through this job in financial terms, that the state better define which service to provide for the financial resources it receives. I would've wanted to see it. A few years ago, three or four, it was in the budget. For example, 10 million should go on this march. It was stated. We often need to define more clearly. You think about it all the time on a budget board. We've been talking about the genders and the likes of things. It may be interesting to also look at a country - based budget. That might be very interesting. But I want to thank you for the answers, I think this is a very important matter, and we need to see if we can't reach some good conclusion on this subject. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u25	A respectable president. I think it's just a tip. I can sense why. A senator is bringing a certain material lunch, so to speak, from within the legal committee. Because this concern is common in many areas. It is that when a public service is made up so that a part of it is directly on our custody but in other things, so that we buy it from other sources, we need confidence to clearly define exactly what kind of service we want to buy, where to be its source, how it should be distributed around the land, and what quality or quality it needs to meet. Then, too, we need to be able to focus on some kind of success assessment of the ministry that is being discussed at one time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u26	President. I just wanted to come up and criticize it, I've done it before and will continue to do it, how late the program is for us senators. When you have a little time during the day to prepare for the next day, you can't do anything because I don't know what's going to happen tomorrow. I can't figure out why it can't be done. There is much work we do here, and it is important to be prepared for discussion. I want to be able to participate in discussions, and I can't work at night, like, I'm done doing it at night after I've put kids to sleep and stuff. I just want to have time to prepare so that I can have an informed share in the discussions that are going on at the council. I just think it would be a tip of respect for us senators to have the program prepared sooner. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u27	For this reason, the president wants to state that this is often valid criticism, but it is not very appropriate in this case, since the program of this meeting was scheduled on Friday. [[Up front.]] Yes, and the morning afternoon program and the rest of the week's program were introduced to meetings of council presidents and prime committees at noon, so... [[Not what Senate case...]] [[Not what...]] The president is not going to have a chat. This is the formal aspect of the case, the procedure was carried out in a completely traditional way, and the program of Tuesday, actually, because it was not a meeting on Monday, was already scheduled on Friday. [[I'm sorry.]] Yesterday, as noted, a council assembly date was not a traditional assembly meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u28	V.E.G. President. The President's meeting board is very fine. I see that everything in here has a nice, great, good catch. I would like to direct it to members of Congress who come up and criticize the President of the Generals, whoever it is at any given time, for not having the program prepared earlier to look into themselves only because when members of the council meet for how long they will speak in private matters, how long they will be able to set up a program in a much better and more efficient way than can now be when there is no such agreement or there is a conversation between members of Congress. I have recently attended a council and do not know exactly how the program was prepared for this week, but I saw the schedule yesterday and was therefore able to prepare me with a great catch, as you will see.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u29	Mr. President. The review of Halldóra Mogensen's review is self-recognized, as the president says, that the program as it is today was scheduled on Friday. There are just so many situations, but then there are also cases, such as these days, where I was not available at a meeting of the prime committee, which I was sitting around noon before tomorrow. Why don't we do it better? Wasn't that a motto? A senator and president now, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, in the campaign, will you do better? No? It was not on the right track with the Independence Party, but now it is, let's do it better. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] It's all in the right direction. Let's do this better, let's get the schedule sooner. That's what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Unnur Brá's Konráðsdóttir, whom I highly respect, gives us the basis for setting matters straight ahead of time not allowing us to give up the right to speak in any matter. No, we all know that this time and language tradition is in place because humans are competing for the program. We need to talk about the rest of the program, then we can solve it, but we can resolve the program and be better prepared by getting it ahead of time. Isn't that just natural? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u30	Mr. President. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir Halldóra, Mogensen. It is certainly possible to organize congregational duties better. Even if we have not decided what we will talk for a long time in each case, and even though I see the view that we should really consider the issues and look to the councils in the Norwegian states, it can be said when it comes to making a plan for the proposed bill of directorships. Such a plan can be drawn up. There is too much fog in just putting the terms of Congress and politics into place. We cannot prepare for that. But if there were any idea of what subjects to discuss and which stewards would be better at planning. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u31	A respectable president. I didn't expect this to be a complete discussion, but I welcome it because it's important and not only for us sitting at the council but also for the public and stakes in a town that often makes comments on time that are out of harmony with the Senate's court. I think it's an independent problem that we don't often look to because we're not there, at least not at all. I feel a little boring, and I say this with all due respect for a respectable president, that whenever this discussion comes up, it's gonna be a little down on the problem and pretend it's not a real problem, it's been discussed at some of the council meetings at some point. I've been sitting in that meeting and I know what it's like. There's a rough display of what a respectable president sees about. ... willbeapproached. However, this is not enough for a senator to prepare properly. That must be a fact. It must be a recognized problem, even if we can blame things like the practices of the smaller parts or what they are at one time. No matter what, this must be a problem we must recognize and face and unite in solving. I do not suggest that the freedom to achieve that goal be cut off from the speech of members of Congress. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u32	The president gives thanks to this helpful and helpful discussion of a better organization on the matter of Congress, and he will consider and consider it. However, I would like to mention that one reason why the matter of Congress and Congress would not be held tomorrow is that the council members received e - mail for a weekend when they were asked to specify the priorities of their council. And now look each one on his own, including the presidents of the House of Government, and consider whether they had already answered so that we could have established the matter before.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u33	Mr. President. Just before we begin our discussion, I'd like to say that the head of Congress here was sending all the information at the right time. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Mr. President. Social preparation is a neat term for the crime that takes place when people are robbed of their wages and rights. Sadly, such ugly things seem to be increasing considerably in this country and relate to the social background, especially in construction and tourism. The ineffable labor force is aimed at increasing the company's profits and improving their competitiveness. The victims are often afraid to express themselves, and they are the only ones who take a risk of the crime. The company can only pay off and move on. At worst, they're changing the social security number. I've talked to union inspectors about these matters. Their stories are striking. When I asked one of them how social subspecies appeared in his territory, he said: "Well, money can be stolen in many ways. Most employers, however, avoid showing respect for collective agreements; don't pay sick days, people don't get holidays or legal rests as they should, they call in the schedule so that watchloads are not paid and overtime is not paid, people are even said to do volunteer work. Enterprises, especially in agriculture and tourism, have increasingly been advertised for foreign volunteers to operate on food and housing. In this way, companies avoid paying contracts, including taxes and other obligations. The enterprise retains the employee's salary and thus strengthens its competitiveness toward other law - enforcement companies. In unspecified studies, students get support and trips, but they don't pay. This is not in harmony with Icelandic law. Often the staff do not want to express themselves, do not trust the authorities, and are afraid of their people in their own country. The person involved will take all the risks. He gets into trouble for participating in a black business and telling about it, has no insurance, and has lost his job. Economic growth in this country has been great since 2010 when we began straightening out the cow after the crash. This economic growth and well - being of the Icelanders would have been only for imported workers. It is intolerable that our well - being is partly based on stealing, where businesses import people and steal from them their wages. This cannot be taken lightly. We can't resist some of Iceland's economic growth through fraud and fraud. In the north, co-editors of the European Union, the European Union of the Union of the Union, and the employment movement in the North countries, have had social subsidies for discussion over the years. To us, there is no doubt that social subsidiary actually threatens itself on the basis of the North American model, which is exactly based on the survival security of all and the solidarity of rights and terms for all. Thus, in all the North countries, the SAMAK has arranged for the Danish idea center Sevea to cover a detailed report on the status of these countries. For a discussion in the Northern Council, there are a number of suggestions, one way or another. I mention, for example. proposals for the North countries to co-operate on these policies and for the EU and for the joint action of the Northern countries to strengthen and promote the labour movement in their struggle for the rights of employee. A healthy labour market is the foundation of good communities, and the fraud must be stopped here. In particular, the failure activity focuses on those who are the most vulnerable, young people, and foreign workers in the construction and tourism industry. Specific measures are needed. So I want to ask the highest. A minister of what actions are planned on the part of the government, first in order to counteract the violation of the activities in this country, secondly to ensure the function and natural competitiveness of an enterprise that respects collective agreements and laws and third, in order to promote work management and use laws against law and dress agreements and to follow them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u34	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir A Oddný Harðardóttir Daughter for discussing these important matters at the General Assembly. Of course, it is of utmost importance that the laws and regulations against the rights of labour market workers and the government do their part in caring for and promoting a healthy and just labour market. The questions we had. A senator entered into all contacts in one way or another and focuses on what is to be done to counteract the activities of an Icelandic labour market and prevent crime from being allowed to exist here. The first thing I want to say is that work is a bill for changing the staff outputs and other laws relating to labour markets, and this work is carried out in broad consultations, including in cooperation with unions. It is a final partnership, even to next week, to send it a bill for an open presentation. The purpose then is to be submitted to the General Assembly before postponement to propose a new matter expires. These changes in law include: aims to ensure a flow of information between employers which will monitor the labour market to prevent the development of fracture activities in this country. The main purpose of the change of law is to facilitate the implementation of legislation on the posting of employees. Our objective is to include: to provide the European Commission with a better perspective on the state of the domestic labour market in terms of foreign services, including staff property, number and position of foreign workers working in such companies. In particular, the aim of the proposed legislation is to strengthen the monitoring of the ideals of foreign workers who are temporarily sent to a foreign country in connection with the provision of national or staff services, so that pay and other terms are in accordance with the guidelines for the current labour agreements in the area where the work is being carried out. This is to prevent the participation of foreign workers in the labour market, including foreign companies and staff stores, from leading to social subsidies in this country. The bill is also aimed at promoting the equal competitiveness of an enterprise, such as the driving point. A senator came into his language earlier, working in a domestic labour market, whether domestic or foreign. It is important to ensure that an enterprise is unable to perform a crime, e.g. by breaking labour agreements, creating a more competitive position than an enterprise that respects the labour market law. At the same time, the work of a chain - responsibilities law is being carried out, but it is also an important step in ensuring out workers who are paid under collective contracts. As I told you before, these bills are in the final stages and the meaning is that they will be submitted before the deadline to submit a new Senate case expires. I hope the bills will be well treated at the council and will be completed at this spring council if possible, because this is a very serious matter. A senator came in. Of course, in addition to this, it is of utmost importance that we increase the workforce surveillance. It is important that there is wide - scale cooperation between governments, cooperation across institutions, and active involvement of the labour market partners. Active sources of information, prevention and education are an important element in preventing job violations. There, an important work is being done, and it is intended to play a significant role according to the law in these matters. A labour agency has already set up the information website, posting.is for foreign service employers who are temporarily arriving to the country and serving here. The opinion behind this is that it can provide information on the purchases and benefits of an Icelandic labour market, labour protection information, tax pay information, and other information. It can also provide information from various sources involved in monitoring, per capita, national records, insurance agencies, and other sources. The workforce is also developing new education networks in cooperation with the work world, tourism, commerce, and industry. The website is a part of the involvement of the employment agency in the Norwegian partnership on prevention of abuse and misuse of staff, including the employment trader. As I said before, work market surveillance requires a wide range of cooperation, and a workforce has a rich role in this. It is in cooperation with the labour market partners, but has recently been working in cooperation with the labour market partners to explain the separation between the management of the Agency under law and the supervision that can be considered normal for the partners of the labour market. A respectable president. I could have said much more, but I'm afraid there's no time. But I appreciate it. The adverb for taking up this case. This is of utmost importance, and I expect a good cooperation with it. A member of Parliament and other members of Parliament on matters to come to the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u35	Mr. President. I appreciate this discussion. It's very important. My conversations with the labor movement on this serious matter revealed that the problem is bigger and greater than we realize. It is important to try to discern the scope. In this regard, it is possible to see how many cases come to the table of unions, how many cases there are where workers are paid and chosen. I have information that one of the great unions has sent out demands for the underpaying of less than 1 billion dollars last year. There are 80 million a month, and about 90% of these demands were on the behalf of foreign workers in this country. It is generally believed that out of a ten - man group of workers who are paid and elected, there are only two or three who take the matter further. If all those who are loaded would sue for themselves, the sum of this one particular union would not be $1 billion a year, but 5 billion. That's a substantial amount, and I'll tell you that if you can load workers around such large amounts of money, there's something wrong with the surveillance system here in the country. They're all competitive. It is intolerable for those who work hard to be honest. This matter needs immediate attention, tops. Social Affairs minister, and if there's a will, it's possible. The law of guilt is vital, so that those who find out how to break the workers are guilty. There are always criminals in this sector who engage in social security and threats to workers. It must be taken. The plant must be responsible for sub-union, and unions need more extensive sources of information. V.E.G. Minister of Social Affairs. It doesn't mean to drag a committee and then another committee. It's time for action. V.E.G. Minister has plenty of staff around him, including two helpers who earn a fine salary. There's a lot at stake for all these hardworking foreign workers here, and we need them. There is also much at stake for the state funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u36	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? 6th. The district of Odin new G. Hardydóttir for bringing up this important matter. I assure you, all of us here agree that we do not want to be betraying people in a job market, that laws and agreements are not being respected. I think we all agree on that. Therefore, we are in this discussion, and it is important that we consider here at the Hall what steps we can take and what solutions we can see. If we use the time to talk about what is wrong, we will not necessarily use our time for the good. I like what's best. The bill, which will be requested this spring council, was reviewed by a minister. It will be exciting to see how the members of Congress will react, whether they will all be together to finish that matter and to improve, if something needs to be improved, on the Minister's bill on that matter. [[Up front.]] Let's act right away, huh? A member of the Central Party calls for it. Yeah, all right. I think the Minister is performing a bill. That question has been answered. I believe it is important that companies working in Iceland work in a simple environment. If you work in a simple environment, if the tax system is simple and everyone understands the rules of the game, it's harder to hide. We've all tried playing hide-and-seek with our children. It is difficult to hide when the room is simple with a few items in but more difficult when the environment is complicated. I think there's one point. We want the companies here to grow up and prosper, but we want them to work within the rules we have set and of course pay them under collective agreements and negotiate and to do good with their employees. We want the workforce to be healthy and to be paid fair pay for the amount of work each person earns. I look forward to listening to the solutions of the senators who are planning to get involved in the discussion. By pointing to solutions and focusing on how we will handle matters, we increase confidence in the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u37	President. Globalization has its advantages and flaws. Business competition has probably never been greater, and it has generally been considered for the benefit of consumers who have access to less expensive products. The dark side, however, is that companies are seeking to minimize the cost of production, often at the expense of people who, as a result of emergency, take up jobs for less pay in a worse situation. In addition, companies have been able to use employee rents and post workers to obtain less cheap workers than inadequate surveillance and little of the documented information on the posts of employees and possible social subsidies have hidden the problem. This needs fixing. Last year, the so-called social and equality minister submitted a prime bill at the General Assembly that discussed the rights and duties of the workers who work here in the country and was to set up regulations on the chain of responsibility of companies that employ such employees. The bill was designed to prevent social subsidies and related violations that have increased in the Icelandic labour market. It is our duty to ensure that foreign workers have the same rights as we, who have a lifetime experience in an Icelandic labour market. We cannot live in a system where some members of the community have a better rights protection than others. The bill suggested last year would have taken steps to correct this situation. I was disappointed, therefore, when I learned that the processing of the bill had been completely ignored, even though it contained widely available sources of the treatment and development of sensitive personal information. Although this is a serious legal struggle for a group of individuals who often do not have a word of caution, it is necessary that, at the same time, we do not make personal reviews. It's time for this bill to be submitted again. I rejoice, but I hope, at the same time, that there will be some consideration for the Persian protection views so that privacy for a foreign worker may not be overstepped unduly, just as Iceland had the right to enjoy. We must be able to ensure the safety of foreign workers in the workforce but not deal with their human rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u38	Mr. President. Thank you for your important discussion. This article discusses what I call a photon approach to primarily foreign but international people. This is not a new phenomenon. I had reasoned that it was 1998 for repairs in this town's apartment building that it was the way it was done, that the foreign workers working there were loaded. Another aspect of this matter is simply the professional skills that can often be questioned by the people in it and in this way. That's a worry. Now we see a lot of media examples of where a pot is broken. The extravagance we can call on is not only on salary and quiet rights but also on the social element. When it comes to wages and dress rights, it is so often used as an equal wage, an anointed tax used at all times each day, and it is, as one knows illegally. That's a very common method. The social programme includes it themselves, the equipment for the homes of these people. I know an example of a dozen people's place with as many rooms as one toilet and one shower. That's something I've heard. A section on payment for such things is also very common. This is common in construction and tourism, as is shown in the inquiry, but I think there are other areas, such as House cleaning. It is very important that the information and monitoring factor be enhanced because part of the solution lies there. I would like to encourage the government as well as the movement of hired people and professional drivers to roll with all the stones and expose the light - hungry practice, which is a disgrace to society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u39	A respectable president. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter, for this need of discussion. This is a very important subject as foreign citizens grow greatly in labour markets. Trends have been developing in recent years. The year 2017 was a new record year in this relationship. Never has there been more foreign workers in Iceland than there are now. There is evidence that they will still increase. These fractures are primarily found in the areas where they work, i.e. the underpaying job. But this is just as true of Icelandic employees. A large group of people cooperate with and care for the interests of working people. It is totally independent of the color on its passports. There is, of course, another reason for growing problems in this area is that there is a great change in the labour market as there is an increasing level of self-efficiency and that can be seen, e.g. to the bank sector where the work has decreased and will no doubt reduce further. People lose jobs they have done, and in some cases they do not have other jobs or just temporary jobs. This is far from a uniform group. They are people of all ages, with differences in background, education, and experience, people who have little job security and uncertain income. There is no doubt that local labour market subs and black occupations have increased as the number of foreign workers and women have increased. This is a vulnerable group, and I agree that this discussion is very needed and very timely.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u40	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? Harðardóttir For taking up this important matter and the highest. Similarly, a minister for his answers, although I must say, as it is, that I would like to see a little more power in this matter. This is an extremely important matter. A social commission at the labour market is something that I think we're all here agreeing that we have to fight it with all our means. It's completely unpleasant, and we don't want a job that's based on social subsidies. We do not want the work of an enterprise that is based on pigs on their employees, not paying them in the way of collective agreements or legal agreements and other rights. This is not merely a gross act of discrimination on the grounds of nationalities, of violations of collective agreements, of being undermined by all of us, as companies are trying to create competitive targets in a clear and illegal manner, by divulging the business of honest, healthy companies who want to cooperate with current agreements and laws at a time. It's completely unpleasant. All of us are expected to cooperate to eliminate this by any means necessary. That is why hearing the highest sound brings me a measure of disappointment. A minister declares that this is now a good bill of rights and responsibilities for foreign workers to have an open discussion procedure. Preparation for the case began in the highest order. Social Affairs Minister of the Eygló Harðardóttir. It happened before the council of my Ministers. Spring. Sadly, that was no way to win it. But the case is ready for the council, and I know it went back into consultation with the labour market partners. I don't see a basis for putting the matter right up here at the council so that they can come together to finish it before the end of our council so that it will not be as late as it already is. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u41	A respectable president. This is a need for debate. Harðardóttir Oddný's a case that you feel you can be above in our society and that you haven't talked enough, but the labor movement has been able to keep it up. This is one of the backwaters of the international industry and reminds us of the need for strong national legislation and for strong labor movement to thrive. Then there are the natural-specific exports of this international evil, which are not least described by persistent social security. There are people who go wrong over and over again, change their social security number, and continue unconcerned by the authorities. The labor movement has fought this and has tried to draw attention to this weakness. At present, we are looking up at a nonstop dispute between the Prima Air airline and the stewardess. It has been observed that the pilots of the airline have not attended four reconciliations, which are unreceptive. It doesn't have to be a lot of words, it's a question of competition with law-enforcement companies. The result is worse work, worse service, worse ideals for working people, and worse society.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u42	V.E.G. President. I'd like to thank you too. Harðardóttir I believe that when we talk and put things on the table, we get into the stitches on them, there's always more hope that we can find solutions to our community. It's an introduction to what's really good. Hv. A senator brought in a number of things, specifically mentioning the construction industry and the tourism, referring to the fragile groups of foreign workers and young people. Also, the senator came up with a discussion in the Northern Council, which I found very interesting. I have a seat with a bang. A senator and others sitting here in the hall. I'd like to emphasize that the Northern Council is a very important platform for us to use because our strength lies in the cohesion. The fact that this issue is on board there and will be there to work on a common policy, the workforce is greatly strengthened by the workforce here. So we need to look in that direction and discuss how we can apply ourselves in the Northern Council of these and other topics. V.E.G. A minister also entered many points in his own language. Like others, I'm glad the bills are on their way, and it would be good to hear from the highest level. Minister if there is any possibility that they will arrive sooner than expected. Like what? paritaprevir Konráðsdóttir Konsásdóttir's work introduced them is naturally harder to hide in a simple environment as well as better information flows and more and more. By further linking institutions and securing information flows, we will be able to achieve better results and identify individuals who truly want to go past the law. [[The president calls.]] I see my time is running out. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on Prima Air case, if the law takes over e.g. reviews this kind of registration and how to pass through it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Also, the social security network and chain responsibilities mentioned in a government contract, what's going on in this regard? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u43	The President reminds the senators to respect the time limit. That was almost 30 seconds ahead, it's now measured.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u44	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to say thank you for bringing this case into the councilroom. This is important and has been discussed in itself. It is intolerable that the nation's economic growth and growth in many sectors may be based on the fact that the pig is on the payroll and that this is a operating room. It is also disturbing for jobs, i.e. Professionals in individual sectors, such as agriculture, tourism, construction industry, prepare to avoid paying a decent salary or nonemployment agreements. It's natural that these parties will get away with this. It's a competitive situation. But there are two victims in this whole matter. First of all, the unfortunate people in Iceland, by the way we're going over here, the other victim is a government fund that's going to happen because the social security number and the problem with all these sectors don't pay due to the pay of the employees working for them. Now I know the highest. A minister has some experience in working abroad, and he knows these matters very well. He is no doubt as willing and eager as that of those who fail to succeed. But this is not just an opportunity for one minister. I'm glad the bills come out. I'd like to encourage the highest. Minister to speak to two of his fellow ministers in the government, and encourage them to join in, e.g. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Economic and Economic Ministers, to hire about 20 people for the IRS and Industrial Minister to finally appear at the Council with a social security network bill, which I remember has been prepared since 2013. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Some of the three ministers have struggled to bring this matter into the council. [[The president calls.]] I think it would be right to sound a solidarity in the government, and men would get themselves dressed in a dress and must muster up courage for one another to correct these matters. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u45	This game is open for what it is. paritaprevir Þorstein's Þorsteinn, Sæmundsson, who reached 30 seconds. The length was 27 seconds earlier, so it's getting bigger, so it's a question, Is there some kind of microchip action that the president has to take? I don't know if there's any trap shutting in that chair, but we'll see if there's something not handled on that committee. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u46	Mr. President. Social market subs. Thank you. paritaprevir It's a new Harðardóttir daughter for bringing this to our attention and setting up this matter. There's a lot of work to do. However, this is where salary interests and the interests of professional drivers are shared, at least by those who want to practice and do business honestly. Hv. paritaprevir Sæmundsson spoke of victims as being two, one employee, the hired man who was betrayed for the right price, and the state fund. I say there are three. Because a victim is also one who engages in honest business, the farmer, the contractor, etc. I agree with what. A saying that a healthy workforce is essential to a good society. But I'm going to take a little deeper into the years and argue that a healthy labour market, which is followed by law and order, is essential for us to build sustainable economic growth here. Because subspecies like tax evasion, including The ones that social security users do by stealing tax, undermine future honest business are our only way to improve our lifestyle. I think it's very important that we keep this in mind. It will and will always be a special task to observe that the rules are followed. It doesn't matter whether tax and tax costs are involved or when contracting agreements, laws and regulations is valid. [[The president calls.]] They're supposed to make sure that after the plays, everyone sits at the same table.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u47	Mr. President. First, I'd like to thank you for starting an important discussion about social subsidies in a labour market that could be said to be the dark side of our workforce at this time. In any case, if I had to offer a few suggestions after considering the regulations of the Labour Board, I would at least suggest that regular visits by the Work Board would be intensified and repeatedly and more frequently made by surprise visits to the workplace to see if everything is OK with at least hardware, method of loyalty, and safety at work. So I think there's a reason to check to see if it's 82nd. The same law was revised. Another factor that I would like to consider, as we are talking about social preparation is that I also want to balance it with the general way in which foreign workers are treated at work and how they can be severely abused at their workplace without knowing where to look. Therefore, I feel that I have reason to reconsider the 38th paragraph. the legal management, the method of loyalty and security at work, to see if there is any basis for altering their joint articles on harassment, sexual harassment, sexual harassment, and violence at work. As we saw, women of a foreign background are exposed to extreme violence at work and do not seem to know where to look. Mr. President. At the end, I'd like to mention the dark side of the shadow side of Icelandic employment, and it's a human hall, a farm hall. I remind you that there is no plan for human repercussion. I'm the highest. Minister of Social Affairs to collaborate with the Minister of Justice the expression "227th. gr. a general legal law on the employment room for a general opinion and review, since it is too widely considered and not working toward its goals. Similarly, we need to consider more closely the institutions responsible for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u48	Mr. President. I like to like others to thank the advocate of speech for the needs of the discussion. Changes in labour markets and economic circumstances have led to an increase in the percentage of foreign workers in the Icelandic labour market, as well as from foreign companies that temporarily send workers to serve. Last year there were more than 24 of you. Foreign workers here at work markets and have never been more than that. Visitors and construction companies have been discussed, but this is much more relevant, whether by cleaning up or by small companies. Of course, it is important, as it has been repeated, that social subsidies are not allowed to exist. It does not make governments alone, but it requires that they and the work force workforce work together. It's one of the things I need to make laws about chain responsibility. There is one way to ensure that people have a salary, and that applies both to domestic and foreign businesses, as the left green have actually emphasized throughout the ages. One thing is done, we must not forget it, even if it is always right. The labour oce has set up information websites for foreign service employers so that they can, in one place, get the necessary information before sending their workers to the country temporarily to provide services. The lake also has a new educational network in cooperation with employers, including workers. You can find a checklist in order for employers to choose a problem when it comes to subcating. And as much as they can appreciate the risk of hidden employment trades and other workwrecks, but I would like to agree with them. paritaprevir Sólrhi Sunna Ævarsdóttir in terms of the work hall earlier. The work programme has also provided educational instruction and guidance regarding harassment, sexual harassment, and sexual harassment and violence in the workplace, which need to be closely followed, as the examples show, and should be done even more. I want to direct it to the minister, because I think it's part of making the environment better, making an effort to assess the education of foreign workers so that the human resources will be fully useful. It would be possible to adopt the Ministerial Conference on Equal Opportunities, as has been done regarding the level of pay and sexual harassment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u49	A respectable president. I have a feeling that when the good stuff is so much as it is right now, it's a bit of a mess in society, that this kind of thing will be forgotten. They put them behind themselves and just want to move straight ahead. Then there will be offenses. Social subsidies and black jobs are just two sides of the same coin as those affected by these offenses are more often than foreign workers and young Icelanders, who are often taking their first steps in a workforce. They call for solutions, asking, "What can we do? " Many have referred to the institutions that are to be monitored, the institutions most likely to follow up on this, such as the Labour Office, the Work Programme, the IPC - all of which are now linked, and people are aware of this during their patrols. Of course, it is important that the State is behind these institutions. For example, I have named the police, that the state does not greatly reduce its operations. Policemen, as I have said in this chair, have not increased at all in the past ten years, have slightly reduced their numbers. Also, research is involved. They see who we have seen in recent years that as the population increases, the number of foreign workers is increasing, the number of foreign tourists is increasing, the number of people we have seen in recent years, the number of people who, on the basis of these figures, have not been able to investigate ever more, more complex, and more difficult. I say, the government needs to get on its feet if these matters can be handled.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u50	Mr. President. I would like to use my second talk on this subject to continue encouraging the highest. Minister for good work in this regard. This is one of the most serious problems the labour market faces this year. It's a completely anticipated problem, it's been a long time since this was discussed, so it's absolutely important that the aforementioned bill come as soon as possible to the council for discussion. I think it's very important for the council to have a good time to review it, look up comments, etc. The bill has been spending a lot of time in preparation, and I don't think bringing it in here is a problem. But there are other factors to look at. Careful monitoring is needed. The government tax manager complains about the lack of funds to supervise which we know is working very well. The so - called business visits made by the governor have worked very well in this context. Last year there was an increase in funding for both work and employment agencies to manage this, as well. It is important to continue building that monitoring factor. We're a people growing old. We know that we remember to a greater extent than ever before in foreign workers. That is why it is of utmost importance that we do well with all the tools and rights of this group, that people who come to work will experience themselves as equal to all members of society. This is extremely important, but we also have to face the fact that one of the biggest covariates in the labour market is the result. We pay people of a foreign background much less than others in the labour market. Not only are people paid under collective contracts, we're not paying this group one striped rate. [[The president calls.]] It is of utmost importance to teach people about their rights, to consider in all places that people who come to work, which is extremely important to Icelandic society, experience full, equal rights in all places.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u51	Mr. President. Thank you. Parliaments for participating in this discussion and at the highest level. Minister for the answers. I'm glad to be able to bring back the bills, hopefully better accomplished, into the council that has been involved in the administration of three governments. From the foregoing discussion, transnational communities are doing their work in a rapid and effective fashion. I also want to encourage the highest. Minister to action, as others do. Councilmen in the discussion, and encourage him to go to church within the government because these matters are not only his department. Mr. President. Fortunately, companies follow collective agreements and respect laws and rules, but the number of cheats is much more common. Public organisations must be able to handle the issues and use the sources they still have to work with unrecognizable enterprises. The company itself is not taking much risk. They're paid if they can get away, then they can go on just like that. I was, for example. Said the story of a company with 30 employees. Two workers came forward and complained that collective agreements were not respected. The response was that the company paid what was lacking and then drove them, but it continued to steal from the other 28. Social subheading is a crime that requires a clear response on the part of the government. Governments and institutions, industry, and unions have to accept this, in fact. It is a crime against people, both financial and social, and the response should be in harmony with it. Betrayal and fraud of a labour market are in complete opposition to the Norwegian model and the Norwegian welfare based on trust, respect, cooperation, equality, and equality. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u52	A respectable president. I want to thank you for the talk that's been really good. I'd like to come in on a few things. These bills are scheduled for the council in almost weeks. The person here said they'd have a short review, we assume. Just because of comments that even came in. ... pastthewrong. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, who is responsible for personal protection and other changes have been made by the bills. We thought it would be right for us to put them for a week's notice, and then they come to the council, and hopefully we'll be able to do so in the weeks ahead. The bills take care of what I came in on that property. They also take on the chain of responsibilities and other factors, as I did in my history. So it's extremely important, and I agree with members of Congress who have expressed themselves about it, that these matters will come as soon as possible into the council. That's all there is to it. However, the primary warnings have changed because governments have cooperated with them. to the labour market members, labor unions, and unions on changing issues. We have taken into account the viewpoints presented there. We thought it was right for the bills to enter the council. I would also like to agree with the ones mentioned here on the importance of increasing the surveillance of this class. Iceland has been falling back on this, not because we've been reducing funding, but because, according to the number of foreign workers in the labour market, the share we spend in monitoring, both to the workforce, to the workforce, to the head of the tax and other bodies, has been reducing. In this regard, I would like to say, in order to emphasize the importance and to agree with those who have spoken, that in 2014, one employee rent was registered in Iceland. In 2017, the number is 36. In 2017 there are 12.4% of the workers in the labor market of foreign citizens but were 8.2% in 2012. [[The president calls.]] Of course, this increase calls for a change in law and an increase in funding for this group of paintings. [[The president calls.]] The person standing here agrees with all members of the council who have made such comments today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u53	A respectable president. I recommend here for a bill to correct the change in the law of the Association, the transport administration agency. This is suggested on the website of the Agency annexes and codes on the European Environment Agency international conventions, as well as on distribution guidelines published by the International Agency. Iceland is a party of 33 contracts written at the World Seals Agency. The extent of these contracts is enormous and was estimated at the time that it was 6,400 pages. This was not included in the text of other bacteria, such as inferred and distributed letters. In general, international agreements are written over long periods of time and at special conferences. A major element of the agreements has been developed in the seas, and these put into special manufacturing projects that support the negotiations. In other words, international agreements include targets and principles as well as the related agreements. The technical exports are then found in tundra and the code. This is similar to what is known here in the country, but the law allows ministers to implement their contents in regulations. The reason is that the environment of sailing is global, and changes are rapid. It is more simple to change the Annexes and code than international agreements. This can lead to a faster response to technologies and new circumstances, but this can lead to very rapid changes. The previous assessment of the International Chemistry Agency is held in this country on how the Icelandic government has adopted and carried out the terms of certain agreements. In connection with this assessment, the Ministry and Transport Service examined how these additional initiatives were being published. It was discovered that their release is very lacking, and most of them have not been translated and published. The reason is simple, it is the smallest member of the Icelandic government, the vast scope of the product of fermentation and display rules that are not suitable for such technical text that is constantly changing. Thus, a new thought is needed in these matters. Is this the bill of her product? So the bill says that there is a simpler way of publishing than that expected in the Government News and the Law Code. As previously noted, the magnitude of these bacteria is extensive. It would be difficult and costly to translate them before publication. In addition, it is very technical, with regard to a distinct group of specialized men. There is a need for a specific legal authority to publish such instructions in a foreign language. The work of the bill was covered in detail according to the constitution of the Constitution, and it was concluded that its contents were in accordance with it. They carefully followed the views as a government law and the Law paper based on only their electronic publication. A respectable president. I have now explained the key elements of this bill. I suggest that the bill will be followed by this discussion referred to at the highest level. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u54	A respectable president. I'm a little interested in chapter 4 of this report, on the basis of constitution and international commitments. What interests me is that the whole arrangement is actually being changed by the law of the law on the law of the Association lab. I wondered, " Is the general legal issue of general law exposure not generally within the government law and the Lawbook? ' Second, in the second part of the system's security section, the problem with information technology is that the system can live in order that it can permanently store data and prescribe them to users on an indefinite future. We are naturally familiar with such risks of changing websites, i.e. that a third party can change the contents of the web page. This is likely to indicate the security of the system that it is unchangeable in the way it is required of law. How unfortunate it would be if the contents of the Web sites could be changed, which would be considered as a law change, regardless of whether this would have to do with the exact law and the case. I'm like I said before, I'm particularly worried about it. We're talking in general about changing the way we print laws in the law about the U.S. O.A., but not on the right ground, maybe making releases in the Lawbook, and the Management News simpler if that's the problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u55	Mr. President. Of course, this is an interesting subject that the senator brings that is of interest. Work on this bill, just in that section of yours. A senator refers to a guarantee that the public will have access to information. At the time, the Lawgiver was authorized to publish electronically only in 2002, 81% of the people had access to computers, and 77% had computer access to computers via Internet connections, but 98.2% of the people with Internet users and 96.5% had access to the Internet. We are also always trying to improve the access of a communication program, so we certainly know this generation gap in that use. The key elements of the publication and the translation of the contract are found in the King James Version. It is these appendixes and code as a very specific group, one of which can be sure to have this access through network connections and such because it operates in that environment. According to the Ministry, it is certain that the information is available on the other hand to the public, while 100% ensures that those working in this environment have access and are accustomed to being in this environment in English.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u56	A respectable president. I'm less concerned about the bioavailability as such. I'm more concerned about the double process, i.e. Not even biphasic, i.e. the access to law in two locations. In effect, the law is being published in one place, in which it is published in two places, and it can cause a certain problem that is aimed at trying to simplify it. The publication of the Law in the Law Code and Information may be difficult for these types of laws, but in the same way, it will also be complicated to publish them in some other place that may not be as beneficial to the rights of the users as it is in interesting text of evolution of just human legal history, etc. who transfer the law to this system now because we have an electronic version of the Government News and a Law Code. I'm saying that it's about half an electronic display because there's no computer available on that data. Perhaps it would be a step we could take rather to make this computer receiver, saying the template on Government News and Lawbook. If so, it would be much easier to distribute laws to those in particular, they can get updates and messages much easier when the laws they observe change. The fact that it's simple in this process, I'm not buying it exactly. I'm going to hear a better explanation for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u57	A respectable president. You're right next door. A senator, we know today that the law is published in the Management News, but it is also authorized in many laws that regulations, especially those directed at a particular group, are published on the website of the relevant institutions or advisers. It's not about this bill, we're primarily dealing with this appendix and code that in its nature takes a much greater change than the basic agreement they're making. As a result, the contract is included in what is mainly a response to technical technologies and some of these things that arise. It would seem, in our opinion, that constant translating and dispensing of them would be unsettled. Therefore, this route is chosen. But I guess I'll give you a heads-up. A candidate will visit the Committee and the experts in this field will be able to discuss the matter in detail and get the answers you will need.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u58	A respectable president. This is where I recommend a bill to correct a ship surveillance law. The bill suggests that the Agency can lay administrative guiltys upon those who violate the regulations of the law and the regulations of the authorities in accordance with them. The aim of a law to monitor ships is to secure the safety of Icelandic ships, their crews and passengers, and to provide protection against pollution on ships. For law to achieve its purpose, it is generally thought that it would require a violation of its laws. The law to monitor ships is largely assumed to be a crime against the law to be reported to the police. Only one form of administrative law is found, it is a ban that the nature of a case may be a very heavy resource for the development and seamen. It is generally considered more efficient and costly measures for all members to place on government fines than charges against police investigation and from there to the courts under such circumstances. The cost of the offender, e.g. ... becauseof attorneys'aid, mostly less in the case of administrative legislation. The bill suggests that governmental fines can be placed on individuals as well as on lawmakers. The reason that individuals can be fined is the particular nature of the Sea Court, where the responsibility of the captains and other directors is very high. This is largely because of the great distance between ship and fishing, where the managers of a ship must be entrusted with what is needed as well as the crew. The implementation of the bill was guided by a report on the Court's Penitentiary on Economic Crimes, in which there is a detailed review of requirements to be made for government guilty as well as examples of other laws, such as contracts for registered driving equipment, insurance and chemical law. A respectable president. I have explained the basics of this bill. I suggest that this discussion be followed. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u59	A respectable president. Thank you. I have one question about this case because there was again a slight change in the arrangement. Usually this is the case with the police, who handle certain laws and procedures on how they treat matters and the rights of offenders. The Agency depends on a whole different process. It is reasonable to expect that the Agency will need to take in knowledge to address these issues. Then I wondered, " Will the results be any simpler when everything is looked at when the Agency is in the process that would otherwise be followed by the police? ' Is it any more practical to do so in a same room than in the police, who have expertise in ensuring the rights of those who are being discussed? It is said that it is authorized to lay government guilt on individuals. Then I'd ask if there's any precedent in the greater context. Finally, I'd like to mention that this is a system of government, according to Article 19. the management of ships with respect to information requirements. I think it's a little ironic with regard to other matters, but let it stand here as a comment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u60	A respectable president. I think I'm worried. The senator is not entitled to justice at all, i.e. Because there is no expertise, the need for it elsewhere, and therefore it will always be so vast. Whether this is a violation is based on expertise found in the Grouproom today is determined. The police, who are very burdensome for minor offenses, need to be reported. Thus, the way that governments can handle the matter is less difficult for those who may be guilty of wrongdoing. Regarding the ideas here as to whether there are any precedents, it is also necessary to consider that the ship's responsibilities are very high, so that this objective responsibility is until then. The example would be primarily related to the possibility of a similar offense or a alleged offense.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u61	A respectable president. Here's where I recommend a bill to legalize the law of law No. 28/2017, about passenger transport and cargo transport in the country. Tracks on passenger transport and cargo transport, No. 28/2017, last May 16, 2017, was approved at the General Assembly, and came into effect on June 1 after a very thorough and detailed discussion at the council. Following the implementation of the law, there have been indications from the Association and police sources that certain matters needed to be stated in the law. The purpose of this bill is to respond to these comments. 1st and 2nd. The bill is about the obligation to have a specific license. According to law No. 28/2017, which is called a commercial passenger transport, is a license-licented passenger vehicle and a ticket to drive passengers against a fee without permission. When carrying out the law after their implementation, it has been found that in the light of the principle of the clarity of penalties, it is necessary to sharpen the permits in the regulations that include operating permits for special cars and travel practices. To meet this goal, see paragraphs 1 and 2. This bill puts together a change in wording between 9 and 10. The law. In the 9th. The law as they are today even says. that Transporters are granted permission to operate specialised vehicles and at sector 10. says that a boarding room is permitted to give special permission for passenger transport in travel service. The law and law 4 and 5 is explained by a report of the 30.g. of fines, the purpose of this decision was to make a permit for those who practice the kind of passenger transport that the law takes into account. However, police surveillance has shown that the wording of these articles can cause a misunderstanding as to whether passengers who intend to move in the sense of the above law are really obliged to have permission, according to Article 9 and 10. The law in which the law can be understood as a reference law for the CA, without the fact that it contains a series of signals on the operator, which they can obtain fines for failing to fulfill. Section 3. The bill for a travel-receiver license. According to 1st mg. 13th par. track No. 28/2017 Member States must pay the dues for permission and other certicates and organisations. Is in the law to find a list of the licenses to be paid. The 10th paragraph. as previously stated, travel permit is a law of law. The decision was added to a bill to the law by a change in the Constitutional treatment of the bill at the last council. You should take advantage of this opportunity and sharpen it in 1st. 13th par. to pay a price to the Transportation Agency for travel service licenses as per Article 10. Clearly, all rights were required under the law, and it was not intended to allow travel. Hence, it is appropriate to correct and be expected to do so in Article 3. The bill. It is proper to state that from the time of validation of the law to this day, the Agency has a new general payment for the 6th arm of 1 mg. 13th par. to pay, which is permitted to pay for proof of a different kind than that listed in the regulations and administrations. A respectable president. Now, I have finished speaking about the subject of the bill and suggest that it be referred to. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u62	President. I recommend a synopsis proposal for an independent professional local selection for a new national hospital. With me are all members of the Central Party, and Bergþór Páll, Birgnarsson, Gunnar Sigurður Sveinsson, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, Jónsson, and Sæmundsson. The interpretation proposal is to hide a health minister performing an independent professional local analysis for a new national hospital. The secretary consults foreign organisations as well as national professionals who will be appointed to review the potential location, including with regard to financial, quality, transport, traffic and safety. The results of this analysis will be published in an accessible way. Ministers report the results to the General Report no later than May 2018. During 2001●2008, Icelandic and foreign experts wrote a number of opinions, and most of them concluded that a new national hospital should be built from scratch in a new location. However, the experts who wrote felt that if a new hospital could not be built from scratch in a new location, it would be best to build at the hospital in Fos Coord or the old Land Hospital on Ring Road. It was concluded that if it were not possible or willing to build a local hospital in a new place, then the Ring Way or Fos would be an option. The results of building at the National Hospital at the Ring Road were based on the main organization of Reykjavík, which is in force from 2001•2024, but all the foundations of the organization are smiling, none of the traffic and planning measures that are expected to take place in our time. The current selection appears to be based on an out - of - date organization. A report published by the University of Bifrost and the Labour Research Institute for the Organization of Employment in November 2015 found that the Ring Road was not suitable for the future and that economic benefits of another location were significant. The report on a better hospital in June 2015 said that the cost of building and operating a new national hospital differs according to location. The organization compared three places. First, building an old building on the Ring Road, building a building at Fos Soil, and building a new hospital from base to base, a new place closer to the home of the capital area, and a major traffic area. KPMG crossed the calculations, examined the criteria and confirmed the calculations based on the given criteria. The comparison showed that it was more practical to build in Fos Cove than it was on Ring Way, and it was even more practical to build a new national hospital from scratch. Such factors, such as ambulances and helicopters, are also turned toward a good local analysis. It follows that the cost is lower as far as the national hospital goes, and in this regard urban development and population development need to be examined, and in the long run. You need to see how the platforms affect the building and how you travel from place to place. The primary objective of this recommendation is to perform an independent professional local analysis. A professional local selection analysis is required to see where the most practical and the best way to build is to develop. This requires independent professionals, such as planning specialists, hospital transporters, helicopterrs, engineers, business experts, traffic experts, and health professionals. People would be assigned to evaluate possible sites based on economic, quality and transport, traffic and safety. The results would have to be published freely. I hope that the proposal can produce a wide - scale convergence in the council as well as in the community. It is vital to make wise decisions based on new information and consistent with the developments that have taken place, for example. on organizational matters. It also provides additional safety and quality, and eventually clears a vision of a better hospital in the best place. I'd like the bill to go to the top. At the end of the discussion, the welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u63	A respectable president. Thank you. A member of the council concluded the local selection proposal for a new national hospital for history. I'd like to talk to her about two questions. What would a local selection analysis have been conducted at this time until the previous hoc analyses that have been re-evaluated repeatedly? Is it true that while local analysis would be performed, the current procedure will be slow? If so, where else to begin should it be stopped? Is it the hospital, the treatment core, parking lot, technical and office houses, physical reforms, or anything else?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u64	President. The standardised analysis at this time point was superior to the local selection analysis performed 16 years ago that the criteria have changed. I understand that there is no traffic system available today. Then we can add that if a person is present with a new local selection analysis, there will be other benefits, hopefully, since we may not always give ourselves in advance to the end of the Ring Road. I really like going to other places. But to be intelligent in my head, I find it normal to take everything into consideration. According to this, we must assume that all benefits will be equal in the local selection analysis. That's why she needs to be professional. About the second question, where we're going to slow down. I don't know any better than it's slowing itself down. I don't think the hospital's made any use of it. Recent reports tell us that a positronic period will be delayed. But I don't really want to say that we should slow down something. We might be alone in building a treatment core in a new location. Takes 18 months in an organization and the rest can be started.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u65	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. I understood that right from what I heard. A senator proposes that the treatment core, scheduled to begin this year, will not be rejected, but will look to another location? I would like to reiterate the first question about whether there is anything else that is intended for the senator to stop, operate, design, or so on. When does a vehicle think it's time to look at the location of another hospital, those hospitals that have to take over after 15 to 30 years possibly? [[Up front.]] - It will always be necessary, since the population is growing rapidly and technology is moving rapidly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u66	President. I can picture waiting a few months to do things right then. I want to build a new treatment core in a new location. I find it wonderful to hear here the claim that the people of the country are moving rapidly, so that I witness to what they say. Senator. That's right, but at the same time, it wants to go. A senator maintains the thought that Ring Lane is the best option. I just can't get it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u67	A respectable president. In order to be completely clear from the start, the current health - care system does not tolerate structure. We've had to wait for the construction for 20 years. Therefore, the design of the new plans has not been established. Rather, it is always delayed, new, and new. We are now living in a state of demolition, mold, and ruined houses, etc. Let us be absolutely clear that our current health - care system cannot tolerate structure. However, it is all that says that the current schedule will not produce the results when it was made. When building is completed, the hospital will immediately be out - of - date. We need to look for an expansion right away. And there's not much more room on Ring Road. This interpretation proposal is very timely, but earlier it would have been: to perform a highly professional, independent standard analysis. That's in perfect harmony with Pirata's policy. We definitely support her. It should not be as complicated as it has been in the past two decades to see what the need is for health - care systems, and not only in the capital area but also in many lands where the pressures of health care are lifted here, transportation, and so on, regarding health care for the local population. So I strongly urge people to consider this immediately. This does not necessarily mean that there is a need to postpone anything that is already being done because, as I said before, the health system has no tolerance to wait. But the sooner we go to new analysis and get a new opinion, the less money gets lost, the lower the cost of the current structure. That's the key. We're like spending money on something that's very quick to degenerate. As a result, there has been no consideration for the structure of the health system in the past two decades, despite the opinion that it should be built there or there. At first it was said, as indicated by the synopsis proposal, that if it could not be built anywhere but in Fos Coordinates and by Ring Road, it should be in Fos Cove. After that, according to the information we have received, a new report was asked for the changes that the building had to be near downtown and university. Now, the distances aren't that big in Iceland, driving five minutes from Iceland's University of Medical Park now or driving 15 minutes to Grafarvog or Old age or something like that doesn't really matter at all. We are faced with the problem now that we are shoveling a lot of money in the building of a health system that is necessary but at the same time in the race to issue this precise project. So the sooner we start this, the better.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u68	A respectable president. I took a silent message because I have to admit that I stand a little on a street with a stand. A senator after his speech. It may be my fault, but I want to have a word about it. A senator to get this straight. I couldn't understand why. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear was different, so there was really no time to lose, that because of circumstances that a member of the body was doing well in the last few years and decades, there was really no time to lose by continuing to build up the health system. I listened to what I heard. An early discussion of some sort of continuation of performance reminds me of the experience of Árnadóttir Kolblönna of the Year's daughter. A senator mentioned. I still don't quite understand what the real core of this proposal is for Congress in terms of the structure that is already under way at the Ringway. That's why I don't understand why. A senator when he and the Council of Porta say that he and his party support the Parliamentary decree. I thought why. A senator is talking about, in effect, the continuation that would be even the next hospital, which I think is right by then. A senator who agrees completely with him. But fear hard. Not for what was expressed in the language of a senator. Is it true that a messenger and in the report on the construction of the Ringtrack that an agreement with this synonym will delay the necessary activities that we now have?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u69	A respectable president. No, I'm not worried about that, to be honest. This is about making a local selection analysis. It really doesn't have anything to do with anything, from my point of view, about whether and how other projects will be rushed or delayed or slowed down on them or whatever. A moving driver may answer that question better. I'm saying we need to start analysis. Really, all other factors are less important when it comes to looking at what this conclusion is all about. I'm not gonna guess what the movers intend to do with their current projects. As I have heard, they care very much about the health system themselves. After all, I am not worried that the result will not all of us have good health, health care, and all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u70	A respectable president. Hv. A senator says that he does not trust to guess what. Shiverers are ill by their motion. I agree with him that you are not supposed to try to guess what other people want. That is why it is good to listen to the transporters themselves, even to read the suggestions and articles that follow. It says, referred to a number of opinions that suggest that a new national hospital should be built from scratch in a new location by the president's permission: ▪ The situation of building at the National Hospital at the Ring Road was based on the main organization in Reykjavík, 20013/4,2024, but all of the organization's foundations are smiling, none of the traffic and planning measures that are expected to be in force in our time. Therefore, the current selection seems to be based on an out - of - date organization. The report later stated that it was even more practical to build a new national hospital from scratch to a new location, where it refers to a comparison made in the motion. That's why I don't understand why. A senator has to guess what the attitude of the movers is. I've been sitting there. A senator at the council Hall listened to many of the reason. Transporters, the fine people who are following the suggestion. It has not been on its stand for building up on Ring Road. I don't feel it any different, or I've misunderstood a lot, and I hope I will. I was corrected by some of the officials I know to be on the rosary, but a sincere desire is that the structure does not work there. So I find it hard to understand why. A senator. He wants the current structure on Ring Lane, but he still supports this proposal. I just can't get it to get along. One thing is to make an assessment of the nearest hospital, which would be a special proposal, but to support this suggestion to aim not to delay the development, which I think will know that the motion will do, I will not get to come together. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u71	A respectable president. I'll try to explain. This is an opportunity to build a new hospital in a new place. That window is close soon, i.e. This opportunity is lost to take immediate action to build a new hospital in a new location without starting certain projects scheduled for the Ring Road. I think that window is closed, but in the council resolution proposal, it is assumed that it may still be open, which may well be. It would probably be seen in the analysis whether or not it was suitable. That is where the difference in my attitude is as to whether there is a chance now to jump into a new place. Then building would not take place on the Ringway but elsewhere, and we would turn it over to the new location of the National Hospital. What I'm trying to say is that our chance is gonna slip through our fingers. I guess, and now I'm guessing, that we miss the opportunity, which would affect the report in the bill. Transporters may conclude so, and now I'm back to guess as far as they are concerned, that the window is not closed. That's the difference. I don't think he's the complicated, conquistador that it represents entirely. This is a natural diagnosis of local selection.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u72	A very impressive president. What we are discussing here is extremely urgent and, in fact, incomprehensible that this work has not been attacked much sooner. But there are much incomprehensible aspects of this great nation's situation of interest. In a number of ways, it gives evidence of what might be called a systematic disorientation, the total disorientation of the system to facts. Once men are on some level, they simply cannot get a reevaluation of their previous plans. This surprising issue is becoming increasingly strange, especially with statements from several different sources. Councilmen here today, and actually began in the inquiry class of Ministers with a clean reply of the highest. A minister of transportation, an alleged candidate for the advance party, who claimed that this was not such a big deal because it had to start building the nearest hospital after about 20 years. And then I hear other senators repeating it here. I guess that's the new line. When we were talking about the need for a new hospital, we were talking about the next hospital. Do what? Congress officials do not realize that if this was to be the case, if a new Hospital, a new national hospital, after 20 to 25 years, there is all the basis for this project? Because this project, exploits, and all the grounds, is based on the fact that it should be the National Hospital for a predictable future, for decades, even for 100 years. So now, if we're going to cow absolutely and say, "Then we'll just start building the next hospital as soon as we're done with this, then the last ground left for the Ring Road project has been destroyed. They were many gone, most gone before. Traffic don't you think? Long gone. There have been a number of tunnels, misdirected corners, a number of things to do in connection with this hospital with the rest of the city. What was hard enough if they had been in all those operations, it's impossible without them. Economic factors were largely blown into the wind. One particular requirement was the need to build the Land Hospital in this area to save the town downtown in Reykjavík. It was at the time when renting a job house in the middle of town and people spoke in the sense that the old city of Reykjavík was breaking down. A new land hospital and building on Ring Road was supposed to be some sort of rescue operation for the old town, so that some people might be able to perform something there. What's the situation in downtown Reykjavík now? The real estate programme is no bigger in Iceland. And, in fact, it has become a great problem. It also means that the reasons for the building that exists there are completely different. Under the present circumstances, this facility could be sold for tens of billions, and indeed the building rights as well, as demand and prices have developed, in a large way, by selling older buildings, many of which, of course, require considerable renovation. And speaking of it, since we're recognizable and how they've changed: many of the houses on Ring Road - and likely it was the main premise, at least for a time, that the houses already had to be used - are in the sense that they either have to strip them completely down, so that nothing remains but the concrete, or tear them down. Some of the houses are in the position that they need to be torn down, and it is likely that new ones will need to be built. The criteria for local living were to allow for continued use of these facilities. What have we discovered in the meantime? Reports have been made of extensive mold and moisture damages in many areas of the town area, and in many cases, very drastic measures have been taken. I mention, for example, Iceland Bank's house at the Churchland, an enormous house that was abandoned and is now empty because one floor of the house was found with moisture and mold damage. The same can be said of the University of Kópavogi, a full elementary school now to be torn up, that I understand because of the presence of shaving and mold damage. It's a famous story about the Power Department that was now one of the most expensive houses in the country when it wasn't built quite long ago. It may need to be torn down, at least in part. I can keep listing houses. Last time we heard of an insurance agency that's probably supposed to leave, I think it's being abandoned these days. But most remarkable of all, Mr. President, I know that a respectable president will have a sense of humor for this: the Department of Ministry of Department, which is making decisions about the future of patients at the Land Hospital, has been left empty. Why? There was a barber damage at the Ministry of Health. Possible mold. The workers and the minister insisted that they obtain temporary houses, ran away, and are still there. But one of the most famous dwellings in Iceland, for mold damage, barber damage, ants, and any kind of disturbance that can strike a house, is defined as the future dwelling place of the Land Hospital. Not only that but also the basic premise for building the hospital on the Ring Road that all the facilities that had been built in recent decades could be used. This monumental damage was to be a prerequisite for building up on the Ring Road while men are tearing up all the big buildings elsewhere if there is a slight mold. Anyone who wants to examine the facts of this case can be seen to see that it is all what foreigners call "moral business. " Nothing goes on in the argument of those who speak against reevaluating the location of a new national hospital. So, what do people do? People get caught in secret or even pure falsehood. It's the biggest hulk of all time. Minister of health, and I hear even a few things. The panel members of the Parliament, is that there was an agreement at the council proposal to build a new hospital on the Ring Road. We are to understand, then, that in the meantime, although it was discovered that it was absolutely hopeless, the council had agreed to build a new hospital on Ring Road and that it must be that way. But what was approved here at the council? Well, it wasn't that a new U.S. Landplace was built on Ring Road. On the contrary. It was tried to get an approved suggestion that a new Lands Hospital should be located on the Ring Road. This was done at the end of the council, attempting to force this proposal through a filamentist, threatening that the council would not be allowed to return if the matter was not ignored. It was a proposal from a senator of my stock. How did we react? Yes, we, at least, members of the Assembly of the Future Party then said: "No, we can't agree with a proposal for a new Hospital on the Circle Road because it's unwise in so many ways. Even if you're going to talk until summer, it's not going to be accepted. The result was compromise, the proposal was withdrawn. Correctly changed, there was not one word left of the old proposal, and instead a proposal for needed maintenance and structure was adopted - in the sense of the hospital hotel being worked on the Ring Way - but another kept open. All these reminders that there has been a resolution agreement on Land Hospital resolution are primarily a reminder that opposition to the construction of a new Land Hospital on Ring Road is not new. She has been there for many years, and we, members of the House of forwards, who once served as a prince's party, were ready to fight for this revision. Then they even come from that category now and refer to a report as then the highest. A health minister had this choice done. They seem to have completely forgotten the discussion of that report at theizers' conferences just two or three years ago, as it was pulled apart and used by experts to cross it. The conclusion, of course, was that this was a report designed solely for reaching a certain conclusion, should be a weapon in a particular battle, since the basis for which it was established. On the other hand, if you put into practice all the conditions that are natural to look at in the setting and preparation of this enormously important project, I am convinced that it will be totally crazy to carry on this project and that it can be done much faster, much better, and in a more practical way in a new place.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u73	President wants to point them out. In the United States alone, a member of Parliament is a member of the Parliament. Humor is not Icelandic, and besides, there are equipment for whether a president has a sense of humor.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u74	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I have to say, for my part, I'm not quite at the bottom of this matter. Pirata's policy is very clear, and we support the proposal on that basis. This is more about what it is like. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson was talking about earlier, i.e. that they too need to think about the future. What still matters me, and I get kind of confused at each of the talks I listen to in this case, is whether it really means the execution of the Circle Course, or is postponed for some reason. I don't hear clear answers yet. I wonder what. A senator can teach me and the audience how to do this, but he can also tell me what he thinks. The senator will see. In nature, I find it a little strange to be discussing some organizational matter at the Council. I have to say right now, I think it's weird. Here are people in talks, and in general, the speech becomes quite harsh and a little bit harsh, so someone is pointed out and said, "You don't want this, and you don't want people to be healthy. " That's what you hear, if you read between the lines. I don't think it's right. I don't feel that anyone in this discussion is willing to do anything that affects the health of the people. I think that anyone who believes in this matter, whoever it is, will base it on their assessment of what is best for our nation, best for our health. So there are natural systems to determine the outcome of a particular party. But at least. If the proposal was to be accepted, would it have a negative effect on the structure taking place at the Ring Road, or would it somehow delay that task? If there is any possibility of doing so, what would be the attitude of the senator? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u75	Mr. President. I think that almost everyone involved in politics feels that they are working for the public and working for some kind of policy that serves the interests of the public. I believe that at least men try to convince themselves. But we have also seen that our course is important. Some policies work and exploit the general public. Other policies are extremely dangerous. As to the question of possible delays in performance, I have expressed that view from the moment I began to express myself on this matter as Prime Minister, that I did not want to delay the necessary action on the Circle Road, e.g. The need for maintenance, though I showed the importance of reevaluating their plans. Of course, this does not apply to the therapeutic core i.e. The new hospital, kind of. We will not start with it if we are at the same time reevaluating where we will build it. Once the sink is down and started building, it is difficult to bring it all together into a new place, so this is a very important matter. So I now take it together in a relatively short answer, Mr. President, of course, will still need a maintenance program on the Ring Road. We've got an emergency hotel to complete. And it will even have to be carried out on the Ringtrack after the construction of a new place. Of course, we do not begin to build a new hospital just to stop it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u76	A respectable president. I'd appreciate it if I did. In view of the likely delay in the construction of the treatment core, a senator shared with me and his viewers how the public's bioavailability would be affected. I must admit that I have not taken steps to such an extent that I can have some claim on the effect of a particular decision. I follow my course and make informed decisions as best I can. But there is also a factor in our having a clear view of where we stand to the consequences of the decisions we make. The consequences, e.g. delay of treatment core structure? There must be the key questions in the General Assembly on the issue, that people have a common view of the consequences. All that I've had. A senator can instruct me on that subject I appreciate it. There is, in fact, something else. A man should not have two questions in one answer if it is gone, but I got it now in one minute. But I'm a little confused about how politicians talk to each other about how short they've been and what not. As far as I can see, Congress is approved at the General Assembly on May 16, 2014, saying, with the permission of the president: ▪ The General concludes to hide the government's completion as soon as possible to prepare for the renewal and construction of a National Hospital at the Reykjavík Circle Course and to begin implementation once funding has been secured. With it, all in attendance received votes, including whiskers. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson and the one standing here. I just wanted to throw it out because I thought it was a little inconsistencies with that as a matter of course. A member of the Sanhedrin took the lead in giving a talk. I mention it mainly because I am a little surprised at how men blame each other, who has supported what time they have been, rather than approaching the subject based on an assessment of the consequences of their actions. [[The president calls.]] I'm not going to throw this out to shame. A senator, but I'm curious about how it works.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u77	Mr. President. I think that's what. A senator, who is in my opinion a great nerd - and this is a compliment - will realize it if he examines all the reasons for this case that it will not lead to failure to open and take advantage of the hospital to stop building a new hospital on Ring Way and build it in a new place. On the contrary, as has been demonstrated, and data are available to build much faster in a new location. The fact is that building in the existing settlements is much more expensive and time - consuming, and I don't talk about densely populated areas where traffic problems are like the highway, but in a new place. These projects can be started quickly, made good use of, reinvigorated, and reassigned to another hospital. - Not later, but sooner than possible on Ring Lane. With regard to the synonym, as it were. A senator mentioned, if I told him the same thing as in the first act, to examine the reasons and history of the matter, to view the document laid at the outset, on the original Synod of a new land hospital on the Ringway, where it was outlined how to build a new hospital on the Ringway. Hence, a document was issued because the senators of the Agency failed to agree that the council submitted a proposal for a new land hospital on the Ring Road. On the other hand, everyone agreed that needed to make needed improvements. In fact, this involved emergency measures, at least in view of the descriptions of the hospital's officers on the news. Similarly, a hospital hotel would be built, but this building was also expected to be used for other needs when the hospital moved.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u78	The President considers nerd an Icelandic. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u79	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. Much is clear and specific in this regard, as is his hope and direction. I am an educated historian, and as such, we do well not to go to the politicians themselves as a warrant for the history of what really happens when they come to bed. Well, I've done it for a while. A senator gave advice. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, to go to the background and consider this proposal and its treatment at the council. There is much to it. A senator, but perhaps less. What I wanted to ask you. A senator is that he was the highest. On the day of May 16, 2014, when the synonym was agreed to agree and referred to as prime minister in a plan for the construction of a new national hospital, I quote in it myself in votes that he is working on with the highest degree. the current health minister and the highest. Secretary of finance. V.E.G. A health minister also comes up in an explanation that day and talks about the same thing. V.E.G. present - day Prime Minister and prime minister. And this is the sea, so I say, by permission of the President: ▪... has already taken the initiative to talk to me in a very upbuilding way about how to conduct such cooperation. That. the construction of a new national hospital. Hv. A senator served as prime minister about two years after those words were passed away. What happened to the work mentioned here so much? Why have we not seen any evidence of her, who was evidently very happy about it? It could be because some viewed the approved synonym, though not so. A senator obviously didn't do that, as if some part of the reconciliation had revolved around Ring Road? But what happened to this heavy - scale work here on May 16, 2014? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u80	Mr. President. I don't think that's the right conclusion. A senator said that some of the senators who agreed to that proposal saw her as a way of pushing on this Ring Road project, though not all have. But it is very strange if they are going to try to use the suggestion to put men in these mistakes, which are more obvious with each month, that because the council agreed and that apparently by the opinion of these people some members of the council were deceived to accept the synonym, they just have to finish the matter according to the motion. It's not gonna hold water. More than much else in the argument, in order to call the argument, which has been used in this matter. With regard to the future question of work, however, it is critical. A senator, quite reasonable. It must be said at the moment that there was no room between me and the two ministers mentioned, the then secretary of finance and health, perhaps the health minister, about how this matter should develop and disappointed that it should develop in the way it did. But I was very open with my attitude on the matter all that time, and I repeatedly expressed myself. Some mediamen even played a game against my health - care minister on a discussion of what was to be done about the right thing to do. You're right next door. A senator's lack of solidarity was as soon as it came about how to approach this matter. However, it was not clear that a large proportion of independence men, including members of the Independence Party, had full understanding of the matter, and were like me, even though health ministers were not.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u81	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. I feel that he has confirmed that not everyone felt the same way about this proposal. A senator and one of the highest. Then the prime minister. Not even the highest. Ministers of his government at that time. Let them know who they want. I'll have to reread this suggestion as a question. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson read earlier: ▪ The General concludes to hide the government's completion as soon as possible to prepare for the renewal and construction of a National Hospital at the Reykjavík Circle Course and to begin implementation once funding has been secured. Anyone who wants to have considered this a proposal to build up the Land Hospital on the Ring Road, including even a national hospital. But it's good to talk about it. Although I am an educated historian, you are not supposed to be too attached to the past, but look to the future. That's why I'd like to ask him why. A member of the Parliament that he has talked about the need for the construction of the National Hospital to be held in a different location than the Ring Road and just for my education, I have never understood the point of being in contact with the airport. I'd like to pray. A senator trying to educate me, and I'm asking with sincerity because there's a lot of reasons about the fact that the airport will remain in the Hydromosis that it is necessary for connection with the hospital and the local hospital to build up there. If it is now to have the National Hospital elsewhere, is it necessary to move the airport to a greater extent near that local hospital in a new location? Or how to see it. A senator predicts that if possible, they will be assigned to the new national hospital in another location? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u82	Mr. President. Just to settle this with the Senate resolution proposal, I'm here quoting myself from April 2015, on the leave of a president who was being discussed with us on the Ring Way. That's where I say: I believe this case is pretty much on schedule and completely in accordance with the government's policy declaration. - Which it was. - But it's not right. A senator agreed to be approved by a resolution of a new Hospital on Ring Road. It was particularly noted that the wording could not be accepted while men were still following the approach to respond to the lack of maintenance that occurred in the last terms during which the Landsaver became a victim of enormous proportions and repetitive cuts.•6, etc., people can fill in the gaps with the rest. Of course, regarding the airport, there is an important connection between the role of the capital and the role of the whole country's Service Centres. A new facility, e.g. With the villus, however, the addition of the sharpness of the travel period at the airport is very strong that I understand that there will be only one or two minutes in travel time at the Vifils site as compared to getting away from the airport at the ringway, but it is dependent on not going to be a complete traffic jam here as unfortunately a policy that seems to be possible. However, there will be access to new hospitals at Vifils, or to other places mentioned as potential benefits, much better than on Ring Road if a driver comes in an ambulance or in other ways out of the country or in a helicopter. The position for helicopters in a place like the Whirlpool is much better, and it gives everything other than the Circle Course.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u83	V.E.G. President. The suggestion here may be the first or largest attempt to lift the 20 - year silence to the location of a national hospital on Ring Road. Several studies have been conducted, and several reports have been published. They are all said to be in agreement, and for a long time in this discussion, they were spoken of as being united. It has now been thrown into men because they are not at all. The first one assumes that it is better to build in Fos Cove than it is on Ring Road. I can't remember if it's in a report number two or three that says, "If there's no place to build than we're gonna build on Ring Road." This is what men have not listened to, and they have not watched. It's no wonder that an anthill situation, like when you kick into an anthill, when you come up with suggestions like this, which interfere with the decades'work of some with this and continue their decades' work on the same party. I understand that the employees and managers of the hf, who are now to accept this building, are not particularly pleased with the proposal presented here. It is quite amazing, though, that once the reasoning of those who want to build on the Ring Way - part of them is on the fast run from themselves and are not even here to talk about it and surely will not be accepted when it comes to it - if these people are willing to pour out 100 billion dollars. down into or near Water marrina. They say, "This is only the first hospital, we're just gonna have this while the rest is being built." I think there must be some kind of record in my sock's expense to pour 100 billion on that project. That's all I believe. You also say, "Let's raise the treatment core, and everything will be fine. " Okay. It doesn't make sense either. Because if present plans become reality, patients at the Land Hospital will be in the construction site for the next 30 years. Because when the treatment core is ready, it is not all finished. Not at all. This calls for cleaning up or renovating all the old houses on the toad. Whatever the man may say, building projects will be on the box for the next 203/4:30 years. Then we are told: This is about to delay the matter by about 10 to 15 years. One professional from another has declared that the construction of a national hospital is a period of about four years. It's the project time itself. They say it's a delay of about 10 to 15 years. I must ask, then, What are we going to do with those 1,915 years that people say the delay is? Is this to argue about local choice? To plan? It's so crazy. It is not any problem to put together a report during the period of construction in which there is a future hospital, and it will not delay, since the amount of time that this will take to return during the period of construction is much quicker to build where nothing is available. Also, I've asked professionals if taking the hospital either to Vifils or to Köldum is a delay in design time. They say: No, it is possible to continue designing this treatment house, and then circumstances at a construction site, such as land palaces and foundations, must be considered. Coins or sands or anything like that. However, another simple way to say: A hole can be shoveled and the house can be built anywhere in itself. This doesn't hold out anything. At that time, however, it has been achieved that those who have claimed that the Landspians are to be on the Circle Course to the future have already acknowledged that this is not true, that they have been promoting deception throughout the whole time. Because the hospital to build on the Ring Road, there's no new national hospital. No, it's only the hospital to be used during the construction of the new national hospital. We're gonna build two. It is not to ask, "When we're in a lot of trouble, we have so much money. " Last week's discussions said the highest. A health minister who is not now present for this discussion, and I'm sorry that the ideas presented here in a special discussion a week ago or so were dangerous ideas. I ask myself, " A dangerous idea for who? ' Is building a new national hospital in a better place a dangerous idea for patients? No. This will prevent patients from being stored on construction sites for the next 30 years. Is this a dangerous idea for employees? I don't think so. It takes the staff of the Land Hospital now 20 minutes every day, from day shift at 4:00 a.m., to get out of the parking lot of the Land Hospital on the Snorra Way. Then they'll go home. People who live in 104 or 105 in Reykjavík are 40 minutes on their way out of their place of work and home. Same thing happens in the morning. I'm thinking, " What happens to the poor man in the North Pole who has a heart attack? ' They have to drive him through Reykjavík to the old Circle House, the New National Hospital. What's going to happen to him? I don't think he's being taken care of in this. Is that what you're thinking about? I've felt, in all this discussion, that you're talking about, at least, it's really hard for employees to get in and out of work. That's right. But let us not forget that there are several hundred if not a thousand who come to visit their loved ones who are in the hospital every day. A few years ago, I remember a discussion in which a moody Conspiracy was on television wondering how to get to and from that hospital. Yes, she said, "Men just ride. I said to myself, "Yes, most of the patients are now out of the lightest spoon,'i.e. more part is only for age. I pictured an old woman who was going to visit her husband at the hospital on a bicycle with a box of chocolates on her brambles and a bouquet of flowers in her mouth, biting her jaws. And I have to admit that I didn't think it was a very beautiful prospect, I'll just admit it right here and now. I wonder again, " Who is this idea dangerous? ' I think I've come to a conclusion. It is not dangerous to patients or employees or caregivers. I think it's dangerous politicians who don't have the guts to say, "We were wrong, let's do it again. " It is a dangerous, dangerous government man who has been living for several decades working on this idea and until the very next 20 to 25 years while working on it, ohf. and partners. There's the danger. But the real danger is not being taken care of. Is this idea a dangerous government fund? On the contrary, it is very practical for government funds, for it does not allow for 100 billion hospital stays to be used for 20 years. Those who have this case, in this government, are well - known for their lack of courage, even for 30 years, to have been willing to cast the money of the citizens of the land. There's nothing new. It's just another manifestation on it. They don't have the courage to make new decisions, they don't have the courage to make them. Then there are 100 billion people to pour into the Emmyrina for single use. It's easy to be generous with other people's money, said nicely against an official whom I once worked for. This is a clear example of this. Whatever makes sense, let's pour 100 billion into the Emmerium, no matter what it sounds like. Mr. President. If I speak carelessly, I'm sorry. Because this matter is far more difficult and serious than it should be. It is very serious to pour down 100 billion tax dollars for single use. The responsibility of those who want to do so is great, and it will not be forgotten while this single hospital will be used - if at any time, I hope it will not be. Mr. President. I hope the senator's sense of reason is at hand, and they agree to this proposal for local selection to prevent the imminent accident in the Hydromosis.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u84	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. As I said before, I support this suggestion, and do it again; for I don't see many of her opposers going to speak today, though I don't know it for one reason. A senator. Hv. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's stone was a matter of opinion as to which this proposal was dangerous. I have to say, even though I'm not very religious in general, whether it's a state, a country, or human institutions, they're natural radicals, like all of us, I find a hypothesis. A senator can't resist. He mentioned two things that I noticed, and one was that the proposal was dangerous to politicians who were afraid to admit that they were wrong. I know that many politicians have a terrible problem accepting that they've ever been wrong, something I think is strange, but I know it will happen. What I don't feel quite right about in this case is that, at the same time, he talks. A senator in charge of this is the end of the 20 - year silence. If that was the quietness of the day, it has likely been at the time they politicians made decisions, at a time when they could have developed a different view. So I don't think it's quite right. The other is that the proposal is dangerous to officials who have worked on these decades. I insist that officials also have to follow the suggestion, I don't know what it is about the current plan that would keep more officials working than with the construction of a new hospital in a new place. I think much rather that the fear of people, at least many ways, of the proposal is that it will delay the development of the Ring Way. Even if it's not the right conclusion, if you look at the data, I think there is a genuine fear of a lot of people in the discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u85	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I'm not quite sure where the question is. Actually, it wasn't my word that this was a dangerous idea. It was a word of the highest degree. Minister of health last week. However, I allowed myself to imagine who this proposal could be dangerous, suggesting that it could be dangerous to politicians who have the courage to admit to themselves and to others that they have wronged and would do things differently. You're right. One senator says that this idea has worked out as it is for 20 years, more or less under the end. First, if you talk to the hospital staff, they may hardly have the courage to give a name with their views, and they argue that it is not advisable for them to discuss the matter openly at their place of work. I have no memory to suggest that the hospital's minds have been taken seriously to the construction site on Ring Road. I think a number of government officials who have had to live a lifetime to open their hearts to this stupid proposal for 20 years and keep it alive with a hammer will see to it that if this is taken from them and brought to others who are going to build a new national hospital in a new place, they will lose their money. I hope that I answered the question asked by the senator that, as I said, I was not quite sure where the question was.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u86	A respectable president. I can't quite believe that some government officials will lose their money on making a decision. I don't see how making such a decision makes people lose their jobs. It's supposed to be quite famous how hard it is to fire government officials, but I'll leave it to others to defend that opinion or hypothesis or what to call it. We are in the foundation of talking about organizational matters. I like it. A senator I respect may speak in conspirators, and I also feel it. paritaprevir Gunnlaugsson, the son of Gunnak, decided that there are people somewhere who want to make the wrong decision because they gain personal gain from it. That is how it sounds to me, and then I find it a little hard to believe, though I am certainly aware of human weakness and how a system can make fantastic decisions, even organizations like the high Council. But why did the people in their time prevail, some 20 years ago? Where does that trigger come from? Could it not be that there is now a moral fear, a sincere fear of delays in building? And that 20 years ago, people made decisions based on what they saw and are told in the proposal that they no longer stand up? That doesn't sound like something anyone should be ashamed to say. These were the criteria 20 years ago, and now they're different. Politicians say such things every day. I'm not buying this whole theory. Hv. A senator went quite the right way in his first answer, to be given it, but I have another question, Why the silence of his time? [[The president calls.]] Why has this been silenced for 20 years?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u87	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Pirat's senator for a back-up talk about the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u88	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u89	I didn't think I'd experience such a moment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u90	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u91	But thank you, anyway. I'm not part of the conspiracy theory. Now I don't remember what happened. A senator was like me at a very good meeting in the Norwegian house in the fall of the election campaign, where the good people who have fought what has been decided and best and most for the construction of a new national hospital in a new and better place crossed the others about 20 years old history and then passed through what is true, that it has almost not been allowed to discuss at any other time of motion but that a new national hospital would be established on the Ringway. Who will benefit from this? I don't know. I'm still looking for them. The sincere fear of him who fears him. A senator says that there may be a delay in the performance of the project, but it is not justified because of the transfer of this hospital, i.e. To build it in a new and better place from the foundation, it shall not delay this process at all. As I mentioned earlier in my talk: Is it so that when the treatment core of the Ring Road is ready, everyone will be happy from then on? No, patients will stay in the construction area for the next 20 years while the old buildings are being rebuilt. The theory of delays in performance simply doesn't match, huh? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u92	Mr. President. The matter we address is a very social decision. This is a very important matter for the nation's health, a very large financial decision, a very big decision for organizational matters, and city life in Reykjavík. Those who have maintained this presentation come in particular from two political groups, the category of carriers, hombre. paritaprevir Árnadóttir Kolbrún, i.e. Middle-class, and my party, The Gang of the People. In all modesty, let me mention that this matter is by no means new to me. In recent years, I have had the opportunity to discuss the location of the Land Hospital, including the in the media. The bottom line is the decision-making thing in a democratic society. We are faced with the fact that the most important and even the most important ground for the development of a national hospital on Ring Road is a serious doubt, to be taken into account. It's as simple as that. This has been held, from the time of the assembly in mid - December, including the discussion of the budget bill, and repeated efforts, I allow myself to say, to bring the authorities to their senses on the grounds that these important criteria are not readily available. What are they? They are particularly involved in organizational matters, routes, parking lots, construction facilities on the fields, relationships with existing and affected buildings, as reported in the media, from moisture and molds, as cases of employees who have suffered from suffering because of health problems at their workplace. What happens in this case is that due to the highest court officials in the seminary, a major offense is being taken up and said that if the basic concept of a professional standard analysis is raised and taken into consideration for several months, moderate time, it will be necessary for the development of the nation's main hospital to be held for some 10 to15 years. There's a slight margin in that assessment, I'll tell you. Those who have maintained this presentation of courtesy and modesty, which has characterized him with a much simpler reference to the predecessors, for a dramatic discussion that has taken place among interested members of the civil organization called the Syndicate of a better hospital in a better place, are found in the question of being taken seriously. It is sometimes spoken of the respect of the Generals and of such. You ask yourself: " Is it a fall to increase the respect of the Generals that when it comes to obvious dangers of success as a mistake, not to say an accident, there is no way to get a thorough discussion, which is characterized by anything other than big talk, such as that this will postpone the whole matter for about 10 to 15 years, and so on? Then there are smaller criteria that are of no importance but have been involved in this case and some have been mentioned in previous talks, such as that choosing this location would have meaning for the construction of central city Reykjavík, as if there were a reason for choosing a place for the national hospital itself. Another factor that has been stated is the importance of being close to the University of Iceland, when everyone knows that medical education and research are being conducted throughout the city. Is there any point, then, that we are near the university headquarters? It is also noteworthy during the discussion that is not mentioned. I'm going to allow myself to bring it to the attention of those who struggle to defend this location and decision, in case a decision should be made. There's no mention of economic practicality in the building of the Ring Road and ties to the barbers and mold houses there. A few years ago, at national radio stations, a man discussed the figure of benefits, some 3 billion each year in the economy. In view of the discussion at that time, it was to be a financial justification for this choice. But that amount of money out of business is natural, as one realizes. There are other strange things to be seen in this case. One thing is that here is a report from a review firm, which is the most excellent firm, and I should be the least inclined to say or speak in any way, but what on earth do we have to do with a report on organizational matters and such factors, even medical factors, from the hands of an accountant? There are some very strange things in this situation. It is as if a state of dismay to face the fact that this case may have been a challenge rather than a pasturage, and foresee is truly needed when big decisions are made. Mr. President. I let myself finish my talk by encouraging those who present these matters to revise their strong stand against the modesty, moderation, and perfunctory communication that has been maintained here and the warnings of the disaster that may be coming upon us. I remind you of what I've said in the past about the mistakes we're about to make. The hospital is claimed to be a trustier than, Mr. President, a mistake will not be better because it is a treasure - filled one.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u93	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this speech. She was like him, pointing to a vast and modest matter and came to the very heart of the matter. There is one thing I would like to pray. One or two things to be done by a senator. First, the practicality of the current location is a $3 billion jar, which is now like raisins in a sack of wheat compared to the total hospital business. I just want to pray. A senator to review it better. I would also like to ask him to give me a short office, with the permission of the President, for the fact that while the construction of a new hospital is fully financed, there is no objection to the continuation of the period and financing that is being held, because the funding currently available for a new hospital building is no land phone money, it is the money of Iceland's state fund that goes nowhere if the budget is available. I just want to pray. A senator reviews these two points again and sheds more light on them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u94	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's answer. Yes, this was for a number of years used as a kind of justification, perhaps a point of sale, that it would result in the choice of practicality for business up to 3 billion years. every year. There are dozens of companies here, if not hundreds of billions, so this is, of course, within all dissociative boundaries with such programs. I'll just say that I don't think that I think it's a reason to overpower this money, too, because that discussion is up. This figure has not been heard for years. I'm going to reiterate it and make it seem very obvious to me that there's nothing about it, so we're going from business to stock costs, and then we're going to be a complete tabloid, so I'll allow myself to use the word that I now believe is entitled to be a citizen in the Icelandic language, Mr. President, to discuss the value and the practicality of building a new place. Then I'd like to say that the financing that's claimed to be available can't be localized, it's natural for the hospital. Finally, I would like to say that I find it most embarrassing to the government, which I allow to say paralyze to these indications that they face the fact that this new hospital hotel is now open to the weather and wind and is in its own way under damage. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u95	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much for that answer. There are also other factors because they are absolutely right. A senator says that this economic situation is no longer mentioned because men have driven from one port to another in defense of their planned decision. As I allowed myself to say, I don't know which way. I agree with this, in my speech earlier, that there seems to be a great disturbance among politicians of any time - now I realize that in 20 years very many politicians and ministers have come into this matter - or fear of acknowledging that men have gone wrong and have turned from it. Like what? A senator put it so well, addressed the modest and legitimate comments on the subject. That is one factor that in itself has not been prominent in this discussion today. I wanted to ask you what. A senator will know if he has any knowledge of that point. The next thing you know, it's pretty clear that there's going to be a huge operation to take on traffic vessels near the hospital if it's built on Ring Road. I don't remember that this cost has been calculated into the cost of the project as such, since I want to mention 100 billion, and I think it's pretty close. The question is: Has what? A senator's information on how much it will cost to try to get transportation around the Round Road to an end? Then I'm talking about even a tunnel under the sofa, I'm talking about a few different corners, etc. I'd appreciate it if the senator could shed some light on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u96	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's comments and comments. What I believe is that using his words here, he clearly reminds us of the basic factors that have been fundamental to traffic vessels in and out of the hospital. It was made very clear at a meeting that was held up by the aforementioned organization in my speech, the organization of better hospitals, including the ancients - and the whales. Councilmen, if you don't mind me saying so, there were two tunnels in Reykjavík, one under the air. A senator took care of it. And it's essential that the Grand Prix be in a box and something like that. Then, in the late stages, it is assumed that residence streets in the area of the hospital should be guided by heavy transport in linen and so on. We're talking about the city of Erik in Reykjavík. So all the water falls to animal farms in these substances. This defense of these fine supporters of construction on the Non-President Ring Road, based on reports that do not meet the opinion at least In every respect, it is in the sand.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u97	Mr. President. We'll discuss a proposal for a hearing of what is called an independent professional local analysis for a new national hospital. In effect, the headline included all that has been done in this case, all the experts involved, all the committees, all the professionals involved, any professionals involved in it, any other viewpoints or views other than professional opinions, and when they submitted their opinions. I don't think so. I think that those people had a pretty good foundation to appreciate on what basis would be wise to build the hospital on Ring Road and why it would be wiser to build it there than anywhere else. Well, let's not forget that, my dear. Senators, the mission has already begun on Ring Lane. The building of a hospital hotel at the Ring Road has already already been built or far away, and this summer the first pair of shovels will be taken to the treatment core, which will give the largest part of the benefits of transporting the hospital at the Ring Road, in the largest part of the world. In 2011, it was estimated that the benefits of building a 1 stage that was then referred to as a treatment core of about 2.5 -2.6 billion per year. That's a lot of money. It is money that we imagine possible, as soon as this treatment core has been built, to care for patients, but not to do something like moving patients between the therapeutic cores as it is done today. It's a little big. During a ten - year period, 2.5 billion have suddenly turned to a large amount of money. This timer doesn't just matter about it. It is also important because they have patients. There are people who need treatment. Senators have to realize that as we wait, we cannot live in a land hospital on the Ring Road as he is today the most perfect equipment and equipment. There are already more than one and two cases in which people simply cannot go to a new set of equipment because the house on Ring Lane today does not allow it to permit it. We are, for example. not using the most advanced PET scan available today, although there is in the country itself knowledge to use such a device, we are talking about a generation of devices that are next to us because the location on the spot today does not allow using the most advanced device. What's the plan? Senators often ponder over the surface of the decision and often turn beneath the fur before they realize that the decision has been made? Last year in 2014, and there's nothing overexcited long ago since it was, 2014, well, three and a half years. At that time, they were unconvinced at the council. Unjustly. 56 members of the council, seven were gone. [[It's a natural twist.]] 56 senators with seven men away. The proposal that was approved, I'm going to read it, with president's permission, was like this: ▪ The General concludes to hide the government's completion as soon as possible to prepare for the renewal and construction of a National Hospital at the Reykjavík Circle Course and to begin implementation once funding has been secured. So many were words. This is what it says. Nine health ministers from five different political parties have been involved. I think those senators who say that men are struggling to take the discussion may want to look at themselves. Who objected to the facts? Who are the object of watching that the number of patients and the number of health care professionals waiting for a new hospital are waiting? If there are a few years of differences between making another circle of activity and sticking to the decision that has already been made, then all of this should be considered in more detail about the organizational matters in the city of Reykjavík or in the capital area. Such a decision and such actions will not be made in just a few extra months, even in a few extra years. True, there is an issue about how long time might be, but I have heard from eight to 15 years that this would remember. It's just a considerable amount. If we look at who the savings are a year, we're talking about a lot of money, even if we took the lower limit. You see, waiting takes a lot. We're worried about traffic. I understand those concerns quite well. Happily, the city authorities in Reykjavík are now working on a city line that is to be taken into account in the capital area. As a result, if we stick to that decision, the city line will likely be ready, or very far, to be ready at the point when the hospital will be prepared, which is brilliant. I think the money of the government and the local community around them would be pretty well spent on that project. I think, in the meantime, the priorities that the city has already begun to set up for the hospital will help. I'm not worried that there's a problem we can't solve. I'm much more concerned that we'll let ourselves take another spin on where we're going to go with the hospital. Let's look 40, 50 years ahead. Then it may be time to build a new hospital, perhaps. I'm willing to take that discussion with men where the hospital will be, whether he'll stay at the Ringtrack or if he'll go somewhere else. But I'm not going to take that discussion right now. I'm not going to tell patients and staff: No, the council is going to take one more spin. We're gonna do the fifth spin on this. We're waiting for another health minister. We're gonna wait for another decision. Just stay calm. The disintegration and lack of housing and trouble with the house we live in today, we just put it on ice, don't we? Let us pretend that no decision has been made. Let's just pretend we're on zero now. It's not like that. Senators. Let's try to resolve on the project that has already been made, build a new hospital, and try to get ahead of it with the Ring Road. When that assignment is done, we can start to wonder if he will be left somewhere else for 50 years or if we will continue on Ring Way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u98	V.E.G. President. Thank you for being here first in this order. I'd like to go over a few things with a little bit of a reason. Senator. First, how many patients are being taken to the hospital each year? Second, how will it take eight years or more to organize territory for a new hospital? We're not talking about an elf. We don't have to go to a local event or anything like that, we're talking about a hospital, we're talking about a hospital. We're talking about a hospital in a foreign country. The organization in that area is extremely simple, extremely clear. We've been talking mainly about two places when we throw up this idea, on the other hand, the Underground Area of the State. I don't believe that it's a good idea for both of these communities to get organized if they want the hospital to rise in their community. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to get a call from what? Senator on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u99	A respectable president. Thanks for that. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. As he naturally knows about, the city line does not transport patients to the hospital. Rather, it moves staff there and hopefully some visitors. Most of the trips to the hospital are not trips from patients to the hospital but from those who work there and those who visit the patients. Happily, they can make the best use of public transportation, at least many of them, and a priority line that is already working, as I mentioned in my talk, will be able to ensure that patients will continue safely to get to the hospital. Let's figure it out. I don't know if it's gonna happen. The people of the assembly have learned that the Landskeeper as he is today, i.e. On the one hand, on Ring Course and on the other, in Fos Soir, one of the shortest times in Europe from the call to the hospital.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u100	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the record. In my speech earlier, I quoted a member of the Land Hospital who told me that it would take 20 minutes to leave the land hospital parking lot after day shift at four and out on Snorra Way. I suppose with the fast one as fast as possible. A senator quotes him as quoting even. The concrete cables of the Great Course that have to tear down now, which I now don't want to rush for any single traffic anywhere. But people come to this hospital elsewhere, and on the Grand Way, people come from the south, i.e. ... fromSindenneswith patients and so on. There are also visitors from the upper city of Reykjavík. How should this be solved if not brought near the center of the hospital, closer to the center of an apartment area, closer to the center of transportation, closer to the center of the hospital's affected area instead of building it on what is now being published?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u101	Mr. President. The situation today is that it takes time because there are far more cars on the streets than it would have to be because public transportation is not in good condition. So we're going to change, and that's what we're going to solve. On the other hand, it's about what it's like. A senator asked about in his previous answer about how it may be possible to take about eight years to find a new hospital place, so I'm simply quoting nothing more trivial than the government administration, which, in fact, thinks it will take 101.715 years to start the project over again. Seven to eight years of optimism, as I mentioned earlier, but I think reality will be sadly the other, and we must also allow ourselves to examine the story in that context. We have spent almost 20 years wondering where to put the hospital now. So why do people think that we are changing our mind and that something is going to work more quickly?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u102	Mr. President. I think it's a reason to make it clear because of the speaker's words. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór, son of Gunnarsson, in the beginning of his speech, that I have not heard anyone so much as suggest that any report or anyone in this case had some other viewpoint. I just haven't heard it before and I haven't heard anyone say it, Mr. President. Hv. A senator speaks of patients waiting. Eight o'clock. A senator does not realize that patients are not waiting for explosions, stonings, noises, noises, and disturbance in the coming years, people in a more sensitive position? And finally, I'd like to mention something else that I may be allowed to do, Mr. President, in my second answer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u103	Mr. President. Now, with the permission of the president, I'm going to read 3 mg. The report provided by this synonym. Start reading: The aim of this proposal is to make an independent professional local analysis for the new national hospital. A professional statistical analysis is needed to see where it was most practical and best to build a new national hospital. With these words it is claimed that this was not done so far, that so far there has been no such professional analysis, and I just allow myself to protest it. [[The point is, where does it say?]] There's been repeated reports. There have been repeated local analyses. If they are always going to say that the standard analysis would not please them if it was not professional, we would be talking about all the matters in that way. There is no need for any senator to argue that so far those who were involved in the work did not work professionally. [[The president calls.]] I object.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u104	Mr. President. I would like to emphasize in my second answer to what would be a heavy responsibility when it comes to finding solutions with practical motives. It is clear to many that there is a crisis in health care. I think maybe it's a lot lighter than a guy sitting on a dog. The General Fundament Committee. There, representatives of the National Hospital, the Akureyri Hospital, the U.S.A., the National Health Centres, the nursing homes, made it clear that there is no serious funding in this system. To offer this in a discussion of such a grand project that you should just face the fact that this decision has been made, and you should accept it, and it's like this, and because it's just and so on, Mr President, it's an invitation to make a statement. [[The president calls.]] [[Up in the hall: right.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u105	Mr. President. Of course, such factors as shock are important. A senator suggests that men perform their tasks in the most practical way. There is no doubt about it. That's even. That's why the standard selection of the Ringtrack was originally chosen. In the years following the collapse, I don't remember whether it was 2009, 2010, or 2011, when the cost estimate of building the hospital on the other side of a circuit like my plans is now versed to build somewhere else, people concluded that we simply couldn't afford to start from ground to ground somewhere else. There may well be a problem. Today, members of Congress appreciate it so much that we can afford it because the interests of the State have improved so much. However, I think, and still feel that it is better to build the hospital we need, not necessarily the one we want. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u106	V.E.G. President. No, we should not accept building just what we need. I like it. A senator does not have much ambition for those whom he now claims to represent in this public talk chair, both patients and the staff of the Land Hospital. We need to build a good hospital. We need to build on that place for the future, where there is some kind of benefit and a vision for the future. Hv. A senator often uses patients in his argument. I'm going to do the same right after. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament: Does he believe that he has solved the road problems that obviously exist regarding the approach to the Ring Way? A senator correctly came in earlier? The Senator in his speech said that it would be fine. We'd just take care of the transportation. It's obvious that the city line is not just going to fix it on its own. How's it going, man? A senator to take care of that? Has it been examined? Then I'd like to ask. A senator. Now we've got a what? A senator was in the medical department at the Hospital. Does he not know that employees refused to talk about these things? Man the senator after the meeting that we were both in the Norwegian house where the staff complained about us that they wouldn't talk, that there was silence in the hospital? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u107	A respectable president. Hv. A senator asked if transportation had been resolved. The answer is no, but it is. Hv. A senator is naturally well aware of this, just as I do that such work is being carried on. We know that the Landspians will be at the Ring Road next to us at least. six or seven years, no matter what we decide to do today or the next time. I now believe in the city authorities and the transportation authorities that these matters will be resolved at this time. Let's figure it out, too, huh? A senator, that by making the final decision on the location of the Ring Road, as I thought we had long since done, the pressure on transport authorities and the city authorities will further increase to complete and solve this problem. You can do it. There are road models of it, just as there are road models because it can be difficult to do so. I think we should give ourselves a chance to do that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u108	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer and the fact that he has no idea how to solve these traffic issues, and he realizes that no one has informed him of that, either. Hv. A senator did not answer my question about whether he knew that at a meeting in the Norwegian house, the Land Hospital staff told of its use of silence, that it must be spoken of only by the National Hospital as being on Ring Road. I'd like to ask you, too. A member of the council, since he cares so much about the patients. How can it be? A senator thought of inviting patients to live on hammers for 10, 12 years, explosions, dust, hundreds of traders, thousands of trucks going around and around the construction site in a new hospital? How can it be? A senator said that it doesn't matter when he has such concern for the patient? That's exactly what needs to be prevented from such conditions for years and decades, since we really don't know how much time it takes to complete, e.g. The old buildings at the Land Hospital. If they need to be torn down because they're so badly damaged and smuggled, what then? Hv. A senator must realize that it will not take longer to build a new hospital. [[The president calls.]] If he has studied the case, e.g. at www.briis, experts have reasoned that a new hospital can be restored in 10 years. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u109	Mr. President. I don't think there's any sense of silence going on. That the talk has been relatively alive and awake in the media and in the community and elsewhere is an outstanding example of this. [[Up front.]] I haven't seen it in the hospital that there's no silence. I think two of the most eager spokesmen to change their mind or talk about other places at the hospital are exactly the most respected employees at the Land Hospital. It's fine. The others are just a lot more. It's just that way. That is why the staff of the Land Hospital are large enough to not form on the platform at the time of this discussion. Hv. A senator should not think that this is an accident. There's no one out there wondering why we're having this conversation right now. [[Answer the question.]] There's nothing going on. [[The president calls.]] It's not a coincidence. The decision has been made. That's how people in general view it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u110	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I just wanted to hear from someone who was opposed to this matter giving one speech, praying. A senator changing places with me, he was up for it, thanking him for that. I'm here giving a brief talk on my vision on this matter following this discussion today. What I noticed in a case anyway. paritaprevir The Sigmurs of Sigmundur, the Gunnlaugsson of Gunnuga, when I asked him earlier in response, i.e. when I asked why. A senator's success with regard to delays in the current mission on Ring Road was, in fact, the main thing he did, if I understood him correctly, that would be the core of treatment, that of the treatment that I heard in speech. The senator that the first shovel breaker would be taken care of this summer, that the treatment core would be delayed. If I have my right, which isn't always the case, then some senator mentioned an eight-month delay, something like that, I don't know how practical it is, and maybe I was mistaken. But I'd like to ask you why. A senator will know what the effect is. [[The president calls.]] How important is the core of the treatment and the delay in its structure of the criteria we need to consider when making a decision on this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u111	A respectable president. This may be a more complicated question, but it can be answered in one minute. If we decide to take the hospital somewhere else in one place or another, you do not begin to build a treatment core and have it anywhere else but the hospital in a completely different place. It won't work that way. The idea is to use the treatment core at the Ring Road and build it there so that the space can continue to be used there, with other support services to be used. Just starting somewhere else at the treatment core will not work. Then you'll have to start an entire hospital because you can't have a single core of treatment and no departments and nothing else in the hospital. It'll never work. The delay in this may be reduced to the time it would take to build a new hospital from scratch.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u112	A respectable president. Just so I understand correctly. I understand the proposal's advocate so that it did not cause delay in the structure of the area that is already present on Ring Road, i.e. I hear no disagreement about building up the situation that is already by Ring Lane, fixing things that need to be fixed. What I hear is, yes, they want to build a new hospital elsewhere. In my mind, I'll give myself a fos such as it's not premeditated. But what I can't figure out is how important it is to wait with this core of treatment, what that means for the health of Icelanders and for their access to health care. How much worse will she be for? That's the question I'm asking myself right now. If we are talking about a new hospital from scratch, are we talking about ten years, if we give ourselves ten to build a new hospital? Or can it be started earlier and put into use, or what? I'm not an expert in this field. That's why I'm asking. A senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u113	Mr. President. In the treatment core you are referring to, it is expected that you will have emergency receptors, imaging, operating rooms, ICUs, some rehabilitation, hospital clean, sterility, and 180 bed space when it is completed. It's a very small part of the people who are at the hospital as a whole. It's hard to tell what it would change if it wasn't built there or built elsewhere. Of course, this service would continue in the area where the Landskeeper is now the nature of the matter. However, the synergistic effect of building the therapeutic core elsewhere and then building the rest of the hospital somewhere else does not appear until the end of the entire period of construction.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u114	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a proposal for a resolution of an independent professional statistical analysis for a new national hospital. Happily, quite a number of members of the council have participated in the discussion, and it is, as it were, fine. Some adjustments have been made regarding the content of this proposal. Yet, that is how it is for one dog. A senator who came here for a talk, huh? paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, had obviously not been here for the first session of a successful review of this so-called convolutation of 2014, or the decision was adopted. It is to the senator to study all the discussions and talks that were given on that occasion and later because it clearly shows that they were not accepting a new hospital. What is being suggested here is to perform professionally, regardless of the local analysis for a new national hospital and, of course, to make the basis for this decision in its own time, to try to set it up on Ring Way, to be old, and many of it out - of - date. We've only talked about manpower and traffic, and we've had plenty of time to take it. Then, of course, there are organizational issues, how evolved. Well, who has, like, one. the growth of tourists in Reykjavík since the decision was made? How has traffic changed in Reykjavík? What's the number of cars? I know there are certain politicians who fly in their heads that cars will stop being seen in the centre of Reykjavík, that they will be in just a bus or a bicycle. Of course, that will not be the case. The city is moving more east, the middle of the ministry is moving slowly, grueling, so it would be reasonable to move at least what can be moved. There is a new hospital. Patients are often mentioned as being reasonable in this case, they are customers of this large and large hospital, but we must also ask ourselves, " What is the best way to look after them for the future? ' It is not by leaving patients at this time for a decade or more, ten, fifteen years, living in the evils that are taking place now in the Hallway or on the Ring Road. Moreover, we should not forget that since this decision was made to continue there and aim this building to become at the Circle Course, real estate rates have been multiplied and expanded in Reykjavík, especially in this area. These are buildings that can be used in a different kind of home than the one used by the hospital, or hospital, or hospital hotels, and these are incredibly valuable areas. Of course, we need to review this case from A to A, before continuing. Why not? What are they afraid of? What are the people controlling today afraid to look into this matter? Some minister here said it was dangerous. What's so dangerous about it? Is this dangerous because the decision might be different from the minister's or dozens of other ministers who have been in this office? Is it dangerous that a person may need to change his mind? Is there anything dangerous about the possibility that it would be better to do this elsewhere? But if the result is the same from these experts who have been suggested here to settle the matter, then no one needs to be afraid of anything, then there is nothing dangerous about it. We simply suggest that this standard analysis be done, and it will be completed very quickly, remembering that it is in May that it is to be completed. A respectable president. I'm going to let myself read from a story, with the permission of a president, who was published at the National Radio: ▪... The Party considers building a new national hospital on Ring Road to be a serious mistake. The party wants to appoint an independent committee with foreign experts to review the matter. ...the head of the party says that they will be checked to see if a new hospital can be built in a new location. Onwards continue, noble president: ▪... the Party announced a press conference today showing that the pack fears that there is a serious mistake at a local setting in a new national hospital. A circuit is an unfortunate location, there's a lot of activity there, and there's already no traffic control around the hospital. ▪ We find it wise to start an independent assessment, including foreign experts, to see if a new hospital cannot be built in a new place, a better place, faster and better than our current plans. We simply think it's wise, to say... the head of the party. Then there's a subheading: ◯ Now's 2016 And then from a journalist: Today, the wonder was held right by the Vifils, which the Party thinks is a good place for a new hospital. Then a reporter asks: "Now it's been said by experts that turning the project off from the Ring Road hospital would take 10 to 15 years to take it to the Whirlpool, what do you say about it? That is one of the very things that have been controversial. Experts from different sources have been arguing about this precisely. And this is one of those points that this independent committee should consider. The reporter goes on to say that former ministers all said they wanted the hospital on Ring Road and asked: "Have the sect changed their mind? " The valve has felt that this should be viewed, now for some time. The fact that these fine party members, all of us as health ministers, have been in this opinion, is no wonder. This decision and its preparation were based on opinions made here before the turn of the century. Now it's 2016. And we're about to build a hospital here that's supposed to last 40 years. Then we have to watch the situation as it is, the traffic where it is, and what future potential for health care and our national hospital should have. Then the reporter asks: "Will there be progress in the government, who will be your first step in this matter? To establish this independent group. He's due to complete his 30th April next year, to be heard by Sigurður Ingi. There was the head of the forward party in an interview with the State Radio. This is October 2016. You ask them, " What on earth has happened since then? ' But at the same time, I rejoice that this statement occurred because I can't see better than the head of the forward party intends to jump and make sure that the Central Party proposes to pass through the council and this will be checked. At the very least, the suggestion harmonizes completely with what he himself observed at this press conference. A respectable president. It's not too late to take a closer look at this. It's not too late. Of course, this indeed needs to be added to the Ring Road. But are we talking about an investment of tens or hundreds of billions in the end, so is it not wise to sit down and consider this for a long time? It's my business to start with a dozen or hundreds of billions of them and then come here on the platform and say, "We're gonna build another hospital, we're gonna start with it after 15, 20 years, we're just gonna do it then. Is it not wise to think about this a little bit more, consider the matter, come with a conclusion now in May? Then we can all stop arguing about this. I can assure you that if this committee becomes professional and independent, there is much now been made up of it here, along with experts who have no real interest in the case today, not the management of the Land Hospital, not the amount that controls this matter, we will say: All right, if the conclusion remains that the Ringway is the best option, of course, we will withdraw from this matter. But if there's anything else out of this, that it's better to build with Fos Sog, go up to the Vifils, or Kyldnaland that still belongs to the state, I hope they're not so crazy that they're going to sell it away before it's finished, then we're going to get to that conclusion and we can close the case. Because the case has not been closed. It's not that it was closed. But I regret that people come up here and have no reason to believe why you can't look at this. They just say, it's been decided. You hit your head with the stone and say, "It's been decided. You can think of horses like you saw in the movies because I'm not so old that I can remember some of that sort of tractors in Iceland, who had something in front of them so they could just see straight ahead. That's how I feel about it. Many members of the council are the ones who continue to promote this matter. They can neither look to the right nor to the left because the course has been set. Hv. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson did not answer me earlier, but I think he will come up with an answer to me, and he might now answer whether he knows that in the Norwegian house the staff of the Land Hospital stood up, called forward, and said that it would be forbidden to comment on anything other than that the Landspians should rise by Ring Road. There's a tape of this meeting. In case of a moment. Senators have not been listening to the meeting, so it is possible to watch and listen. That's what I'm wondering, my chief. President, if there's any reason to look into that matter. I think I used to say that in a speech chair. I just haven't thought about it yet or figured out the way to see if there's any reason to investigate the government at the Land Hospital. Is it really so that employees are forbidden to express themselves? It's very serious if that's the case, Mr. President, it's very serious. But I say again: There is nothing dangerous about this suggestion. There's nothing dangerous about her. There will be no delay in this. Of course, it can delay the wildest dreams of all time. Some here and Ministers here, if they find that this is crazy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u115	Mr. President. Sometimes it is that way. This is the case today when members of the panel call for an answer. I mean, about the whole thing with the silence as long as possible. A senator came in, or what he calls the silence: In fact, I brought it into my head before that I have not seen any silence in the hospital. I have not been exposed to anything from either the managers or the hospital authorities, so staff cannot comment on this matter. As we see throughout society, humans express themselves naturally as they please. Happily, this is the case. Hv. In fact, a senator asked me a little about my patients. I would like to ask him back: Is he not worried that we will turn another 10-year cycle into rolling patients between different locations of the Land Hospital while we are waiting for this assembly to stop talking about this matter and stick to decisions it has made? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u116	A respectable president. Of course, I'm worried that we can't do all of this fast enough. I'm just as worried that the patients are going to have to travel between us right now as it is today that it takes 10, 15 or even 20 years to complete the Land Hospital at Ring Road, if that's what they're going to do and go on. Of course, that's what worries you. We're in a place today where we need to build a new national hospital. Then we need to be careful, and we need to make a decision. I don't know how to do that. A senator, evaluating whether it's more serious or worse for the patients to be in noise and leave and dust and ruined houses on Ring Road than being on this bus between, I just can't. I know, however, that if we're going to look into the future, we're not going to go out on this mission on Ring Lane. Besides, I didn't ask which one. A senator would have found himself silent. I asked him if he knew the staff standing up at the National Hall meeting and talking about the silence.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u117	Mr. President. Yes, for the third time: I heard the staff who spoke at this meeting. I hope now. A senator wrote that I answered this question because I recognized this verbal debate on the part of these employees. As previously mentioned, I have not been aware of this in the hospital, I have never experienced it, but I have been relatively prominent in public discussions, both in general and in health matters. So if I had been in the hospital or in the hospital, I don't think it would have come to me at some point or would have been suggested that I shouldn't have said this or that. It's never happened. I don't know employees, except those who spoke at the hearings, who claim to have had them. In any case, I haven't been around those employees in the past, and I've worked in this hospital for almost 20 years.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u118	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. The Senator won't be able to come back to meet me, so I'm going to thank him for setting this straight. He is aware that the staff of the meeting hospital said that it was forbidden to comment or to comment on the Land Hospital in a specific way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u119	Mr. President. I was at this meeting. We were standing next to each other, sharp. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson and me. It's a memorable meeting. He started with the hospital's representative explaining these plans. I'm not gonna have any comment on that. It was certainly done as well on their part as possible, but when it was naturally clear that there was no stone on it. Then there was the viewpoint of architects, architects, and doctors. At the time of the meeting, there was a talk about what has been said for a long time, that it was not well seen by the hospital manager that these planned projects were being dealt with by his employees in a way that did not match them, but it was as if all the flood windows were opened at the meeting. [[The president calls.]] I walked out of the meeting after being there with people who had candidates and prospective senators, some of them, certainly, hearing them and clearly understanding that they would have found themselves having difficulty in the hospital if they had objected to these plans. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u120	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer or for confirming the meeting that had been held there. It is true that at the meeting, the whole situation was covered quite well. The history of claims presented by the representative of this project, i.e. The circuit project, was very neatly shot down by architects, planningists, and doctors who were there and discussed the matter. In fact, the suggestion we're discussing here is a suggestion to make one more experiment, that we go through the current selection and find out in the light of all the information presented to the community that has evolved very much since the human path. Let us see. It can't be risky to do such things, for there is no other message being sent but the fact that it is right to look at the subject more closely from the way everything has developed in the community. That's really what we're saying. Some of these things have been pointed to many times. But it is true that the discovery in the Norwegian house was quite good, well attended, and thorough.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u121	Mr. President. I have to say, it's really interesting who is present at this discussion and who is not. That is a thought - provoking point. It is important for a health minister to go forward a doctor and even a gerontologist. Of course, such viewpoints are remarkable. I am also happy to see some of the fine senators here. Iceland's advance party. But where are the lntruders? An independent party is now the largest group of governments, the class that handles the terms of government, but keeps their arms around the budget, and is expected to carry out this work. He is responsible for implementing all this huge money on a project that could involve failure and even an accident in the face of serious subsidies in the country's health services, I allow to say. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u122	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. The senator's attendance at the Assembly Hall and the location of interest. I'm not gonna get stuck in that much. But I would have liked to see the highest. A health minister in the hall during this discussion, but of course she has no obligation to do so, I make it clear. However, a more interesting discussion would have been provided if the minister had been here and discussed the matter with us. However, there will be a time, for the proposal is now being made, and it is likely to receive a very good, useful discussion. We're talking about a huge deal. We're talking about a huge investment, no matter where it's gonna be, it's a big investment, a lot of money. It would have been interesting to hear the self - appointed guardians of the state's funds participate in the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u123	A respectable president. When Pirats and I proposed a reexamination of drug policy at the time, we proposed a group of various sources. The reviews we received from our ranks were largely focused on which people we were choosing to serve in this group. Thus, we set up the surgeon general, U.S. Marshal, and office that supporters of the proposal experienced, and therefore we did not want to be part of the staff. We answered correctly that it was because these parties were at odds with which we needed them, in order to reach a conclusion that was somehow common. And while the ship did not travel very quickly to our destination, at least it would have been turned in the right direction. We did it. That's what's been delayed by the endless election, that's another story. I'll mention it because of what you're doing. A senator mentioned that he did not wish to have the land hospital administration and, as he called it, to control it. In view of this brief illustration, I wondered, " Does this have any effect on my opinion? ' It's for a senator. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u124	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the inquiry. It may well be that I have a different opinion about who should be in this group of work being suggested, I'm just gonna let myself. On the other hand, I think it is very important when talking about professional, professional, and so forth, that if such matters are to be resolved, most people would not have preconceived opinions. I don't quite remember the case. A senator is talking about, they may be similar - they may be able to be combined. I'm not sure, though. What really matters in this is, of course, engineering, planning, development, and such. Of course, it's the time program for patients and other things, how we move staff to and from to the important things. I'm gonna keep it open that this hooker I talked about could come up with this, but I just don't think it's anything special...
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u125	A respectable president. It's not a universal view. People differ in such things in general, and not only in the language I mentioned earlier, which is the Pirat drug policy, but in general, they disagree on how to approach such things. As a result, I had listened to talks here today as well. It seems that some who are in favor of this proposal, I'm on her side right now, allow themselves to be different, perhaps not different from professional enough, to find the conclusion that this choice should be revised. I hope I'm not misinformed. I'm just gonna tell you as if I've understood the talks so far. But if this is not to be the so - called moose, if this is not to be the management of the Land Hospital and such, then who is this supposed to be? That's what I was wondering. Does it not, then, require that they be foreign experts and not always be foreign experts? How can you tell? A senator will arrange for this if not in a way that these key members will be involved?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u126	A respectable president. There may be foreign experts, such as national experts. These may be doctors and nurses from Akureyri and Nes shops. There may be people who have knowledge of the health sector but who have not been very familiar with this discussion. That's what I'm talking about, that we try to make sure that those involved are mainly experts, and we measure this from what's most practical, what's the fastest, what's best in the long term, how we get the most out of the project we need to do. How do we ensure continued good health care during our construction, wherever it will be and where it will be done? That's what I'm saying with these words. Hv. A senator asks this argument about professionalism. No one's accusing anyone of not being professional or anything like that. What matters is that people are ready to look at it, that's what we're looking at. It takes a professional to get things done. We know that there are many people who just say: The decision has been made. Let's just stop talking about this. I don't think that's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u127	A respectable president. I was at a meeting for a New Year's Eve, where I found that building in central Reykjavík is worth at least half the cost than in a suburb. If we're talking about building a high-tech hospital on Ring Lane, and what. A senator spoke about 100 billion, talking about building one hospital, and paying for two. Then we'll pay 50 billion extra for this hospital. If that's true, then there's gonna be enough money to stop a hospital building on Ring Lane because we can't afford to throw 50 billion extra or twice more money into this kind of project, except that it's going to be very difficult for those who have to work there. It has been observed that working downtown is very difficult because there are so many demands to get things done.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u128	A respectable president. I think that in general it is more expensive to build in the middle of the world as it is than being able to get plenty of land space and freedom to perform itself and its likes, that there is no need to consider dust or heavy transport, noise and all of it. I don't know the numbers, how much more. We know, though, that there has been a tremendous increase in real estate prices in Reykjavík and in that area, weights of greater value than they were two years ago. The same applies to real estate. So I don't think there's anything wrong with going in the least, counting these things and sizeing them all back up again. I also think that based on the descriptions you have heard from experts who know about such buildings, traffic, and so forth, people in the neighborhood, not necessarily along the streets of the hospital, but in the vicinity, will complain bitterly about what is coming. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u129	A respectable president. A person who was discussing these things is building in the downtown center. He said it was difficult to work there, mostly because of the arrival, to get material on the spot and get things out of there. Besides, it would also be difficult to engage in local activities because of traffic, close to other facilities, and the like. There has been another source of concern for me in this regard, i.e. ... thatwe'vegetoutofanadvisor right now, but it's all gone wrong. It's starting to leak. Her dress doesn't work. There was a problem with her. When you start talking about a leak problem, and it's not even starting to be used. Someone immediately pointed out that there could soon be fungal problems in the future. It scares me because my old houses have fungal problems. It seems to be a mess somehow. I'm worried that this mess just keeps going.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u130	A respectable president. Of course, if the conclusion is that man continues his work on Ring Road, we hope it will go well. For example, a huge amount of material has to be transferred from the place to and from the place. The one that had it. A senator may well have more knowledge of this than the one standing here. But since then, experience has taught them what it says, after being in a rural administration and deciding to build an old building, that once you go out there, you better know the muppet tablet well because it's going up, it's all going to change. It seems like no matter how well you try to prepare the project, there's always something you can't expect, unless you're so awesome when it comes to this round-way project to assume that everything is expected. Hv. paritaprevir The story of fleeing from the molds and halfhearted houses here in the city of the past few years was illustrated by Davíð's wife's son Gunnlaugsson. There, however, it seems to have some other reference.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u131	A respectable president. First, thank you for the interesting discussion that has taken place here today. Like so many discussions, it becomes more interesting as the discussion continues. I thought it was nice to hear a speech from what I heard. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, who is opposed to the proposal we're discussing here, because I feel there's a little bit of a matter to be said during the discussion. But who knows if it's OK with 2nd? I must admit that I am far from an expert on this matter. There are a lot of things behind what people talk about here that I just don't know, but I've listened enough to the discussion and read me about the history of the case in order to think I can hold that short talk. Then I'm going to start by reading Pirata's policies in the category on the location of a new Land Hospital adopted on March 27, 2016. It's as if it's not exaggerated by many of our other policies. By permission of the President: There will be an open, professional, local analysis of the main locations of the new Land Hospital in the capital area. Results will be provided to help identify the individual assessments as well as the overall assessment of each location. When evaluating individual locations, the people will be assigned to choose between the best in a careful survey or national law. As I said in those votes, I object to keeping national pay, except when the people or the voters themselves ask for it. I don't believe that national pay is some kind of device that politicians should use to make an extra point in the discussion or to draw attention to their interests. I'm taking it straight across to the political parties. Happily, however, the policy of choosing between the best options is either for a national bill or by providing a careful study, which I think is much closer to. It's like divulge of Pirata's policy that I agree with it and I'm all for it. It takes a lot to change my mind about that, it would have to be something that would make me bend away from what my team has decided, e.g. Pirat's groundwork or public interest or something like that, I can give a chance, but I'm not convinced yet. All this discussion seems to have disagreements on the facts. Factual differences in life generally seem very interesting to me. It is not very interesting, in itself, that we disagree about values, attitudes, or approach, or methodology or anything like that, but when we disagree on the facts, I feel that it must be possible to find out. That's why it's so interesting when it doesn't seem to be the case. I've heard examples, including. To this day, reports indicate all more or less to Ring Road. But others say that it is wrong. There must be a fact question I can't answer here, but it's interesting. There seems to be also facts regarding the effects of waiting to build the therapeutic core. It may also be that there is some unacceptable negative impact on the bioavailability of Icelanders to health care. That's one of the things I just don't know well enough to judge right now, but it's interesting that there's a disagreement at this point. I'd like to mention one thing that's only been close to today, actually a little bit, that's the attitude of the individual senators on the work that has already taken place. Hv. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson covered the report only, in particular, 4 mg. It seems to me. I read the opening words of the report, with the permission of the president: The aim of this proposal is to make an independent professional local analysis for the new national hospital. A professional statistical analysis is needed to see where it was most practical and best to build a new national hospital. Then it goes on. I see that it can be read so that in some way it is being minimized to the work already done, i.e. that it is not professional or that it is made out of some other motive. You can read it that way. But it doesn't have to be read that way, and I choose not to. Still, it sounds like a little talk, but it doesn't seem like a little bit. I'm not quite clear where people are going to position themselves with motivation and professionalism for the work that has already been done. Happily, though, there seems to be no disagreement about professionalism; it seems to agree on what is good. I do not need ulterior motives or unscrupulous tactics in order to believe all kinds of mistakes on the blessed system and all sorts of senseless decisions. There's plenty to take. I wouldn't have volunteered for this group if I trusted the system too much because we're here to a great extent because we don't think the system is possible and I don't have enough money to solve many modern problems. It is easy to make mistakes, especially when trust is based on a suit, style, and style of speech. Well, that's another story. I'd like to discuss a few words that have been said about the alleged silence in the group. We've got senators standing up here, just like what they're doing. paritaprevir 6th. Southwestern district, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, described it when people actually stand up at a meeting and tell us that they had gone into trouble. When that happens, I find it extremely difficult to ignore it because if people experience it, it's quiet. Maybe no one was going to silence it, but if people tell it about it like this, I can't see better than that they must be true, regardless of whether there is a purpose in any of the words of a boss and his will or not. Besides, I think we live in a fearful, quiet community, which is actually not what I would first think of reading the system of the media or talking on the Internet in general if it has gone away, but I still think the silence is an amazingly established part of our historical culture. I have no problem believing that she is involved in this matter, considering how hot and intense the situation is. That's why our health system is involved, so it's not weird. I just want to review the council resolution that was approved on May 16, 2014, which we only talked about earlier and I talked to you about. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. I looked it up while it was still there. A senator gave his speech, wanting to think that it is the right thing to say that the original proposal, as it was proposed, was discussed by a new land hospital on the Ringway. She was changed in the treatment of the council, so that those who would like a new hospital elsewhere could accept the expression. So although 56 or 57 members of Congress may remind me, I have voted with that suggestion, including the sharpness. paritaprevir The Sigmundur over Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson, and indeed all in attendance, I find this to be no contradiction to this proposal. I'd like to keep it up because it didn't seem quite clear to me during our discussion earlier. I'm partly responsible for that. There's something else I'd like to mention, but I think it's a little too much in this discussion that they're trying to catch up on senators and suggest that they have some ugly opinions. It is attempted to catch up with members of the council who are in favor of this proposal and suggest that they want to delay an obligatory task. Similarly, it is attempted to catch the others and to say that some 100 billion people just fail or that they have opinions that are in some way unacceptable. In the organizational issues of this matter, when it comes to everything, I think it's a little strange that so much there's an accusation on the subject, except perhaps on the basis of how long this case has been under discussion and how tired people must feel that they need to repeat themselves, which is very annoying to the length of time, I now know it the most human being. But the second last thing I'd like to mention is that when it comes to the question of who to choose for the job, I think it would be good for the case that there were foreign experts, although I'm not necessarily signing a suggestion that there's too many experts involved in this or whatever, I just don't know it. If I say exactly as I am, a respectable president, I don't really care. I just want to solve the problem. I don't feel like finding out what it is for everyone to teach all the time. A solution would be to have foreign experts, but this isn't the first hospital ever built in a city. Most important, I'd like to mention one in the seconds that I have left. I would like to experiment briefly with people who have knowledge of the subject, but perhaps a few experience in reasoning them out. I'd like to ask them to contact me because I want to experiment with a site that is about putting reason into the system. It's kialo.com and it's a foreign experiment, very interesting stuff. I think it's something so ideal for me to take advantage of where we can evaluate evidence in or against it and analyze it in a very pleasant and graphic way. [[The president calls.]] I guess I don't have any more time to talk about it. But if there are people who are experienced in reasoning on this matter, I would be inclined to contact me in order to participate in that experiment. [[The president calls.]] I think it could be fun at least, if not just useful.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u132	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to correct a law on income taxes, no. 90/2003, the lack of tax returns in pension. My importers are Sæland Gaand, Karl Gauti Hjaltason and Ólafur Ísleifsson. The suggestion is that we're at 28. The law adds up to the new number, as follows: 1.mg. Count 9. 2 mg. 10th par. Law on social assistance.How many people do you think you're talking about? The bill suggests that the cost of pensions, which cannot be paid or added otherwise, is provided to a pensioner who cannot earn money without it, as 1 mgr. Count 9. Law on Social Help, No. 99/2007, as well as a supplement to the motor impairment of sensibilities between sensibilities and microenergy support for driving vehicles, such as 2 mg. 10th par. the same law, let them be free of tax laws on income taxes, No. 90/2003. If we look at 1st. Count 9. Law on Social Help, No. 99/2007, this is the expense of household assistance or of other public members who do not pay. There's also the cost of medicine and medical bills from the purchase of headphones that don't pay health insurance. There's a rent cost in there too. The storage costs in residence homes, institutions as well as contaminants and in-houses that have been authorized by the Ministry or run similar activities are below and electricity costs due to oxygen consumption. Improvements in motor vehicles as indicated by 2 mg. 10th par. Law on social assistance, it's also underneath. In contrast with the disability of life, such compensation is not to improve the loss of pay because of lack of employment, but to meet the special expenses of a pensioner. Clearly, that goal is not achieved if much of the compensation is taken into account. In addition, her definition of taxable income has a chain effect, causing other compensations for low - paying pensioners, such as housing, special housing support, and child support. What, then, are we referring to in this context? We're talking about strengthening. An example of a car's strength can be illustrated by a 15 - year - old car. K. which is usually the strength there. That's five you have to pay for. K. I'll tax you. That's 10 up. K. left. The total revenues that come out of this are about 180 fars. K. In a year that goes on as microenergy pensioners and older citizens or pensioners have their heads. This affects housing, special housing benefits, and child - welfare benefits. It's not just 5 of you. K. The tax that comes in there is a weakness that people often don't realize. You have a feeling that you are creating a relief system where we are going to pass some strength that really needs to be used, especially for example. In medicine, with the left hand, but with the right hand let us tear it off. And what may be the scariest is that you've ever seen an example of being torn apart with your right hand so badly that people fall into pieces, people lose the weight of accepting this kind of strength. Then I ask, Is it the law of the Generals to have such a law? Why are we at the head to strengthen people to buy drugs and other things if they harm people? Based on information acquired by transporters, 1,245 individuals received a total of 203 million. K. 2016 for improvement as determined by 1 mg. Count 9. songs on social assistance paid off 46 million of them. K. on income tax. There were 5,750 individuals who received a total of over 1 billion improvements at 2.mg. the same articles that paid from that total of 229 million. K. on income tax. We're talking about 280 million. K. I'll tax you. Thus, the wealth will not be due to serious tax returns. In contrast, many pensioners who have a high cost of disability or disease felt significant about the change. If we look at only how this will take place, we will find the government's expenses for the first group of 1,245 individuals, some 203 million. When it comes to the automobile scholarships, the supply for automobiles, there are 3,255 pensioners, 2,489 donors, and six micropower workers. These are a total of 5,750 individuals. This income is of great importance to these individuals. We must realize that improvements in social assistance laws do not improve the loss of pay. This term means a lack of skills and ability to work because of sickness, disability, or accidents, as is the case with Deuteronomy. Implementation protocol No. 50/1993. Accordingly, microenergy pensions depend on improving the loss of pay due to reduced work capacity. Thus, microenergy pensions and income insurance are in accordance with social security laws based on reduced work capacity. Pays made by an individual on the basis of the law No. 99/2007, however, of social assistance, is completely different. They are not in terms of pay or compensation for the loss of the pay; they are compensations to meet specific expenses based on specific circumstances. By improving and strengthening and other payments to cover the costs of disease and disability, impairment or certain taxable circumstances, the person initially needs them only about 60% of the compensation that has been assessed for the cost. But this 60% remuneration is not correct because it impairs other benefits, insurrections, special housing support, all the benefits marked by income in microenergy pensioners are impaired somewhere. It's a chain impairment system. That's why it's a terrible thing to be paid so strong that you never see what the consequences are, what they get, what happens to the person, and what happens to the person. I can take the example of rent money. At one time, I got 30 points. K. in rent rent a month when I was renting rent. Then I fell into 15 of yours. K. and then down to zero. What happened there? Yeah, my pension fund went up. But when the pension funds went up, I dropped from the government's insurance agency. My visit became no greater than this transfer resulted in the disappearance of the rent. Why was that? Because the upsurge in pensions would cut the rent money, but the improvement in the payment of a insurance company would not. For a person in a situation similar to that of me, but who had no pensions, his rent was not reduced, they increased. He went up to 50 up. K. and into 70 you. K. In the end, people with pension funds were punished in themselves so cruelly that they were even lost at 50,370 yous. K. per month. Such a system is incomprehensible, that it has such a system to buy drugs and even electrical costs for oxygen use. This is incomprehensible in this context if we consider what is underneath when we talk about taxes. In the 28th C.E. track No. 90/2003, about income taxes, are sports, they're not taxes. But drugs are taxes. Oxygen and electricity to oxygen levels are the taxes. The rent cost that goes beyond the rent is taxed. If we can have a scholarship, which is very good for not being taxes, surely this should be in there and not be the tax. As also says in parre 28th, on what does not count: Docks, sr. law on housing benefits, and special housing support... Strengthens from labour responsored funds based on the work-replacement laws and the work-replacement services that are involved in the cost of rehabilitation, health care and the specific services of professionals. The secretary sets up a regulations for the further implementation of this law. It's simple, we should change it. Especially in the context of the fact that this takes very little and also in the context that it is so badly done. We have to realize that in this system there is something strange about it. We never realized when you live in this system what your income is. A person received a certain income every month, and then, on July 1, that impairment day, the Great Dreading Day, was August 1. Then the damages will come. What was the most strange thing about them was that they were never broken apart. You didn't know what it was that made you earn less money. I was at some point digging into it, and there were some of the most amazing things that were cutting your income, and that's when you have to pay back. To be in this situation that many have been in, and I've experienced myself, getting zero on the bill from the state insurance agency for a year because I had made money somewhere at the beginning of my disability from a pension fund, after three years, which caused me to get zeros for a year. With children at home, and they didn't know about it. It's a lot of people getting in this situation. It's still going on today. That's why I say, we have to jump up this system, and this is just a little step, a little step, in it, a chicken step to change this system, how it's corrupted, and how it's set up. I hope this goes through and will be the first step in making the system righteous and starting to do what it is supposed to do, being humane and being for the people who need it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u133	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for an excellent speech and for this matter, which I believe, is the best. Hv. A senator, in fact, partially answered his last sentence here in the Sermon on the Mount, but I'm still going to give it to me. The question that was breaking through in my head was, " Isn't this just a chicken step? Isn't this just one of the very limited things being changed here that actually need to be modified and corrected from all this interaction, impairment, and such? It's prized with a left and punished with a right, like a beard. A senator expressed it or implied it earlier. That's why I want some sleep. A senator to tell me that this is just one step in a number of people who need to step in order to make our system more righteous. You've heard these stories, seen examples of what you feel is unfair in all of this. However, it is a privilege to hear such a clear, clear explanation. A senator did here. The question, part of which has been answered earlier, remains whether this is not just one of the many steps we need to take.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u134	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question. Yes, after living in this system for almost 27 years, I now need to witness how long I have lived in this system, I have called this criminal punishment system. I don't think there's anything you can do except reset this system and start over. It's been static, so I don't think there's any more to make up for it. Not without punishing them somewhere else. I was on the Social Security Review Committee at the time when an expert came from the State Insurance Institute and I thought he would know all about this system. It struck me when he said: "There is no one who knows all about this system. In effect, we have a computer, which says, "No. " It's very hard to start reasoning with her. Once we get to the point where there's no human being who can monitor this and accept this system, we should say, "Here and no farther." Stop, we're going to start over. And then create a system that makes it okay to get medicine levels. Because those who get this strength to buy a drug need it. They have a huge cost of drugs, I think about a ridiculous cost. I say for my part: It's hard enough to be sick, enough to have to have to take all these medications, but it must suck to not have money to live. What, then, is the point of giving all the drugs, the strength, if they are to be unable to survive financially?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u135	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the matter and for the speech. I'd like to ask you what. The senator, however long fought for this particular change. In case of a moment. A senator can go something into the story behind this. There's a reason I'm asking this. From the moment I sat here for the first time in 2013, I have heard a lot of stories, and people have even sent you information about the sums and the like. It has proved to be, certainly, at that time and almost always, completely impossible to understand the problem facing me. I have never had to use this system, so I do not feel it on my own and have to gain knowledge through others. As I've come into this party more, the more I can see how hard he is and what he's been saying over and over again. You have heard of a cent in front of a coin for months, yet you did not associate with what was being said. And much less solutions. Indeed, you cannot find solutions under these circumstances. That's why I'm asking. Is this something a natural? A senator or others have known about this for a very long time? Then how long? Has this been suggested before with members of Parliament? I'm asking because I'd like to have these ideas that come from the people who use the system, people like him. A senator, or he's used it at least, would not make the way into this council. I like that the group of the people is here at the General Assembly to present these matters. But this should not be necessary. It's supposed to be a streamlined process of making such simple changes. I'll take this for a change, just so I'll say it. Which is why they ask: Who is the leader of this matter, or how old is it? How long has this been tried to get to somewhere?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u136	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for these questions. How old is this? This is from the moment I came into it. My first impression of this system was that when I was in my accident and became an invalid, my wife was refused to work. She can't work because if she went to work, my benefits would be impaired. I went to the ASI convention and other things and fought for the change. And this was changed, fortunately. But the change was not greater than that, so it has come back. Illusions to spouses are back. There's been a struggle for changes in this system all along. What may have destroyed the whole system is that it has not been taken completely and reset and has started over again. They're always being added to the system. We know that if you're building a house, you're gonna have to build it by certain rules. You don't just build something here and something there, it'll never stand. This system is thus built. Ideas are just thrown into it: Yes, let's just strengthen this category, strengthen the drugs, let's put this coin to strengthen the medication. You just put it in one place in the system, but then you forget to take into account that because it's your income, it's all your income. If you live in this system, all your income will depend on. Everything called income is going to be reduced. That's why these crowns and penalties are so incomprehensible. When the system has become so incomprehensible that no human power, no human power, understands it, and can calculate it, we should say, "Here, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And just start right away and bring a new system.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u137	A respectable president. I'm not going to start by saying that I'm not going to extend this discussion because, of course, you're using it all the time, as famous has become. But I have to come up and thank you for this bill, thank the people for this bill, as well as the attention that the group shows the category and ambition that it shows by presenting a case to fix the system. It's like I went over my answers to why. I have been joined by members of Congress before, since I first sat here, with reports about countless problems and problems that I had no understanding at all. Now I have some insight into various aspects of this system, but like what. A senator, correctly mentioned to me, does not understand this system completely. It is thrilling to say that at some point we were told that there was one person in the country who understood the system. At that time, we had a meeting on a welfare committee, but she said she did not fully understand it. So it turned out that there was one person who separated the system from A◯S. It doesn't seem so. I personally became interested in the social security system in sending in what I thought was rather innocent inquiry. She turned to the complaint I had heard very often at the time, because in 2009 there was no longer any connection with the rise in the rates of the index consumer prices from the crash. This was something the AGS demanded of us to prove that we were serious about cleaning up after the crash, but it's a long, boring story and all that. This was done, and it was normal for people to disagree with them. I sent a request to find out what would have cost the State if the 2009 change had not been made. The answer was on six pages, and in a language that I simply didn't understand. I took an evening and reviewed it, and I found words I didn't know and wrote them down. I cannot quite remember how many words there were, 12 or 13, which I did not understand and had to look up to get some understanding. I had a limited understanding of the case then, but the first thing I saw was that the system is so complicated that it can be said that the complexity itself is a monster of the system. It seems to me that the biggest and worst problem with the system is how complicated it is and how many ways it can affect people. When we try to change it in some specific way, if there are significant changes, a large group of people suffer. Hence, when we see adjustments that cost our money or that cause income loss, it is the only predictable result, that the change does not have a negative impact on any group. That's why I loved it when it happened. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson proposed his inquiry, which originated at the grassroot of Pirata, with the members of Pirata, who wrote the inquiry. There we asked how much money it would cost to stop cutting down social insurance on various types of incomes and to get a very good answer and benefit. As a result, the direction and proposal that we proposed for a discussion about the communal population, changes in various laws by means of a financial bill, was made to stop cutting social security pay to seniors on the basis of employment. Then came this great convocation from the people who had the same content. There was an offer to fix something that didn't affect anyone. I hope that thing gets through. I look forward to more reasoning and representing the people in the good and important matter, perhaps in some private private opinion, but in my view of a grossly harmless case with the state's funds. At any rate, the increase in expenses will never be so that it will not pay. That's for damn sure. But then comes the suggestion. She also has the joy of not being affected by any group. There are two other primes submitted by the Pirantics, which also have its origin at Pirata's grassroot. There is a route that really costs more than is human because it is not intended to harm anyone. We'll get into it a little bit if we're going to simplify the system, if we're going to change it somehow, but without the cost of an unorthodox amount of money, it's gonna have to end up with some group of people. We find ourselves in such a situation over and over again. This is one of the problems that came up with the simplicity of the pension system at the end of 2016 when, as famously puts it, a vacation market was taken away by the leading routes. That change was good for some, others bad. But the good thing about that change, with full respect for all those who received less money after it, was that it simplified the system. I mean, she simplified the campaign, the debate in it. We could talk about this system, or the marked part of it, in some way that the voter understood more and less. It is still very difficult to deal with disability and all disability - related issues. As soon as you say income insurance, most people have lost their way, except the people who know her by themselves. And even those people don't necessarily have it figured out, like what. A senator described earlier, which surprises the people how their payment is affected, a disciplined position that I find hard to imagine what it's like to be in. It's a terrible situation, and we shouldn't let it pass. There are other things in this system that we should try to eradicate in my opinion. There are things like mate connections and the phenomenon of asking whether people live with others, asking about personal situations. I feel very uncomfortable that such questions will or will have a profound effect on people's income. I've been working as a programmer all my adult life, and I never lost my salary in finding a mate. My pay was never reduced by living with someone I've often done, just because it's reasonable financially, and also because I liked them, and it was really fun and really fun to live with them if they did. I object to the fact that personal matters govern the most important things in the financial world. But we will again face this challenge: How do we make the change without any group being affected? This is one example. I asked that for some time ago, and probably the answer is out of date now in view of the changes in the system since then, how much it would cost to drop out of housing, but so that none would suffer, people would be raised, which would not say that housing would just go away but would be like everyone had it. I don't remember exactly what the answer was, but there was something about 81⁄210 billion, which is a substantial amount. It's never easy to say that it's too much or too little of that language, but I think it's important that when we make adjustments, we try to reduce things like attacking people's private lives and asking who they live with and what they do. I find that very uncomfortable, to say no more. I'm a little out of business. I welcome this bill, and especially the good sign of not bringing anyone down. This is not a change that affects anyone. When we find these opportunities that cost a fortune in relation to our government funds, we should use them and make adjustments. As you understand from my speech, I agree with the case and hope it will pass through, like the rest of the group's fine discourses by the group.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u138	Mr. President. I won't extend the meeting very much in view of the late date, but as one of the transporters, I'd like to say a few words, perhaps a bit of a trial. 1st transporter went very thoroughly over the bill, but before the further being held I must thank the oar. paritaprevir The Helgi Hransson's Hrafn Gunnarsson's speech was marked by the all - important information he has been familiar with because of his work. How important and satisfying it is to have such a powerful helper in the struggles we are here to put us to the test! There are also other fine senators. The main point of this matter is that we are dealing with payment for people who, in most cases, are determined outside the social security framework. They are determined on grounds of social assistance laws. There is a difference in the amount of payment involved. This is a type of improvement or support. The reason for this was the case with a 1st transporter. But it is similar to social security benefits that are intended to cover the loss of income because of loss of energy, disability, and so on. This issue, which is not large in its nature, draws out the environment of which we are dealing with the people we are dealing with here, is really finished. A person in a position to accept disability supplements, such as those given here, on the basis of social assistance laws, cannot be shaken by any other than having to endure severe financial punishment. The financial punishments are shown to diminish all sorts of compensations and benefits like whatnot. 1st trucker went so thoroughly into his talk. Likewise, there is reason to mention the great inconsistencies in this legal environment. To illustrate: One of these is payment on headphones; one of these is electrical use due to the use of oxygen. Such wages are rendered as income to a person involved, and they are subjected to other legal payments. I allow me to say that the Council has a specific opportunity to bring justice to the people involved. I allow me to hope for broad support and to see it through.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-30-18.u139	A respectable president. I have an importer for this bill for changes aimed at righting a lot of disability and pensioners in this regard. We in the people's Trackers view this bill as one of the first steps to attack the unjust systems of micro- or pensioners and it's just one of the first steps. This is to cancel the taxation of the sponsorship that part of this group is able to cover the costs of genuine expenses they have because of their illness or disability, taxation on the sponsors they pay for their expenses. So this bill is, in effect, a correction of certain mistakes that must have occurred. This is hardly a factor of 7 YOU. ... aman. And not only are these taxes taxed in such unfair ways but they also have another effect, since they are viewed as the income of those who receive them. It has a chain effect on compensation, such as child - welfare and housing improvements, as well. This has a chain effect. Is that fair? No. We are here speaking for a pure justice. Thank you. paritaprevir His special interest in this matter is Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson. Of course, I would have liked to see more senators here in the hall, perhaps some of those who on contending days want to talk beautifully to the poor. We're only members of the Philly and the Central Party, except for the highest. Of course it's a president.
