ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u1	I want to draw attention to what. All councilmen believe we have a guest at the Assembly Hall today. The president of the Swedish Parliament, Urban Ahlin, is at the council, along with the Swedish embassy. The president of the Swedish Parliament is here visiting the General Assembly Hall, in connection with a public visit to Iceland, at the invitation of the President of the Generals. I would like to welcome the president of the Swedish Parliament, Urban Ahlin, to the General House and I expect his visit to Iceland to strengthen further the fine ties between our countries. Allied witnesses of the president of the Swedish Parliament and of the Swedish nation of Israel are friends and respect. Wait a minute. All the councilmen, that they should answer my words, that they should stand up from their seats. - [[Senators rose from seats.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u2	Mr. President. It is inevitable to arise here in order to discuss the relationship and communication of the Generals at the highest level. Minister of Justice. Painting equipment at the top. Ministers of the past few days of their responsibility and of the General's in connection with the order of a court judge have some conflicting issues, and they must raise many questions about the matter of information ministers to the council. V.E.G. In his defense, a minister has chosen to place all responsibility on the council rather than accept the responsibility as it should. Now it's been found to be the highest. A minister ignored the counsel of government officials because her understanding and expertise told other things. Let's just leave it alone. However, a planned method is not to inform the council at any stage that there are significant doubts about its practice and methodology within the board of this major matter that concerned the order of 15 judges in a new court of law. Mr. President. Is this to be accepted by Congress?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u3	Mr. President. No written data have come to our level, suggesting that any expert inside or outside the Board of Directors has recommended the highest level. Minister of Justice to take the course she took in preparing for the order of a high court court. No Ministry officer, no official, no lawyer, no government specialist, agreed to the Supreme Court. Minister of Justice, that handing out judges without thorough investigation and clear support would be permissible. If so, at the highest station there was no alarm signals. Minister of Justice? Why didn't she tell us about it? If not, if any of the highest. The minister of justice sought counsel agreed with her legal interpretation, why was it not written? No memos, no e-mails, nothing. Is this work acceptable, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u4	A respectable president. A group of people stress careful and professional management. The people were not one of the political parties that the Minister of Justice discussed with them the proposal of a judicial hearing and, according to their own report, the proposals would never be agreed unchanged for the council. I would like to reflect on how such matters are best for the future, and it is clear to me that the present system of things is not acceptable for various reasons. First, there are obvious failures on the jury assessment system, which many have pointed to and do not need to point out that if the ratings are rolling by two, three points in one menu, the order of those on the list changes considerably. This is particularly interesting, since some food items seem to be rather random, such as contracts and contracts and Senate administrations, where all applicants get the score of ten, even if some have never been involved. I would also like to point to the arrival of the Generals, whom I have serious doubts about. It is obvious that in general, as the situation in politics in Iceland has been, a sitting minister of justice will have the support of a more political body if he suggests a change of order in office; otherwise, it inevitably led to a government crisis. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u5	Mr. President. There was no prerequisite for an election that a minister had received much counsel that her way was not well qualified. There was no pre-election that a minister had violated the law under the Supreme Court. There was no prerequisite for the election that a minister had created hundreds of millions of damages to taxpayers, but the obligation was first expressed in the court of the Supreme Court that failed after the election. Mr. President. This case is a test of Iceland's restoration after the collapse. Are we still stuck in the preconceived bikes where cousinry and arbitrary ministers are commonplace? Or have we come forward because such practices fail to cope and bring natural political consequences? Is the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter failing on her first test?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u6	President. I don't see how working together as a minister can be successful for the government and the government, who can completely ignore all the advice of the experts, the advice of my section, the counsel of the members of Congress, and do what they want to do without any responsibility. I think it's very serious, and I don't understand how we should continue without the highest degree. A minister is really responsible for ignoring all voices and deciding that she is an expert who can do things the way she pleases. So? Shouldn't she resign when it turns out it was just nonsense?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u7	A respectable president. The decision by the Minister of Justice not to comply with the advice of a qualified committee to the order of a court of law was illegal. The decision was not to be taken lightly, nor was it taken lightly on the basis of the evidence. According to the court case, the judges in question were a stumbling block, and at the same time, the minister of justice disagreed with our decision. Let us only hold that opinion as Minister of Justice. A minister disagrees with the decision of the Supreme Court and thus also the decision of the district. Consider how serious it is that a minister of justice can simply say that he disagrees with the Supreme Court's decision and gets away with it. If a minister of justice gets away with it without consequences, why can't all others who are judged in the Supreme Court or any other court case that is said to be the same as avoiding responsibility for wrongdoing? The case is very serious. We must not lose sight of running after one explanation after another. This explanation by the minister of justice, ◯bara, is truly serious.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u8	V.E.G. President. This apparently organized situation on the part of members of the administration board is very peculiar, considering that the issues presented here are still being discussed in the Board of Directors and Control Committee, that I thought. I thought there would be some continuation next week, even if the committee might step aside while other factors are being considered in this matter. Of course, much of this can be said on the subject of longer discussions but is taking place here in discussions about the work of the council. First, though, it should be noted that there are differing opinions about the court's judgment, but according to the court order, of course. That's what matters. In this case, an invalid requirement was refused, a damage requirement was refused, but the conviction of a misdemeanor, which will, of course, be paid 700,000 to each one in these two cases. The highest charges. The Minister of Justice, I believe, is completely unfounded. If you've observed and listened to the discussion that took place on a board of administration and surveillance committee yesterday and you've got a minister's explanation, you should take care of their words in this discussion here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u9	A respectable president. During the last days, it has been seen in the case we discussed that not only did a minister take note of the counsel given to professional people who know the subject and the career but it did not allow them to be informed by the Senate. So it's a natural question: If these are the tactics we're going to pass on, where are we going to get out of here?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u10	Mr. President. This case is very sad and really sad, especially in view of the high expectations of this new court, and many were waiting for it. The Supreme Court has spoken and passed judgment on the transfers of the Minister of Justice. The decision's conclusion is clear: The minister took a false step at Article 10. Government law. As the court also states, he rejects the Minister's defense that the Council is a decision - making authority in the case, not a minister, where ministers only give names approved by the Council and order to the president of the United States. V.E.G. Sadly, the prime minister, who is not present at this discussion, has expressed himself in this matter, and I have been very disappointed in it. I can't believe it's the highest. Prime Minister approves of these privileges.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u11	Mr. President. A case of the highest order. Indeed, a minister of justice and how they have developed raises questions, especially about ethics and trust. V.E.G. A minister changes the decision of a judge's order to the court, asking them why. Councilmen who supported the existing government to confirm their order. The members of the Parliament did so, trusting the minister who served as their representative. V.E.G. A minister had been advised to do things in a way that was different from what she did but did not let the members of the council she had requested to support her. They feel disgruntled by members of Congress, thinking that the minister has betrayed his trust, but others have a sledgehammer. Councilmen run to the gap and want to the top. Minister of command, please. Councilmen of the forward party and the left greener, apparently wanting to give the responsibility to the council rather than to the minister. Of course we, Mr. President, must discuss this together, the council members and the President of the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u12	V.E.G. President. Of course, we have a problem. It is clear that a minister has been judged by the highest court of the country. To me, it's a prince thing. I've asked the highest. Prominently speaking, when is a serious offense enough for a minister to accept responsibility? I have not received any answers from the prime minister. It's clear to the highest. The minister of justice has held this matter very unfashionably. I don't think that's going to hide anyone. It may be said that in some cases the minister had a double story, but I think it must also bear in mind that a minister has a responsibility, a minister is entrusted with responsibility. It is not possible to say to a minister at the same time that he must apply some committee in a town but still carry the responsibility. But the minister of this matter was badly successful and was judged for his way of handling matters. That's what I think of the main thing, Minister who has been condemned can hardly sit in the shelter of the Alleglans. Of course, he can if it's just okay with those generals who defend them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u13	A respectable president. There's so much to tell you about. Minister of Justice that she disagrees with the court, but she will not argue with the judge. She claims to be responsible but gives the responsibility to the council. V.E.G. A minister cannot even admit the mistake. Then we must ask ourselves here in committees and in the Generals' service, every time it's the highest. The Minister of Justice points out a suggestion that is of interest to members of the Parliament: Should the minister always question everything he says? Should we always be asking what the experts said? Should we always be in those footsteps? This is the result of the highest. The minister of justice has responded to this event. She shows no repentance, not that she even understands that it was a mistake - not a dispute with the judge, but she disagrees with the court. What's going to happen? Minister of Justice to do the next? It is the ultimate premise of trust, when people make any sort of mistake, whether it is a lawbreaker or different, that they admit, at all, the mistakes, and make small efforts to change in the future. We don't get any of that. Political responsibility, a respectable president? What a load of shit!
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u14	A respectable president. A council is under oath for the office of Ministers of Justice in a state of dishonour. By permission of a president, I quote an article written on January 30 by Ragnar The Aðalsteinsson, one of the country's most respected legislatures. That's where he says, by permission of a president: ▪ The Assembly failed its duties in a serious way. The Executive Director did not take care of his surveillance role. The General didn't control the authority of the European Commission, but supported false decisions. I believe that there's a good lawyer walking a long way because I think the Council has provided Justice Minister by means of his decision in good faith despite everything. The Council simply did not have the information it needed in this case to make intelligent decisions regarding the appointment of judges. The General did not have information about the great and clear warnings that officials had faced in this case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u15	A respectable president. Last night the Minister of Justice threw the responsibility for the order of a court judge in the State Court at the General Assembly. But each senator is bound to his convictions. When the case of a judge's order of the land rights came to the Generalis, some members of the council decided to trust that a minister had submitted professional work and carried out his research duties. Others were less convinced. Since then, it has been found that not all the details were received from a minister. Missing, e.g. ... thatthegeneraldconcerningsfromthe Ministry would be subject to the council. They should have been brought in to council members. By keeping information from the General Assembly, the minister is in a superior position to other members of Congress when it comes to votes. A minister is also a senator, and in this matter she paid, as a senator, a vote against bringing the case back to the minister, to be expected the only senator who had knowledge of the critical details of the experts. Since a minister was the only senator who had this information, is not all the responsibility she places upon her own shoulders at the General Assembly?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u16	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir A year's Ármannsson farm said here in a pit just before: After the court order is passed. Yes, it can be said, but the damage is done. In spite of the failure of a minister to comply with the order, Judge's orders remain. The system of justice is full of trust, and we stand here and do not know whether we can trust the words of a justice minister, who obviously believes that it knows better than anyone else what the right interpretation of government law is, and obviously does not need to revise how it behaves as a minister. Mr. President. This situation will not be over.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u17	Mr. President. Like other senators, I think of the best of a case. Minister of Justice. The importance of the appointment of courts does not need to be largely largely high - scale, especially when 15 judges are being reassigned, just as this article shows. So this case is a great disappointment to me, not a strong word, at the most. The Minister of Justice has not informed the council of the doubts that a number of experts had added to her for the release of the council on the Minister's proposal. I think that's a very serious way to work on the part of a minister. It should be noted that a minister is certainly allowed to give up counsel from experts, which makes a minister's responsibility for that decision even richer than others. Hence, there must be special consideration when it becomes evident that a judgment falls on the very basis of the counsel that a minister had before a decision was made.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u18	V.E.G. President. In terms of Generalis's involvement in the matter, it is quite clear that, as the law was written, the arrival of Generalis was expected to make a final outcome in this regard. Not only is it on the basis of the rule that when a minister departs from a judicial hearing's counsel, it should be carried under the General but also because of the special order of the national Court for the first time, that in all cases it should be ruled under the Council. Of course, the council is responsible for the votes presented here and for the members of Parliament who voted there. [[Up front.]] The views that have been tore up and include in e-mails within the Ministry of Justice appeared before the council, by the Board of Directors and Controls. In the management and monitoring committees, there were speculations, opinions differences, opinions that the situation should be changed. Thus, it was not new or unexpected information that this evaluable provision of Article 10. The administrative laws could be interpreted differently, and that is exactly what the issue is. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u19	A respectable president. It is clear that a minister should, of course, look to the regulations that apply to ministers. It says, if I know correctly, that a minister should seek advice on the issues he deals with and make decisions. I think it's perfectly clear that a minister would meet the exact conditions, but I don't think there's anything in the Code if a Minister needs to follow them. Of course, it is his conscience that talks there. But a minister was convicted. Then, a person's moral standards take over. The wisdom of the left green is particularly evident in all of this because their own ministers were sentenced at their time by the same court for breaking the law. Here, however, the moral apostles of the left have repeatedly stood in the public speaker's speaker and lectures about how bad they are and how bad they are, but when it comes to following the Supreme Court Court Court's decision, that's all right. Now, the V.G. will defend this Minister of Justice with his lips and jaws. You know why? This is because if he has to step aside, the prospective minister will also have to be removed because he received judgment from the same court and the fine minister of justice placed here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u20	Mr. President. I have to say, I'm amazed at the discussion here, and I'm amazed at the words. Councilmen of the Revolution have fallen. As a result, I would like to recall a statement that fell to an open meeting of resurgence and was quoted by Hanna Katrín Friðriksson in RUS, U.S.A., by permission of the Supreme Court. President: We were the ones who reassigned her [the Minister of Justice] because we had not allowed the previous list to pass on to their previous list. the number of the jury. Then the chairman of the Archipelago, Benedikt son of Jóhannesson, also spoke out correctly, with the permission of a president: ▪ We simply said that a list that didn't meet the equality goal, that we couldn't approve of it. Now I'm asking why. Councilmen at Recession: What position did they make in those declarations?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u21	A respectable president. You can learn much by listening to talks. paritaprevir Ármannsson, the annual son of a meeting because he's very good at describing some sort of legal procedure on how things work. We all know the Council voted for the proposal. We know exactly what happened. We're in a hurry. [[Up front.]] There are no facts, except from time to time. A minister of justice, which still seems not quite to have learned that it actually broke the law. But she does not intend to argue with the judge, just disagree with him, nor show any repentance in this regard. When there's some scandal in the politics, some people come here and say, "What law were broken?" It's like it's the main thing. Which is not necessarily. I can tell you which law was broken: 10. Government law. That's the way it is. Okay. Then we move on to the political responsibility. It's not just that some law was broken. Technically, we break the law when we do not attend a meeting here. That's not the main thing. The main issue here is the consequence of the law, the predictable result, the explanation, and the response. And none of these are satisfactory in any way. The minister shows no remorse. None. Do not attempt to change in some way in the future. [[The president calls.]] And then we can't trust this minister. She should see her minimum in resigning, of course, a minister's chair. [[The president calls.]] I asked myself one question. How could the highest. A minister accepts my responsibility? [[The president calls.]] What could she do less than she does?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u22	A respectable president. I am both kind and obliged to answer a good question. paritaprevir Kárason Björn's son. We already got to the top. A minister in the position of keeping his word, from earlier in this discussion, here in the House, that she believed these issues are under equality; consider the matter, criticize the proper judgment, propose a new suggestion that was supported by arguments and that Congress would be informed of these arguments and could follow an informed decision. Instead, they chose the highest. Minister, in its strength and in the knowledge that the council was, of course, the ultimate responsibility by its vote here in the hall, to conceal members of the council, members of the government as members of the Sanhedrin, for that is so. paritaprevir A year's Ármannsson farm called speculations, or opinions differences in individual e - mails, were advice, unanimous advice, and warnings from his closest colleagues and professional members from the Ministry. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u23	Mr. President. What it's all about is, you know, to the top. The Minister of Justice held records from the council. The one standing here did not support the highest order. Minister, but that did more of the council. According to what we've been told, here and there. The management board did not have information on expert warnings. Hv. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson of a year speaks of a speculation as being on a board of administration and surveillance committee earlier that the list went back to the council. That's something other than expert information, the evidence that shows the highest level. The minister of justice was advised to do something other than what she did. Even so, she asked the members of the council to whom she served to trust and accept her way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u24	Mr. President. Watchful of words, that's a good custom. To argue here that there was some attitude, and some form of spray vision, from e - mails, from the secretary's principal advisers, from the secretary's office - e - mails, some meditation, these were direct advice on how to do it. It wasn't some e - mail, it wasn't some meditation. Of course, I am very disappointed because I supported the minister of his proposal, that he has failed so badly with his trust. It's a very serious matter, and I'm certainly upset to have supported the minister and defended him here in the Senate, but then I find that she didn't bother to tell us that doubts existed from the experts of the council that the ways she was going were capable. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u25	Mr. President. It is true that the revere body stressed that equality laws apply to this order. Equal law is very clear in this context. It is a fitting first and then a sex ratio. We weren't asking the highest. Minister of Justice opposing the law. All we were asking was the highest. Ministers to make sure that equal rights are maintained, that equality laws apply to the order of the judges in this case. Have a minister, like a what? paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason comes in, at the request that it be in such a bad position that she thought she was violating the law or normal order of the court would have been slow to take it up, saying: This proposal doesn't work, my leading experts point out that it just doesn't work. It seemed to be her unanimous advice by key experts that her proposal did not work up. She did not reveal that to the council. That is the very essence of a matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u26	A respectable president. We are here to be informed of the office of Minister of Justice. That is because the matter is not only about this office as it was then but also about the work of the council and how the council should be able to trust that the minister of justice is in good faith when it presents a matter. She feels that she does not have to follow the advice of her leading specialists, and members of the council call it the advice here an e - mail within the Ministry of Justice, which shows their appreciation for it. The Senate cannot be sure that her personal decisions are not to be discussed in the future. Therefore, the Senate must always examine all its instruments and suggestions under observation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u27	Mr. President. The restoration did much more than ask for equality purposes. Resident Reunionant declared it at an open meeting, as if I previously traced, that the Council council of Antioch had reassigned the Minister of Justice with the list of signs that he would not be approved. At that time, the chairman of Recession insists that an approved order in the United States is not to be adopted unless there is an equal case between genders. Of course, in the political practicality of the moment today, people may misbehave their words in another way and refuse to recognize what was said here a year ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u28	To answer, Minister of Education and Culture, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Environment and Resource Minister and Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u29	Mr. President. In September 2016, two young trustees with Nora arrived at Seysland. They were caught in the Valley of Breindusvík, claiming that they were 16 and 17 years old. After being transferred to the local police station and interrogated, they were placed in the hands of the provincial authorities, and when they began to look for ways to get involved in the affairs of the boys, the answers were few. They were sent to a physical examination, vaccination, dating, and interviews at the Children's House. Mr. President. The conclusion from dating teeth was that the boys were to enjoy the doubt and remain in the custody of the Children's Health Committee. On December 23, 1999, the boy Husseinn's license, which has now been in custody for over 80 days in the country's prisons, was brought to the custody that is reserved for hard-necked criminals. He is in custody because he repeatedly tried to seek protection in another state, where the government decided that his friend would be protected on land instead of him. It is discussed in the law of foreigners where the applicant's advice on international protection is made which claims to be a child in the treatment of a case unless it is considered highly unlikely or otherwise pronounced by age or other means. If, in spite of age analysis, the candidate's age has not been clearly identified and the patient should be treated as a child. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister of Justice: Is it wise to consider that the Icelandic government will abandon its inhuman methods to those who are escorted to flee in accordance with appeals and advice from a number of local isolates as a foreign country?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u30	A respectable president. Hv. A senator here brings up a matter of observation at any given time and is highly regarded, not just in Iceland, but all over the world. It is the reception of the escorted children, their treatment, and their survival in the pursuit of refuge, and so forth, even though these unaided children are not applying for asylum. It is a new subject for us in Iceland to seek out individuals who state that they are children. I understand that only once came here an escorted child who realized that was very young, and was resolved at the time. But there is evidence that the number of people coming here is increasing that humans need confirmation whether there are real children, individuals who come here without ID. There is and must be such treatment for individuals who truly are children is different from those who are not children. I don't think there's any conflict in that with anyone. Therefore, it is as conclusive as possible to determine whether a person is a child or not. In the cases that had to be done in Iceland it has been a comprehensive assessment, with medical judgment, certainly, but also in other ways, such as interviews with individuals, e.g. ... ina Children'shouse. They are held in Iceland, and they have been very good examples, and they are being followed very closely by the countries around us. As far as I'm concerned, people's opinion is that they are a great role model in the event of an escorted children here and that Iceland is seen very much in this regard. It is likely that at any given time, there are other steps you need to take to make a firm decision about the ages of individuals.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u31	Mr. President. It's incredibly tragic to listen to the highest. The Minister of Justice speaks of homeless children fleeing as subjects. Somehow, it will be so amazingly far from being in prison now, in Hólmsach after transport, sitting a boy asked for a date to say that he should be allowed to enjoy the doubt. He's probably as old as he says he is. The Red Cross has strongly directed recommendations to the government to withdraw from these dates. The European Council report speaks of dating as being highly questionable. The United Nations Refugee Organization issued guidelines for dating, pointing out that there is a great scope for dating. The organization without borders around the world also says that all these studies are very questionable. [[The president calls.]] Nevertheless, the government in Iceland, with a boy in custody for over 80 days, is in custody because the Icelandic government believes he is no longer a child. I'm going to the top. Will a minister of justice be serious so that we do not treat unbelieving children as refugees? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u32	Wait a minute. Senators, watch out for deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u33	A respectable president. I don't know if it's a discussion of these matters to further my efforts to hang myself in the presentation or debate of the individual senators or of the minister here on these matters, to consider the tragic procedure I had in the previous answer when I declare it, which is just a fact, that the plain plainness of children was a new subject and was a challenge for Iceland and Icelandic administration, and to protect serious cases. Everyone has to face it. Of course, it is as if each other is assigned, and it does not minimize the matter, even if it is spoken of as such. It was referred to here, anyway. A senator himself came into it, that the unsupervised children who came here were given the benefit of the doubt. Individuals are given the benefit of the doubt when they are evaluated. That's a whole range of food. However, this does not prevent those who are being judged in the courts from serving sentence or being protected if needed according to the judgment of the police and the courts. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u34	Mr. President. I'd like to take up an inquiry asked to the highest level. Agricultural minister last week, of course. A member of the Central Party, Elvar, Eyvindsson's son, concerned with carbon balance and recovery of wetlands. The request was not answered at the highest level. Agricultural minister mostly referred to it to the highest degree. Environment and resource minister. That's why I want his answers on this matter. There is much talk about carbon balance and footprints in these days, and there has been considerable discussion about the subsequent recovery of wetlands. News reports in the Farmer magazine recently suggest that there is insufficient evidence on the subject and that even foreign use is contributing to the measure of emissions that may not be suitable in this case. Therefore, the request is as follows: Will there be increased research on this alleged emissions of carbon dioxide, and when can it be expected that it will be observed?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u35	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the inquiry. The answer: Yes, more research will be made in this regard. Thus, last year there were about 20 million specialized for projects in the area of wetlands recovery, and part of that amount went on the basis of research. This amount continues in this year, but in addition to that, we are looking for guidance in the Ministry right now to use the time until further action, perhaps over the next few years, will begin more intensively to further research. You're right, there's some research to be done. But with regard to international standards as well. A senator pointed out that they are in good shape with what has been studied here, so it is not unusual to use them. However, there is an enormous variability between different types of wetlands and also in time and bed, i.e. It's different wetlands, and then it goes on in time. For example, the water level can have a powerful impact on how much is being released from these wetlands. When the water level is high, it's less.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u36	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer. I expect the highest. Minister will follow up on the case. But now that I'm up here, I'd like to ask myself, " Is this not a better way to support forestry than is now being done? ' It's like the highest. Ministers are expected to know that Barri's plant will end her operations next summer, and this appears to be due to the harsh promises of growing forest and carbon binding. That will leave only two producers on trees of the forest. There's a situation we can hardly accept if we add up carbon binding. Take care of the highest. Will a minister make sure that Barri's plant is not dead and/or that he intends to secure the ground of the two growth sites left in the business?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u37	V.E.G. President. It is true that these issues raise a little bit of anxiety, especially because in fewer cases, the production of plants becomes less competitive and we look ahead to rising prices. There is one thing that is truly serious. It is planned, and we are working on the financial strategy, trying to increase the number of issues involved in the recovery of wetlands, agriculture, and forestry. Whether or not I will make a special impression that the business of these enterprises is not going to work out is hopefully better times ahead for them if more capital gain comes into this sector. That's the answer I can give this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u38	A respectable president. V.E.G. In the media, a minister of justice has talked about taking on political responsibility by attending media interviews and talking about her work. Now it's got the highest. However, a minister repeatedly debated the media. When the hour published data from the Ministry of Justice last week, a minister asserted that the evidence had received only this committee. This was wrong, and the minister said that it seemed to cover the fact that an FBI agent had already called for the same evidence. V.E.G. During the afternoon, a minister told me that the documents published on Monday, January 22, they should never have appeared, they were work data. No sensitive personal information is now available in the evidence so that the Ministry would have been authorized to provide information to the media and therefore to the public on the basis of the law on increasing access to information law. Why was it found the highest. Ministers so important that they were kept secret? Why was it found the highest. Ministers so important that the public should be kept uninformed of its administrations under the order of a national court? The same day, a minister was particularly responsible for an interview with mbl.is that she herself had not received e - mails, which discuss the importance of assessing the skills of all applicants based on new criteria. Now it is clear from the data received by the management and monitoring committee that there is certainly a secretary of the data received by email, including From the Ministry. How is it that the minister cannot give interviews to the media without distorting the truth and giving a false or misleading picture of the incidents of this miserable case? Shows this to the highest. A minister does not trust, or cannot shoulder political responsibility by means of a conversation alone?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u39	A respectable president. Now I don't know what it is. A senator watched the discussions of an executive and surveillance committee last night, which was over two hours of a meeting shown live on the General Assembly web site, and can be found on the Web site of the Generals and will be in the future. This is my last meeting in a long conference, hopefully not the last, I hope I have more meetings with that committee and other regular committees in the open. But I have a doubt, though I do not have the statistics on rhythms, that several republicl Ministers have visited the open meeting of the WCC committees as well as the Minister who stands here, and I have urged them to meet whom the Minister has attended, including with a management and monitoring committee and a board of education, the nature of a case, are open and live. I have no doubt that several ministers have attended as many meetings and, in any event, as soon as the minister of this magazine who is standing and has declared himself ready to attend all the meetings and give all the interviews that are in charge of this matter as best possible. In terms of the case, work data, and other documents that have been generated in the Ministry on this case, I have declared that it is totally indiscriminate to me that all the documents will be publicized. I've been talking about it, and I tore it up a long time ago in my ministry that all of this would be put on the Ministry's website. The Ministry's experts, however, have advised the minister and opposed the fact that it will, including, be done. Based on the evidence, there are computer data and work data relating to the communication between employees. This includes one e - mail that has been publicly published and is personally of no concern to me, but it was delivered to me, for example. Never. [[The president calls.]] He was e-mailed about how his staff communicated with him but never received me. But I have nothing to do with checking to reveal all these data. They've been sent to the Administrative Board and Control Committee and Agent of the Generals. [[The president calls.]] I don't know what. A senator is exaggerating about some sort of leak, referring to the Allied agent in this regard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u40	Mr. President. In fact, I watched last night's meeting very carefully, and I saw another reversal in the highest court language. Minister of Justice in such a matter, so I don't go to any accusations that I'm accusing General's agent of leaking, which is not what I was saying. I'm just saying it's wrong to argue that only a board of directors received a copy of these data, since a minister clearly stated that it had sent the data to no one else. That's not true. But the other reversals that I watched very closely at a meeting of the Commission and Observation Committee yesterday, involved in the responsibility of the council on the case. Sigríður Andersen, highest. The Minister of Justice, at an open meeting of the Board of Directors and Observers last morning, which I watched, was the authority, the council, had the authority to decide. It was all important, that would have been the authority, said the minister. The Council is clearly responsible for the order, that is, of the General, to confirm it. May 31, 2017, said the highest. Minister: It is a minister who has the authority and is responsible for it, both political and administrative responsibility. [[The president calls.]] How is this turn of events? Minister? When does this theater stop?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u41	A respectable president. In case of a moment. A senator will continue to make an assessment of this matter, which I'm sure may well feel. A senator will continue, he must do a little better than use this phrase as to what was said by the minister on the media's unique comments about who had been given some documents. There is a possibility, to consider, that a management and surveillance committee requested certain data with a specific inquiry. This data pack was provided only to the management and monitoring committee. That request was sent to no one other than the leader, who was inexorably. Board of Directors and Control Committee. An agent of the Generals had proposed a different sort of inquiry in the Ministry of Justice and received an answer to it and a set of data packages included. documents requested by the management and surveillance committee in order to be maintained. [[But what about the rest?]] I have mentioned it here, and all I have done is quote the respectable executives at the University of Iceland, that the authority on this matter was at the Council and is still at the General Assembly in these circumstances. [[The president calls.]] A person may disagree, and he may feel uncomfortable, but the situation and the minister may not be able to cooperate. [[Up front.]] The decision to make a decision to the Council is, of course, with the Minister, but the General had, and still has the authority to decide in the case the secretary decides to deviate from the judicial hearing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u42	Mr. President. Many have been moved to point out that in the most intense time of our Common Era, the English language has a certain danger. It is not bad to remember that we, the minister of Education and Cultures, included with other candidates for the Rite Society and the Icelandic bookmakers' company in the leading elections under the pretext that action would be required, not just to protect and promote the Icelandic language, but to save it. Of course, it takes many things to come. One is that the average public obviously favors the protection and access of their tongue, but a number of measures must be taken from the public, especially those related to the Internet, sometimes called the Internet. One of the things you miss online, and you have to believe that people have access to an Icelandic dictionary, and on the way they have more dictionaries, Icelandic, Icelandic, etc., so translations are easy to translate. I would also like to mention a book of words. I'd like to mention the many existing collections of words that have been produced by great efficiency and efficiency in a number of articles, history and development of an Icelandic language. My question to the highest. So, then, the minister of this matter is: What plans and measures are on the basis of the highest order? The Minister and the Ministry in these matters? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u43	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is eager to ask and to bring up the importance of putting Icelandic in the first place. I agree that there is an urgent need to increase access to Icelandic dictionarys. One thing that the educational community and others have been doing in recent years is building up a lot of materials in this regard, but bioavailability is not quite paid. I agree with him on that. This is one of the things I want to look at when we're working on this class. I'd like to mention the actions we're working on. First, there is an act of conjugal thinking that aims to put the Icelandic in the first place. It will be in quite a number of teams where we will focus on publishing, films, media, and other such factors. This is a very exciting assignment, and it can be said that the nation is entirely with us, for one of the great challenges of this terms must indeed strengthen all the scope of the language in English.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u44	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I think this case is a great hobby for a minister. However, it is not out of the way of making any urgent comments about the material I make as a special subject. Other nations have felt the need for such material to be available. Our association has a heavy responsibility for the development, growth, and well - being of the Icelandic language. We would now need men like Rasmus Kristján Rask and the Polynians. Of course, each person is required to do his duty in these matters so that our beautiful tongue may continue to survive and endure in its present time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u45	The president is very reluctant to beat the bell when it is so beautifully spoken of the Icelandic language, but he asks for time limits.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u46	A respectable president. Thank you. Once again, a senator for his input and the sharpening words and for the fact that I have such a powerful team with regard to this party. I'd like to mention that I agree with what. Senator, we need to increase access to dictionaries, and I will attack the task of examining these possibilities. In addition, I'd like to mention that one of the things we've fully financed is the grammatical project, which aims to make Icelandic currents in a digital world. That project is fully funded, which I consider very positive. That's what we're doing with our jobs on how we're gonna let our machines talk to us in Icelandic. This assignment has sometimes been entitled The Divine Bible of our time, and I think it would be very helpful for this group of subjects to look for increased consultation with the Council on the suggestions as well as on the Senate proposals I am offering in order to get as good an idea as ever mentioned.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u47	Mr. President. A report was received this week from a report made by the British government that identified the platforms on the possible effects of Bgret, i.e. British passage from the European Union. It is in itself an interesting reading that appeared very clear compared to the three major forms or the most likely scenarios detected that the effect would be substantial, negative in all cases. The effect would be negative on all British main work branches. It compared the motion picture that no contract could reach, that a large bargain could be obtained, or that the British were entering the European Economic Area, which may seem rather unlikely to be a picture compared to the Brit's contractors. In all cases, the effect was marked and negative. V.E.G. The minister of state has discussed these matters a great deal about opportunities involving the Bgret for us Icelanders. Actually, I haven't seen anything like this with his colleagues in the EEA, but let's put it between parts. It must be quite clear that if the British economy in the coming years is going to get considerably weakened by the passage of Britain from the European Union, it can have a significant and negative impact on Icelandic companies that have major trades with the British, as Britain's market is one of our most important export markets. So I'd like to ask the highest. Foreign Minister: Has there been a detailed analysis of the Ministry of State on the overall impact of Britain's success in leaving the European Union, what our greatest challenges will be, and how we can deal with them?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u48	A respectable president. Hv. A senator was here referring to a report leaked from the British Council and has now been criticized. It has been suggested that, on the contrary, all the predictions made in connection with British exits, Begreitt, in their time have not been followed. But there is something else, and we hope it will work well with our British friends in the near future. This depends fully on them. So I refer to it when I was talking about the opportunity of Iceland when the British get out of the European Union, then they know why. A senator was well aware that there are customs at the EEA market for us. Then there must be an opportunity, like what? A senator well knows, if he or she becomes a customs officer who should, of course, be decomposed. The European Union has not taken this into account until now. The same way, I know why. A senator that the British have stressed that they are going to be international in business, focusing more on increased free trade agreements, and at the same time. A senator knows that there will be more free trade contracts to be made, which means an opportunity for the export country of Iceland, which is a free trade nation, and a fine example of the success of a vacation store. We are a clear example of this. In terms of the State Department's homework, no less than a full report has been published. A senator is under control, as the work has been carefully covered. We have given this much emphasis, since Britain is our second most important business country. There have been various scenarios, but this has also been identified, not only within the Board of Directors, but also with stakeholders, because it is important that we get them to the table immediately and that they do. This report has been available for some time. But the work continues.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u49	Mr. President. It's true what you're saying in the case of the highest order. Foreign Ministers that in Baltrexit can provide opportunities for products currently under customs in the EEA Convention, e.g. in the fishing road. There is no need to minimize the opportunities there may be, but we also know that we have considerable service dealings with the British. It has been concluded that the chances of Britain's financial system becoming seriously ill with Baltrexit. In fact, there is already evidence that international financial companies are moving their activity or reducing their effectiveness in Britain and moving to continent of Europe in the leading of Baltrexit. I have not seen that the overall impact of Icelandic economy has been a major concern, but in view of the assessment by the British government, I ask: Is it not just reason why the Icelandic government should evaluate the impact of Bgret for the Icelandic economy as well as how we might react to it? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It is clear that our threats are quite more than just the opportunities in the fishing field.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u50	A respectable president. We're gonna go for a second. At the same time, a senator agrees that there is an opportunity for Iceland when it comes to the passage of the British from the European Union. [[Up front.]] Well, that's good, anyway. Then it's just that we don't have to talk about it anymore, because it's obviously very irritating. A senator when he refers to the world as an opportunity. So it is also said; although the EEA contract is our most important business contract, it was not that the European Union invented a vacation shop. A vacation store is around the world, and a vacation store is not just about goods. Tolar is just a very small part of it. What's going on with the technical business barriers... [[Up front.]] Hv. A senator's having a hard time right now, so I'm fine with that. The biggest threat in general is technical business barriers. How much we have grown from this traditional trade to all trades for service. Travel service is, for example, Today's most important industry, to be taken into consideration, makes it a big picture. The reason we've had this open-label on the Bgreit job, called the party, is because we want to get all comments and tips. We continue our work, we look at the whole thing. In case of a moment. A senator offers some practical suggestions for doing even better, but this is not just the case. A senator keeps his interests and his people all. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u51	A respectable president. Excuse me one more time, but the Minister of Justice noted earlier that the data was only sent to the Board of Directors and Commission. It's not accurate. Since all members of the Parliament have access to that information, the documents go to a meeting puzzle or to the committee puzzle. Something was said about leaks in connection with it, but these data are not confidential to anyone, so let's get it straight. Also, a secretary said that he had not received e - mails in this relationship, but in the data contained in the committee hypothesis, the authorities say that he intends to make a copy of all the letters immediately in the morning and to bring them to the secretary. It is not true, therefore, that a minister has not received this information and the data mentioned in the email and it is not true that only a board of administration and surveillance committees have access to these data.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u52	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to correct a adoption law, No. 130/1999, with subsequent changes, the reviews of the immediate family. One factor is the bill in improving the rights of the children who have lost a parent or both. Sadly, that group of children is badly protected when they experience such calamities in their lives. Then you ask yourself, " What could their rights be? ' There is a need for discussion that we need to take and begin today. In this discussion, we need to learn from the North countries, which in various ways have ensured the legal rights of this group of children and by a clear procedure in dealing with serious illness or the immediate death and the role of a child. We must provide services to our children in that role within our health, social and administrative systems and inform them of their legal status. We need, for example. to make them aware of the legal effects of adoption, but in adoption there is also a change in ties with the extended family according to law and rights. While new ones enter their lives, a basic factor is that a child is allowed to maintain contact, background, and special characteristics. They are a number of factors that must be covered to ensure equality in the case of children who have lost another parent. So we decided to present a bill for a change in one objective point toward the adoption of children who have lost another parent or both. Then it is stated at the council that a child - care bill will be permitted to request additional child - care fees for special expenses, which is also a very important matter. The balance of the rightness of a group of children will, of course, continue. The bill that we discuss leads to a change in paragraphs 7 and 11. No. 130/1999, with subsequent changes. There are two kinds of changes. First, it is suggested that if you apply for adoption of a child who has lost one parent or both, whether as a primary or step step route, seek the report of the child's immediate family or both of them if both are dead. Second, it is suggested that in cases where a child has been pregnant with candidates and the interests of the candidates strongly recommend the adoption, however, the comments of the immediate family should be sought if a parent is dead or both. The objective of the bill is to ensure that a child's enduring relationship with a deceased parent's family or with parents is not lost to any of its immediate relatives or their parents. A discussion of adoption has provided a view that children should be subject to strict conditions, since adoption is by its nature a protection form for the child. According to 3 mg. 76. g. Council of the Republic of Iceland, No. 33/144, children should be ensured by law the protection and management required of them. In 1992, with the declaration of Iceland's 1992 contract of the United Nations on the rights of the child of 1989 and later the legalisation of the Convention by law No. 19/2013 and Iceland's involvement in the 1993 Hague Treaty for the Protection of Children and Cooperation in those countries has been taken into consideration how the child's needs will be best served in this regard. First, it is assumed that a child is in general the best interests of growing up with his parents or family. Second, it is expected that a child will be tried to ensure adequate care in his home country to ensure that a child's relationship with his or her background and culture is established. It is estimated that between 40 and 50 children under 18 years of age, their parents die each year here. In addition to parental loss, they are often not in line with the immediate family of the deceased parent and with their background. Seven. a law on adoption requires the approval of the one who has the custody of a child or of a special legal guardian. Four. 7. it is stated that adoption can be permitted despite consenting to Article 1 or 2. Lacking the article if an unborn child is present and the interests of the candidates clearly recommend otherwise that this baby be adopted. In comment, we're 7. In the bill of adoption, it is stated that the law does not apply to stepáding. On the other hand, in the situation where a child who has lost a parent or even both is placed in the fetus. Such a child can adopt without the consent of a parent's guardian. Nowhere has it been said that the approval of the immediate family or parents should be sought. That's a requirement in 1 1 1. the practice of adoption should be sought for the instruction of the parent who, if possible, does not take custody of a child before taking a position for adoption. This applies both to primary or step path. Thus, there is no law on what to do if you apply for the adoption of your child, a primary or stephead, who has lost a parent or even both. As a result, a child who has suffered such a loss without looking for the comments of a close family member in the family of the deceased parent can be introduced by a first or step. Not in the 7th or 11th. The law is required to seek the fame of the immediate family of the deceased parent in the case of primary or stepfamilies or the immediate family of both parents in the case of primary procedures when both parents are dead. Similarly, in the case of a parent or even two parents who have been put in the fetus and later for adoption by foster parents, they are not expected to seek the information of their immediate family. To ensure the child's best interests and right to his origin, family, and personality characteristics, the bill says that the arrival of the nearest family of a deceased parent or that of a parent will both be dead before taking a position for adoption. This is then the businessman in accordance with Article 1. The law to evaluate the entire situation, the review and the will of the party. In order to maintain harmony, the bill states that such a review is also needed if an unborn child has been exposed to candidates, and the interests of the candidates strongly recommend otherwise that it be adopted. If the bill is legal, the move is considered legal in the case of a child's case. Under this bill, the person standing here writes with a bang. The members of Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Áslaug Srúna Arna, Theoigner of the Year, Anna Kolbrún's Árnadóttir, Olafian Isleif, Bergethon Ísleifsson of Ólason, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Sigurður Jónsson Jón's Steindór, Valdimarsson Pesídrimson, and Þórhildur, Sunna Ævarsdóttir. I'd like to have a good team cooperation with the Parliament's treatment and that the case will be carried out on to the General and Education Committee after the 1st. I hope we can have good cooperation in ensuring this group of children their own rights and that they will continue to focus on their affairs in order to ensure their legal rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u53	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct a law of law No. 80/2016, for foreigners (with no children). These include changes in six branches of the alien resident. Those most important are the role of Children's Health Committee and Child Welfare when it comes to the affairs of children who are not invited. The work of a welcome centre and a children's reception home is also emphasised. With the permission of the President, I'd like to read here from the adjustment proposal on Article 27. The law on law No. 80/2016, of foreigners who are left behind with a headline: ...and children's reception home. The minister is responsible for working as a law-enforcement centre for the applicant's global protection as well as a special welcome home for children in which the work consists of completing and caring for the humanitarian duties of the public to candidates for international protection, taking into account the different needs of individuals and groups and their safety. The Ministry can, depending on events, hide an appropriate organisation, a community, partners, or other activities based on service contracts, where the roles and duties of the operator are thoroughly defined. The Council shall regularly monitor the conduct of the contract. It is not permitted to operate a reception centre or a profit - benefit - benefit reception home or a service contract with the Ministry. Resident centres and reception homes must be the refuge of candidates for international protection from their arrival in the country until their application smells, as well as the occurrences of human victims and temporary residents in need during their case. Children under 18 years of age who apply for international protection and who are victims of human halls or who are in need for other reasons should be invited to this age group's receptional home for as long as it is needed or until a permanent solution to their affairs is found. Children's reception homes should be associated with preschool, school, health care, and other public activities that contribute to the well - being of children, where professionals in the field of training and education should be employed. When entering a receptional home, a professional assessment of the child's position and needs and arrangements should be made to meet them properly. The child's view of the matter should be sought and taken into account as much as possible. The head of a reception home must write to the Ministry about the child's position and plans for this during the stay of the reception home. The secretary sets up a Regulation on the further implementation of this law, including the Agency and the activities of children's reception centres and reception homes and the requirements for such activities should be met for the different needs and standing of those living there. I'd like to mention other adjustments made to the current law of foreigners, which I'm also presenting with the bill, and it's also a challenge to welcome unsupervised children. It's 5 mg. Twenty-eight. the law of foreigners. My proposal on the bill reads: ▪ The person who interviews a child should have expertise in the affairs of children. The head of the child-sponsor must always be present for visitors from the Foreign Institute for Children, cr. 2 mg. 31. In the case of an unsurpassed child, the rights servant should take care of the child. 6 mg. 24th par. Always be present for interview. I'd also like to discuss other adjustments in existing laws that are presented in the bill. It's as follows, with the permission of a president: When reaching the conclusion in child care, the Children's Health Department shall provide a permanent home, such as in foster care, ensure that the interests of a child are always put in place, and that a child - protection committee will properly discharge its duties to the child and in accordance with child protection laws, including children's protection laws. With respect to residence, health care, and the possibility of education A safe home should also be guaranteed in accordance with the child's protection laws; children under the age of 18 will stay in a special children's reception home or in comparable resources. The most important thing is in the bill I recommend, there are changes in the laws of foreigners aimed at promoting the rightness of the homeless children. Even so, the law of the foreign law No. 80/2016, which went into effect on 1 January 2017, which included to the escorted children and their treatment, include significant improvements from older foreigners with no escorted children, the lack of adequate support and support for this group of candidates for international protection is clear. As the situation is now, the most important thing is not to expect a place to live for without children but to be expected for only one reception center where all age groups spend together. There will be no other rule for 27 st. the treatment of foreigners, but there is expected to be the same site for children without escorts, i.e. to a reception station, with adults. The same is true of regulations found in paragraph 24. Regulation No. 540/2017, although it is certainly a requirement to ensure child rights and rights of disabled persons. However, as I told you earlier, the law does not mean that children who are accompanied by children are expected to be a place to live in a reception centre with adults. Such an arrangement is simply not acceptable in view of the security of children, but it is seen in accordance with the UN Convention on Child Rights that have been legalized here, in line with the law of No. 19/2013. This suggests that in addition to reception stations, there will be a reception home set up for unsupervised children up to 18 years of age. It is also suggested that such a home be adequately related to the public work, rather to children, so that children who stay in a reception home can have the opportunity to enjoy schooling, sports and leisure activities, health care, and other activities that children offer to share in or benefit from, as it is the responsibility of the government to provide refugees with their internationally acceptable rights and important that they fulfill their obligation to this inadequacy group of refugees. With this bill, consideration was given in section 5A of the Norwegian Child Protection Act and the U.S. It was also referred to ◯Guidelines on International Prognostic; and No. 6•2005) Treatment of Unaccompaned and Superior Children Outside the Country of Origins, from the United Nations Committee on Child Rights. All of these regulations are designed to ensure that the rights of the non - Witness refugees under international contracts are respected here and elsewhere. The information provided by the European Parliament's December 2016 research services reports that, according to UNICEF (UNICEF), the world's gangless refugees in 2015 were not under 100 thousand. The tens of thousands of refugees who are driven across Europe, and according to the same sources, at least ten thousand refugees have disappeared in recent years. It's completely unbearable, that number is way too high. Children are always in a weaker position than adults, and there are dangers that threaten refugees especially by the United Nations Committee on Child Rights. Among the common offenses against the rights of the non - Witness refugees is to prevent their entry, keep them in custody, and hold them under their heads in court for treatment, or ignore the requirements for treatment of the matter in relation to their age and sex. Human rights organization Human Rights Watch has also repeatedly called attention to the plight of the escorted refugees and others. Shows that these acts of rights are often committed by saving them with strangers in prisons or in places similar to prisons. Of course, this is never to be tolerated here in Iceland. So this bill is supposed to make things right. The problem in Europe, the terrible problem of homeless children fleeing, has also reached Iceland. In recent years, the number of peaceless refugees in Europe has increased, and this trend is also being developed here. According to reports from the Red Cross in Iceland, 18 other refugees arrived here in 2016. That number, though not in my hands, rose last year, 2017, and that number, 18 children in 2016, was doubled in the previous year. It reflects the vast number of refugees who came to Europe and also comes here. Unfortunately, there is no evidence that a refugee problem in Europe is in remission, and it must be expected that over the next few years there will be an undisclosed number of escorted refugees who need assistance in Icelandic society and who are indeed entitled to help with the international commitments established by Iceland. The bill I recommend that the United States fulfill its important obligation to this defenseless group of children who are on the run. I'd like to thank the members of the council who are with me on this bill, which is the Logi Einarsson, Halldóra Mogensen, Þorsteinn Megsteins of Víglundsson Árnason, and Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir. I'd like to direct the bill to the General and Education Committee and ask for good cooperation with the Commission on its progress. I know, and I am convinced that members of the council sitting there will welcome the bill and will do it well.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u54	A respectable president. I'm celebrating this bill. paritaprevir Rósa Björk Brynjólfsdóttir's daughter of change of foreign law in view of the unsupervised children. I think it is very important to ensure that young children who are without children are safe and that there are resources in the form of a household that is specially cared for as long as their issues are considered. The bill suggests that the issues of young carers are already in shape at their arrival. There is also some relief available to police and child - care providers. This is also important because they have complained that they do not have resources or something to look into in these matters. A recent case that has been in the news about the status of a young trustee who suffered violence within the walls of a prison here at Little Lague strengthens my view that the chemical treatment of an escorted child in this country is not satisfactory. This young man, 18 years old, has been thrown between systems for the two years he has been here. It would seem that if this young person had obtained adequate resources and shelter right away, he would be in a different position today. I'd like to ask you what. A senator and a prime speaker whether she considers the welcome of non-supervised children in this country to be in accordance with chapter 3 of the alien resident involved in handling procedures on international protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u55	A respectable president. Thank you for the inquiry from what? Senator. She asks if I feel that this age has been acceptable to court treatment, this delicate category of children and young people who come here to Iceland. Although good things have been done to the best of our ability, I believe we must do better in this category to ensure the rights of our children and fulfill the international commitments we have applied. I think, and it may also be right to present, that my bill is to ensure a special welcome home for the children, so that they will be at peace and be given adequate service that they should receive; not among adults, strangers, etc. I believe this bill will sharpen the welcome this age group needs. I would also like to remind you that the laws regarding non - Israelite alliances are not trapped in stone. There are laws that should change. We should not be afraid of that, just in this case, which is making so much changes that so much fermentation has been made, allowing us to improve the laws and to add to the international commitments we have applied and to protect the most vulnerable groups that come here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u56	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. This is exactly what I think, i.e. that this would clear up certain options that the authorities here need to take to address these issues. Similarly, this group must be distinguished from the adult population. A wide - wide group of candidates, including all ages, may vary, and circumstances may vary greatly. We know that the social situation of young lovers of refuge may be far worse than that of adults. I'm going to follow this bill and support it deeply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u57	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's support for the bill, really good to hear. I also think that the bill, although it sharpens the availability of child protection and helps to clarify the need for children to receive a home, is not a final solution to ensure better service to children and young people. We can also ask ourselves, " Do I need to reconsider the methods used in dating? ' The Red Cross has made major and serious comments on the methods and not only the Red Cross in Iceland but also the international organization and institutions that have wondered whether these methods are good and just. We also need to strengthen the rural communities and child protection that work around the country, and especially here in the capital area and in the Southern regions, in order to provide them with services as this group comes here and looks to us for international protection. I think all of us can unite in making reforms for this group, these children, and other delicate groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u58	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank the movers for presenting the case. This is very good. I hope there will be more, and in fact, more have been submitted to the Council now. I think there's a lot that needs to be considered about the new alien law that we've recently completed and adjusted a few times. This matter has been presented twice before it could not get into a review process at any time, so that reviews were received. After a review of the case, I find it very careful and well thought out, and really as if the original law should have been, but important matters such as this often become clear when there are reviews about them. Foreign law and foreign affairs are a group of languages that actually have to do with anything that can happen to a person in life. It is as different as the human population itself as it is in a few cases, except for possible cases in the case of the disabled, that is as varied as there, apart from the fact that a part of the group is a disabled person. It is an overwhelming variety of people, an overexcited variety of languages, and an excessive variety of circumstances. When we make legal classes to try to keep such litigators in mind, it's time and again that we're putting the human life in a box and it's impossible. We have to set the legislation in view of the inability to anticipate standard situations where we will do this if this happens, the other thing. We have to do this in some way because these are laws of the land and they need to be calculated, they need to be more readable and not just before a judge, but also that the public and the Foreign Institutes can read the law and recognize the will of the painter and how to respond when people simply don't fit in the box. One of the things that do not fit completely into this box is the human and biological phenomenon of age, which is not cut and cut, either in human or in human life. It is not that in the second we turn 18, we will be responsible enough to choose and get married and to do one. This is not so when we become 20 years old, we learn to drink alcohol. That is not so when we become 17, we become responsible enough to drive a car. It's all guidelines. We always expect that in one second, at midnight on a certain day, the person's situation will change suddenly. When it comes to drinking age, law, or driving, this is not a shocking matter. It's okay that we don't meet in the right place. But when it comes to making decisions about a lasting future, they are important. More important, when it is a question of whether people are under or over a certain age, we let them enjoy the doubt. It's the swamp in the community that I've been forced to participate in over the years that it works so that people come and ask for asylums, they ask for gold and green forests, and they say they're a child. I hear a story about how if there's some whitebeard old man coming in and claiming to be a child and refusing to go to date, he's going to be treated automatically as a child. That's bullshit. This is bullshit. It's a lie and a swamp that's gonna hit people who need protection, let's get it straight. Let us not call it anything but that. Sadly, dishonesty is particularly honest in this category when it comes to some viewpoints. But I don't want to go out into the dark psalms because here in front of us is a bill designed to improve the position of the escorted children. As mentioned earlier, although a child claims to be a child, it does not mean that a person rejects his age. If there is any doubt, we should let people benefit from the doubt because children may be involved. I think it is considerably more serious not to allow a child to be treated justly as an adult than an adult, perhaps 19 or 22 years of age, to be treated and treated as a child. This is by no means as serious as not giving a child the rights to the rights. Obviously, there is no doubt that if we do not see them, we should rather agree that they are children. Then comes a question that cannot be settled, so life is just that way, and we have to deal with it. We need laws that are to be expected because it is not that when we turn 18, our teeth become different or something biological may change. It's not like that. We don't live in that reality, and we shouldn't pretend to live in that reality. I would especially like to mention one thing that made me think about, paragraph 5, which is just five. The bill. It discusses that an employee of child - welfare authorities should be present at all visits from the Foreign Institute for Children, an additional 5 mg. Twenty-eight. previous law. It says, by permission of the President: ▪ The person who interviews a child should have expertise in the affairs of children. A foreign agency is permitted to leave the experts in child - care programs to assist them. I don't mean to speak on behalf of the movers, but this rhymes very well with my vision at the Foreign Institute. I have to say, and I don't like to criticize people or agencies from the pantret of the Generals, that the Foreign Institute of England is not doing it. She's not good enough to take this party. We are to say it out loud because this is the important group of subjects that we cannot allow ourselves to cooperate with the institutions of the State when they fail. There are other people who don't do what they do. Social committees of foreigners may not listen to arguments, and even they may not answer them at times. Then, it is our whole system of government, our superior authorities, in the vastest sense, that does not work out. We are not part of this case at the General Assembly. Although foreigners work on the earth, as is said in the wicked language, others are to blame. I'm afraid that's because we haven't quite figured out our responsibility. We are still a relatively unique society - which, hopefully, will change over time, and I make sure that evolution is not only positive but essential - and it is easy for us to pretend that the world's problems do not concern us, as if our refugee ice had nothing to do with us. Everything in the seminars is our concern. We cannot pretend that this is just a problem for the Mediterranean or in the middle of Europe or Germany or something, we must participate ourselves. This may involve sacrifices. There is no need for great sacrifice if we are right about things, which I hope will start to do seriously. We're responsible. The big question, whether it is children or adults, is really how we are involved in welcoming people. It is common for people to simply put the burden on someone else. People sometimes say things like that it's okay for people to come here as long as they're like us. It's okay for these people to be different from just if they're somewhere else. This is not a reality we live in today, whether people like it or not. In this regard, we are talking about children, at least people who are young, that they look like children in order to be children. I believe it is young enough to be molded by Icelandic society over time, better than older people who find it harder to change their ways and customs. On the contrary, when it comes to children, we should not let foreigners rule us. On the contrary, we should unite in doing our best to make them enjoy the doubt that claims to be children when there is doubt. I've been wanting to ask the highest. Minister of Justice, and now I'm just going outside the material, a respectable president, asking for pardon, into these and other cases. However, the position of that minister and the confidence in the minister at the point that I find it embarrassing to discuss with her other than the elephant of the Land Court. I feel that when we start talking to the minister about other matters, such as forgetting or forgiving, or the same about the matter, which is not over and does not end until the minister resigns. Since then, it is also found that the minister of the seminary does what he wants and doesn't care if there is criticism, and it doesn't care if the Supreme Court insists it. Minister of Justice violates law. That means if I ask the highest. The minister of justice needs to ask, too, if it is in accordance with the opinion of the experts who cooperate with a minister or if she has asked someone else. I don't trust it. I don't believe it at all. The minister of justice, the minister of the seminary, says. It's an independent problem in our administration that we're always wasting time chasing around like this. Let me remind you of a good speech. In Pontu the other day, Olga Margrét Cilia's deputy pointed out that politicians should stop wasting the time of the public and all of us in pursuit of such matters. We should be able to deal with such matters and discuss them, but things should not get in the way of their actions. I find it very difficult to have serious discussions with the highest level of people. Minister of Justice because this matter always gets in the way, that's always for us. There's a special problem in the group. I'm not gonna have this any further, more dignified president. I thank you again for the good news and accept my case as a reminder that the law is defective even if it is new. There are other issues that need to be adjusted more, even though people may feel uncomfortable going into so - called pieces. However, the laws may be that they are clearer than the existing ones; they are easier to read and easier to look up than in the existing laws. That's a good thing. We're supposed to be able to use it, and we're going to be able to use it, and we're going to have this bill right here, and we're going to have it all figured out, and we're not going to do a full reexamination. I'm afraid it would take longer than it should be done to fix the law and make it truly humane, as it was planned.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u59	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the interest and support of the case, as well as for his age of torture. I think we must share, because it doesn't matter if you're 12 or 60 years old; those who come here to Iceland looking for international protection have the right to a good and reasonable treatment for those who come here. In answer to whatSigný Kristjánsdóttir I mentioned that I did not have much faith in such dating as tooth analysis. That's exactly what I think. At the end of his talk, a senator mentioned that although the current law on foreigners is valid in its own way, the situation is constantly changing and requires a constant review of that law. I share that opinion with you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson that I have a little lump in my stomach over a review of foreign law taking too long. I hope you don't. In the meantime, we may have to accept the need to improve the laws that are in force today. I'd like to ask you what. A senator shares with me a vision of dating, such as dental analysis, whether or not. A senator considers them to be a just and reasonable way to measure the age of the trustees who come here in search of international protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u60	A respectable president. I'm not in the habit of making strong statements about scientific fields that I haven't specifically studied - and even if I have studied them specifically, I'm not much of a person's claim. But I certainly share that vision with a bang. A senator that I have not learned that this is a highly reliable technique in general. If I thought of it as a simple player, I'd think that this theory requires that people who were being studied in this field all rise up in similar circumstances. I think people have very different teeth, depending on where they come from and under what circumstances they live. But as I say, I don't know science behind this. We treat the big alien language, when we set these laws in our time, the new law, that often came to the fore. A top-of-the-art Board of Education, where I sat at the time. It was my sincere perception that such analyses were all the way imperfect science; I think it is quite safe to say that, perhaps something that can be used for reference at some point. But as I say, I think it'll always be a bit complicated, it'll be a bit difficult. Of course it's the simplest case. Why don't we go, and now I know I'm probably annoying people who want to make sure that there are no foreigners, dentists, and give jobs licenses to people, the Icelanders, when they're 16◯18 years old. They can stay here, they can just work here. If we had less of the illusions for the people who come here, we wouldn't have to stand up in these doubts; we wouldn't have to be in the dark, just a simple thing like having a living permit on the basis of employment participation, there's no such thing as Iceland. These are experts' licenses, they have no licenses, but people who want to come here and work, start a business, open a pizza place or something, can't unless they come from the EEA or meet any other conditions, are married to an Icelander or an EEA citizen or something like that. If we had such permission, if we were just less stressing whether people were here or not, if we were just more liberal with this, this would be less of a problem. Then we would have less to answer some such scientific question from the Pontu IIsa. Hears and pray.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u61	Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for the answer. I think we can agree that neither of us have the background on dentists nor science, that's something we can disagree about. But this method of dating has begun to face international constant and clear opposition. Here in Iceland, the Red Cross has been very harsh lately to this species of dating. True, we need to keep in mind, too, that we need a way of identifying age and trying to aim for the ministry available to the age it should be. Where it is. A senator has been standing here in a pita and sharing in this discussion over time also provides reason to consider whether an 18 - year - old - year - old - coming from a war - torn country, has experienced great disasters, has taken flights, has made the decision in his life to uproot from family, family, relatives, and friends because of war or disaster, and then ends here in Iceland in search of international protection - should not automatically be the right of a more specialized service, rather than admiring that service to his age alone, i.e. that the individual's experience is then accepted into the service rendered. I'd like to hear a very brief opinion. It's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u62	A respectable president. It's like, as I mentioned in my speech earlier, that we're trying to put something in a box that doesn't fit in a box. People come here from different circumstances and for as many reasons as possible. Indeed, people who come from war - torn territories need a ministry. We can thank you, Icelanders, for not knowing these trials for our own skin, and for having difficulty considering exactly what needs to be done. But as we take the experience with others, we gradually gain it so that it is always getting better. The most important thing to me is that we have such a good welcome system that we don't have to rely on whether the individual is 22 or 16. I think it's okay for someone 22 years of age to receive a special service or to consider individual circumstances regardless of their age. Age is only one variable, which, of course, is extremely important here in Iceland. You know that a 17 - year - old might have a car test, and you know that a 20 - year - old may be mature for drinking. How, though, is an 18 - year - old who, in large part, grew up in war in Syria, was 22 years old who was raised on the street in Rome? We cannot use age as a measure on a variety of human development, especially when it is so different, let alone the type of development, that is natural, and complex. So it's not that simple that we can simply compare everything to our age. At some point, we must do so because we as a community have decided to give special consideration to children. Same problem. When so much is at stake, when all the people's future is at stake, we should always let our youth enjoy the doubt and improve the system for them instead of trying to resist people who claim to be younger than they are, get more service than they are entitled to. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u63	V.E.G. President. I now bring the bill of a change in organ resection, No. 16/1991 on the intended consent. My importer has a problem. paritaprevir Willum Thor Thor Thor Þór Þórsson. The bill means that changes are made in 2.gr. current law, i.e. 1st and 2nd. It says so, by permission of the President: A person's body can be expelled from an organ or organic material to use in the medical treatment of another person if the deceased was self - sacrificing and did not oppose it; otherwise, it is not thought to violate his will. However, only an organ or organic material derived from the body of a deceased person should be used in the medical treatment of another person. This law goes into effect on January 1, 2019. Until the implementation of these laws, the Ministry of Health shall present their material to the citizens of the country. Now, the one standing here puts in the bill for the fifth time, but before that, he had a previous drive. paritaprevir Friðleifsdóttir Fräuleinddottir made the bill twofold. V.E.G. President. In current organ resection laws, No. 16/1191, based on the fact that organs or organic matter will not be removed from a deceased person's body unless its consent or its immediate problem is established, compare with 1 and 2 mg. 2.g. The law. Thus, the law now means no, i.e. that the deceased had not approved the removal of an organ or organic material, unless otherwise available. The bill suggests that the change in 2.g. The law says it's in accordance with the ◯ Plan agreed, i.e. that the deceased will be expected to have mixed with the removal of an organ or organic substance unless there is reason to believe otherwise. The basic principle of the bill is that people are naturally expected to come to the aid of a neighbor by providing organs and organics, not dead. For this reason, it is normal for legislation to reflect the view of consent but the intended denial of organ donors. By means of the bill, there is a guard on the self - determination rights of the people of their bodies by forbidding the removal of organs or organic materials from the body of the deceased, who have opposed it, or other causes of removal are considered to be against their will. A database has now been set up by a surgeon who can document organ donors and is the most reliable way to communicate opposition. It should also be respected, however, that the deceased has otherwise described their opposition, e.g. to the closest man. Then, because of a certain reason, the removal of an organ or organic material from the body of a deceased person was not to be made to conclude that it was against his will, e.g. if it was foreordained that it was against religion that he held. The criteria of the bill are that individuals themselves can take an informed stand for the administration of an organ or organic material from their own bodies to the dead. It is not possible to do this by spontaneous individuals. Thus, the removal of organs or organic chemicals from their bodies into the dead may weigh their own self - determination rights. It is suggested that it be prohibited. It is also recommended that organs or organic matter be removed from the body of a deceased person for the medical treatment of another person, and the nearest person of the dead will resist it. It doesn't matter if the deceased has expressed itself acceptable. When the one present presented the case at the 143th leg of law, the matter was discussed at the time. The General welfare Committee. The committee arranged the matter so that she did not feel that it was time for her to suggest a deliberate change of law. In the opinion of the Commission, there were some findings. until it is necessary to seek a way to increase the number of organ donors from the dead. Yet, the experience of other nations showed that foreordaining consent alone did not have the desired effect and could prevent individual self - determination. A legal adjustment in the intention of consent might be one of the methods that would be considered, but it would be necessary for all ways that the objective would be thoroughly examined. To accomplish this, the commission suggested that the bill be referred to a further inspection by the government. That proposal was accepted. This led to the appointment of the director of a health - care group and to the decision to examine the matter and take a specific point to consider, including the following: .................................................... The task force was appointed representatives of all political parties then located in the General Assembly. The group obtained counsel from the Ministry of Health to assist in the comparison of law in Iceland and Norway and Sweden, and the group then divided between the two groups to review the experiences of other countries of the expected agreement. We went through many areas in that regard. In addition, a team of transplant experts from the Sahlgrenska Hospital in Göltenburg met with the Icelanders having a contract with and handling organ donors who came here according to the agreement between Iceland's Medical Insurance and Sahlgrenska, which was Guðbergsson by the head of the Directors of Godberg. The service group also had the opportunity to attend talks on the Sundays of 2015 for transplants. Runólfur Pálsson, director of nephrotherapy at the Land Hospital ◯ University hospital and Kristinn Sigvaldason, chief medical staff in Fos such an intensive care unit, provided advice for the group. In Norway, Sweden, Denmark, and Finland, a so - called agreement for organ transplant is expected. The law, then, is in general, allowing him to remove an organ from a dead person if he accepted it. If the individual does not accept such agreement, organs may be removed and medical treatment should be used if there is no room for an individual's attitude toward such things or for reasons to expect that they will be opposed to his or her attitude. In the past, however, despite their expected consent and generally taking into account their position, the search for sides is sought. In Norwegian and Swedish legislation, children can be a living gift in special cases and a set of conditions, but such laws do not exist in Icelandic legislation. In neighboring countries, the same rules apply to children and to others who are not able to agree to organ donors, but there are no special rules in Icelandic law regarding the approval of that group. I mentioned earlier that the work force had made a special comparison between the legislation in Norway and Sweden. Simply put, the highest. The difference is this: When a living donor gives an organ, it must not be too risky for him to undergo the operation. When a non-renewable site is applied, according to Swedish legislation, it is related or closely related to transplant recipients. Such a law is not available in Norwegian legislation. If a transplant donor is a child or someone who for other reasons is not able to agree, the relationship to transplant patients is mandatory. Care should be taken to ensure that the donor has received the appropriate information and understands the informed consent. The Swedish law is based on the intention of consent for a dead gift like that of Norwegian. According to Swedish law, people may reject organ donors, knowing that the deceased would not have wanted to pass on to their organs. On the other hand, caregivers cannot prevent organ transplant giving to the one that has premeditated its approval. This is the major difference between Norwegian and Swedish legislatures. The Swedish law does not set specific age criteria for registration of organ donors after death. In addition to careful consideration of organ donors in our neighboring countries, the work force together covered a number of academics and studies relating to the experiences of other nations with the intention of agreeing. Topical staff cared for the Department of Health Services. The research team covered eight scientific electronic databases until 2008 and thus looked at 2,000 articles, which were carefully covered by 68 articles. In all, there were 26 articles that could answer our study questions. Two study goals were set: First, an effort was made to assess the impact of a planned refusal to accept a number of sources, either in the same country or between countries. Second, an effort was made to assess the attitudes of a proposed donor agreement in the general public, health care professionals, and other stakeholders. Looking at the previous study question, eight articles compared the number of donors between countries and all of them could be associated with the inclusion of additional organ donors, although it was very difficult to isolate them from other parts that were designed to reproduce organ donors. The factors considered to have a positive effect on the number of donors were: more car accidents, head injuries - it's hard to call this positive, but it still affects the growth of organ donors - economic growth and prosperity of the country, good planning of organ donors, religion - Catholic seems more suitable - good education, public access to information, and so on. Five articles included the number of donors in the same country, i.e. in three countries, Austria, Belgium and Singapore, examined before and after the conversion to the intended consent. In these articles, there was a large rise in organ donors following a required change, but it also showed that there was no adequate study of what was being done together with the adjustment that could have possibly affected organ proliferation. When public, health care professionals, or other stakeholders were considered to agree, most of the studies were British. It showed that more and more Brits were willing to accept as time went by. Therefore, the results of investigators are that there is no difference in the growing number of donors when legislation is expected to agree between different countries and countries in the same country before and after the change in law. Many other factors, as above, are important. In Chile, the number of e.g. organ donors after the law was turned into the intended consent. The same was true in Brazil. It may be concluded that new legislation has caused suspicion. The conclusion, then, is that the information needs to be studied by the public and the health care professionals, i.e. that there should be a general agreement and informed consent for such a change. The Spanish have one of the highest rates of donor donors in the world, but they have long had a legal consent. But it was not until the Spanish started a powerful organization, a great education to health care professionals and the public, that the incidence of organ donors increased to a degree. The Spanish believe that good education for health care professionals is particularly responsible for the growing number of relatives arguing and refusing permission to give organ transplants. Thus, the team examined the Spanish system in particular. Spain's effectiveness is based on, among other things. on legislation intended to agree, coordinated training programme, information and presentation, adequate health care, hospital coordination and quality control. Spain has more beds in intensive care and more doctors for every population than any other country. Workers are well trained to identify brain deaths, to approach families, to bring bad news, to deal with tragedy, to respond to refusal of family members, to culture, to communicate with the media, and to legal matters. A cohesor is the cornerstone of the success in Spain. The quality control, diagnostic procedures, and results are monitored within each hospital. They have a low relative denial rate, perhaps. because they detect systematic reasons to refuse and react. So there's a very rigid follow-up and inspection. Spanish have no age limit on brain deaths of donors. The 1979 law on consent did not change much, but the above factors are also of great importance. Mr. President. I would like to give a special mention of one Dutch study on the effects of community discussion and propaganda. In the Netherlands, legislation assumes a foregone denial, while it has been organized for introductions in the Netherlands. As a result, it has become quite old but interesting. In 1998, all citizens were sent registration programs for organ transplant, and 36% returned. At the same time, there were commercial campaigns, TV, radio, and magazines, posters, brochures, etc. The growth of organ donors included a slight leap from 2004 when much public discussion began in the community regarding the changes in law in the direction of consent, but the matter did not go through the council. The conclusion is that campaigns and social discussions are having an effect, but they seem to diminish considerably over time. It seems similar in this country, i.e. A land surgeon's web will experience a twitching when the discussion is in progress in the community and then a registration will fall into place. A respectable president. I don't necessarily intend to review the results of more research and study articles on organ transfusion, but in a report of the work group all mentioned, a brief summary of their findings is available for those interested in the case. At a meeting of the work group with the Runólfur of nephrologists and the head of Kristinn Sigvaldason in the intensive - care unit at a State Hospital in Fos Soggi, they said that the experience in other nations showed us that we need to work at all fronts in order to achieve success in the proliferation of organ donors, i.e. with training of personnel, clinics and co-ordination in this field as well as changing legislation. With the permission of a president, I would like to quote the words of the son of Runólfur Pálsson, who, in fact, said: "I do not know what I am doing. "Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: ▪ The nations that have built up an internal organization but have not changed the legislation have proved to be less successful than those that have done both. The same applies to those nations that have only modified legislation and not built up an internal organization and provided progressive public instruction. The effectiveness of Spain and Norway is admirable, and we should look there and imitate them. The service group raised a question about whether they considered it right to wait for a change in legislation to be acceptable, but they immediately begin a targeted education for the staff and the general public and initiate internal planning in medical institutions, then measure results after a few years, and decide whether to change the legislation or if it became necessary. Runólfur and Kristinn men agreed that all these tasks needed to be carried on. They claimed that they had tried to improve operations in institutions for years. Other nations had experience in that matter, and if there was a will, they could be replaced by a process in Icelandic institutions. They stressed, however, that the process would be futile if people were to deny the gift of organ service. Therefore, public education and discussion need to be done constantly. A surgeon's database is sure to improve, but in fact, all of us would need to be enrolled in it so that we can improve our effectiveness. The experience of other nations shows that a database has little effect on the rate of gift, and I refer them back to the Dutch experience. The major project in these physicians'assessment is that governments will take sides on whether we are willing to turn the law into their intended consent. Modified legislation alone will not change much, but experience shows that the countries that are agreed to have a higher rate of organ donors. A Kristinn noted that it would be easier for employees working with families during these difficult times to have legal support for the purpose of approval. I would like to add that the doctors we met in Sahlgrensk also stressed this. It would be extremely important for the staff in this situation to keep the law behind them. Their conclusion, then, was that a change in law would help a great deal and that we could do much more in this regard than we have been doing. Mr. President. One of the most important factors in increasing organ donors is the training and education of healthcare professionals. Although there are only certain groups of health care professionals who are directly involved in organ donors, it is important that as many health care professionals have basic organ knowledge. It is therefore preferable to educate as most prospective health care professionals in general about organ transplants at the base school. A simple, systematic way might be achieved by the objective that most health - care professionals receive a positive sample of organ donors and may participate in conversation there. The staff investigated whether this was being done in basic medical and nursing education at the University of Iceland. In response, it may seem that there is some talk about organ transplants, but not to a sufficient degree. This can be corrected in an orderly way, e.g. in a monthly medical seminar, nursing students, and even more health groups that were completing basic education. It would discuss the benefits, ethics, and the organization of organ transplants, the criteria for organ transplant, and the database of the surgeon general. In this context, it may be very helpful to receive the viewpoints of transplant recipients and relatives of donors. In the United States, doctors and nurses are primarily attending emergency departments, intensive care departments, and intensive care departments at Akureyri, which are being trained today. This type of trainingprograms exist and are experienced in a variety of ways. Norwegians have organized a special training course for health care professionals, NOROD, but their method is very similar to that of the EDHEP Institute European Donor Hospital Education Program, which has been very effective, since 1993. The training team also include organ donors, surgeons, intensive care professionals, intensive care staff, and members of the clergy. The primary objective of the group is to provide health care professionals with sufficient opportunities to acquire knowledge and skills to participate in organ - related activities. Sahlgrenska University Hospital in Gothenburg is the hospital where Iceland deals with organ transplants, as mentioned earlier. In Sahlgrenska you will do according to the work of EDHEP, i.e. The European network, the European Hospitals Agency for organ transplantation. The service group was invited to meet with the Sahlgrenska Hospital educational team and had a very up - to - date meeting. In Sahlgrenska, primary attention should be given to promptly identifying patients who are potential organ donors and what needs to be done in order to maintain organ preservation while undergoing organ transplantation. Also, how to approach the families of terminally ill patients for this purpose. It is important that healthcare professionals have special training in brain death, possible organ transfusion and its effectiveness. It is important that others come up with a talk about organ transplant but only those who have been caring for the patient. In the United States, a small, specialized group of doctors has organized programs for health care professionals without having special support or support. The head of the intensive care unit in Fos Soggi, Kristinn Sigvaldason, has had medical responsibility for the administration of organ transplants in this country. The surgeon general has been assigned to the management and management of this project, including running a donor registration database. A surgeon's office may also be assigned to organize and coordinate education for healthcare professionals. At a meeting with the staff, Runólfur Pálsson said that the donor rate in Iceland was low, since we were missing out on possible gifts. The reasons why this would include: that there were no compatible and organized systems in the organisations and departments involved in this case, i.e. The intensive care unit of the Land Hospital, possibly emergency department, and the Akureyri Hospital. Also, in his opinion, we need to link the operation to the Ring Road better than in the Fos Cove. He believes that a co-star needs to be in place that monitors the project and ensures quality control, training and that all shifts are always trained personnel. According to this, the results of the transplant training and training programme were that a thorough training and education programme for healthcare professionals was needed as well as an estimate of costs. It is important that doctors and nurses within the departments listed previously in the country receive training as described in NOROD in Norway and in Sahlgrenska. A respectable president. If we're going to turn the law into an approved agreement, then effective and organized social discussions are absolutely fundamental. A forward bill assumes that the public is informed and has the opportunity to register as an organ donor or an anti-organ donor in a central database that has already been established by the surgeon. A number of studies have been conducted on the success of organ donors. Conversations within families and friends are fundamental; talk in the media is crucial; education to the public is the basis of change. With regard to the campaigns itself, the best thing to do has to do with personal experience. In larger communities, there is a lack of confidence in the health authorities, especially in the decisions of brain death and other factors. Icelanders are generally well informed, only one university hospital, trust in the health system and staff are present here, the greater part of the nation is a Christian religion and a family in general, so the individuality of Icelandic society is an option in these matters. It is proper to look to the decades'experience of the Blood Bank - now I speak so much that I need to have a little drink and other Icelandic institutions about education and presentation. The service group agreed that the Icelandic public did not fear corruption by health authorities, but it was urgent that a well-trained team cared for everything that had gone by and that careful procedures should be in place, regular instruction to the general public on how brain death is decided and other aspects related to organ transfusion. At a meeting of Runólfur with Pálsson's son Sigvaldason, it was observed that the proportion of those who refuse a gift has been greatly reduced, following the media talk about Kristjánsson Andri Kristánsson and his family. The negative ratio was 40%, but it's down to 25% when I last knew. Therefore, governments need to ensure adequate funding for long periods of public coverage and access to databases and information on organ donors. The educational material, books, brochures, and more has been published in Norway and Sweden that could be available and used here on land. In Norway, Stiftelsen Organonjonsion, a public agency, works for the Norwegian State, which has the responsibility of informing the public about organ donors and encouraging them to register themselves as donors. The Agency provides a constant monitoring and response to community media, which is one of the most important aspects of communication and communication with the public. Social media are a high level of activity as well as strong websites and quick reflexes in electronic communication. This approach requires continuous monitoring and prompt response. The Agency also has its own education to study in high school. There are transplant recipients and their children. The Agency has also published a health care professional manual designed for children when involved. The Agency has good cooperation with the media, share experiences, and facts about organ donors. Norwegians have produced a children's manual on organ donors that could be located and used here on land. By distributing it to the entire elementary school of the country and using e.g. teaching a game of life could lead to discussions about issues among a large group of people of the country; schoolchildren, siblings, parents, and teachers. Mr. President. I have now ran over the content of the articles of the staff to the minister in March 2015. In Iceland, there are no special rules for those who are spiritually or physically unable to make organ transplant decisions. However, such is the case in both the Norwegian and the Swedish legislation, which is also expected to approve. Whether the decision is made to transform Icelandic legislation into agreement, it is clear that legislation needs to be added to those who are unable to make the decision themselves, as well as to other factors that are not mentioned in Icelandic law on organ donors. She's 27 years old. In the conclusion of the work group, suggestions for improvement are provided, as well as legal adjustments aimed at increasing the number of donors in the country. I see that I have a short period of time left, so I'm not going to read them up, but these are suggestions for what has been mentioned, health care professionals, public, and other things. V.E.G. President. Following this payoff and observation, the minister of the 144th legislation reported on how to increase the number of donors from dead people in Iceland. The proposals of a minister were perfectly consistent with the results of the task force. The estimated cost at this time was 2,2530 billion. K. So when I looked for information on the situation during the early part of 2017, I was disappointed to learn that there were no measures based on the results of a medical report. However, the implementation of regulations has been carried out by the surgeon's office and National Hospital on the quality and safety of organs in transplantation, particularly in case of organ traceability during organ transplantation. A respectable president. Finally, I'd like to say this: The main objective of all our discussions and research has been to examine our ability to increase the number of donors, for we see that the demand for organ systems will be greatly increased because of the increasing age of our life. However, there is another factor that I feel is stronger in this matter, and that is love. Love involves giving to others a gift of life and a gift for a better life. If we are willing to accept an organ, we should be ready to donate an organ. I think it's the right approach to our social agreements of our laws. For example, the book Civility of Life and Death by Vilhjálmur Árnason, a professor of philosophy, discusses moral standards for donors, such as those on the self - determination rights of individuals. That, in fact, is what the Bible says. by permission of the President: ▪ Morally, it is far more important to be aware of the person's opposition to organ removal than of its approval. In a civilized society, it is reasonable to assume that the person wants to come to his neighbor's aid in distress rather than that he rejects it. That's kind of the point, a respectable president. I repeat again and again that I really hope that it will happen now that a bill will be approved. We've had a very good conversation in recent years, the media have drawn attention to the subject regularly, and it seems to me in general that there has been a wake-up call and that the Icelanders are generally positive for the change in these laws. I think it's a long time. I see that I have time to do so, and I want to tell you that this week there was a premiered French movie in the University of England that had to do with a French movie week. Her name is Life or Life. I recommend that people see this movie. It is well - designed, realistic, and informative. So it's about organ transplants. After the film show, there were some of us on a platform table, I, the news name "Runólfur Pálsson," Kjartan Birgisson, an organ entourage, Steinunn Rósa, mother of Skarphéðinn Andri's Andra, and philosopher Árnason Arnam. During a conversation with a movie visitor, Vilhjálmur the Year's Árnason said that he had worked around the 1991 Law code a great deal. He said that he was so surprised that we hadn't changed the law yet; he thought we would change them soon after they were put in 1991; he felt that the moral evidence was strong. Yet, he thought it only natural to begin with the need for us to figure out the legislation and this object, organ donors, that the public had time to figure it out, and that the government would need to educate the public so that there was information. But 27 years later, nothing has happened. The legislature is unchanged. [[The president calls.]] We need to consider this matter and hopefully make some adjustments.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u64	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss here a bill to correct the alteration of the organ resection that's about to be approved. Interpretations for organ resection are No. 16/1991. Hv. A senator and 1st of this bill moved here a story on the matter and has done so five times, as she mentioned. In connection with how often the dog gets. A senator has provided the bill with a public discussion, and the subject's discussion is considered very important. It is important that the progress of this issue be carried out. Such discussions are not just necessary, they are needed, and they can be vital. The first act of organ resection was given in 1991. Then there must be the approval of the donor who gives the target organ or the nearest health care provider for the removal of an organ. In this context, many refer to the approach to denial. There are many things that can happen when we discuss the matter on this basis, whether it is intended to refuse, as the law expects today, or as is intended to agree, as is the legal adjustment proposed in the bill. The right of self - determination has been spoken of, that it should be respected. When we discuss the matter in this context, we may wonder how enlightened we are. Here we play into emotions, religious rules, moral factors that influence attitudes and attitudes. We have to go through the discussion about how we are approaching the subject. Often, circumstances allow the decision to be taken from the very emotional situation. You can imagine if at that moment it is not difficult to face such a decision. So here it is being proposed to make a change in assuming that the deceased wanted to give his organs, unless he has recorded or expressed himself against them, and that he will bring them back to his immediate ills, or that they will lie against it. Here, the fundamental change is to make sure that there is a supposed denial to what we call a consent. It may sound simple, but the goal is always the same, to save lives or to improve quality of life, depending on events. When we discuss this at the General Assembly, it is part of the discussion that I brought up on policy and ways needed to discuss, regardless of whether the law allows a consent or a refusal. The discussion is important, as is the need for development. The objective is undisputed, to increase the number of donors. It must be important to look for all possible ways to do so. Based on the information that came in ... ina reportof a staff to the highest level. Healthcare Minister of March 1, 2015, as it were. paritaprevir Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gunsdótttir and manager of the case, actually got very good at it, as it was. A member of that working group, shows that the legislation is in more countries but fewer where there is a agreement, i.e. There are others whose legislation assumes to agree with organ donors, and they are careful to investigate the will of caregivers. This is what has happened in the North countries. The report also says that in Sweden, victims cannot retract consent, which was recorded prior to death. Here's a suggestion for a change in accordance with the legislation in force in the North countries, but it has truly been debated whether such an adjustment put into place will actually result in the growth of organ donors, as it is intended. For example, the review of Iceland's Medical Association with the bill was made when it was finally submitted to the last council, which was the only review that was negative about the change, with the permission of the president: ▪[It is not absolutely possible to state that the change from informed consent to the expected consent will significantly alter the number of organ donors. Is referred to Runólfur Runolfs Pálsson's son in the medical journal 2th. in the same year 2017. In the same articleRunólfur Pálsson's president also says that it is not easy to evaluate it, since there were frequently attacks on other actions in parallel to law change. Many believe that it is a form of consent that may make it easier for relatives to accept organ donors and have a positive influence on society's attitude on these matters. Of course, that's just as important, i.e. The social show. Then again I refer to Pálsson's son Runólfur's words in the same article, with permission, that the time has come for the Icelandic legislation to be changed into the intended consent. One writer believes that this is a major factor in social viewpoints. Regarding the impact of such changes, the group of work I referred to reported to the highest level. Minister, scientific articles dealing with the experiences of other nations of such a change of law. Hv. In fact, a prominent speaker made a point of doing so. That's where even the two of them come from. up to that in three countries, Austria, Belgium, and Singapore, there has been a large increase in the rate of such legislation, but the magnitude of the impact of the other factors or actions that have been carried out concomitantly, or have affected the actual growth. So the conclusion is that the change in intended consent alone cannot be explained as the difference between increasing numbers of donors. As far as I can see, attitudes toward consent have become more positive over the years. So I testify again in the report, according to a survey of 64% of the public in the United Kingdom, agreed to accept, however, for denial, if I remember correctly, as here is. That survey was conducted in 2007. This is consistent with a recent study conducted here in a country where it appears that a greater proportion of the public are agreed to agree. In the social context, I had the opportunity of seeing a French movie, and I refer to it. The author of the case that referred to this movie, which is involved in this subject, including the moment when the caregivers, parents, need to face up to the issue of whether or not to give their organs away. It's done in this movie in a very tricky and effective way. Following this movie, there was a Cutlight interview, Runólfur Runlafur Pálsson, and Steinunn Rósa's Einarsdóttir, the mother of Skarphéðinn Andri, the Kristjánsson of Kristafon. In the case of Steinunn Resa, it was Rósa that transplants had helped a great deal in the grieving process that the family went through. I wanted to mention it here. During the interview, Steinunn encouraged them to talk, whether they were present or not, to take sides. She says: The experience of organ donors is extremely good. You don't need to be afraid to say yes. I mention it here because it is very important for people to give up on such discussions and to talk openly about difficult things. Steinunn Rósa says that this is something that really mattered to the family and that encourages people to think about it. We would like to say that the purpose of the weekend means that the discussion will be beneficial then. However, the goal must always be to increase the number of donors by all means available in order to save lives and in some cases improve quality of life. So it is my hope that the matter will now be brought to pass and, as always, a detailed and careful discussion of the subject. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u65	A respectable president. A brief note of things I would like to hear from the movingmen in the organ - breeding process. It is not too far, but it is something we need to consider that in the near future and that it would likely ease the stress of organ donors as possible in the near future based on the speed of technology. The problem is fast. Usually, or often, people require rapid organ transplant because of an accident or an accident, and then one, two, and three are not capable of cultivating an organ. But you have seen attempts to have neutral organs that do not make allergies, so your body does not reject them. I was wondering if it had been considered how far until the WBC legislation on organ transfusion would even be unnecessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u66	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The question and counterargument of the growth of organs are answered by Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. First, I'd like to say that I don't trust to measure how far we are going in that material or to determine medically whether the body operates or rejects such organs. I expect technology and science will deal with it. Like I came into my speech and what. An authority is also a case such as this change, a claim or a consent, always a moral subject, and a respect for it and the self - determination of individuals. There are also religious issues involved. I'm just walking through this change of law and I don't trust to answer a big question.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u67	Mr. President. We'll discuss a bill to correct the alteration of organ resection. As shown in the case of the movers, they have become a fairly mature law, starting to collapse in the 1920's. I want to thank you for showing me the pleasure of bringing this case over and over again. This is a very important case, i.e. organ available for organ transplantation. There is a persistent shortage of them, not just in Iceland, but in fact around the world. As sad as it is in organs, it is usually very unexpected and usually associated with tragedy. As transporters have come in handy, at that point it is often very difficult to approach the survivors and to do what should or may be done next. It's hard to deal with. I know from my job that this is not something that can be done lightly or with great skill at all, because it is so rare. There's not much of a case like this. There's a lot of opinions in this case. In other parts of the world, for example, there are patterns that have been used by humans in trying to bring in what we have usually called informed agreements for donor organ donors, including has several countries, to form most of the United States states, started asking for permission when a driver receives permission to give an organ if something should arise. In many respects, that is not unusual. It's in accidents, like car accidents, that's the main organ supply. This is the route that's gone there. It simply marks a small red heart on a driver's license whether he or she is a donor. It's one way. In Iceland, however, we do define them, at least most of them, who are given permission as children at age 17. But you might think that when they renew their license and get permanent licenses, as expected at the age of 18, they might ask the question, of course, in a tricky way, and so people knew what the mountain was doing. However, it does not diminish the importance of this bill. That does not mean that a bill like this could not work out. There would be one other way, let's say the easy conversation with the survivors and the next if in very few cases there is some sort of position on the question. It is generally seen in all health care and in all places where the general rule is to get informed consent for what is being done. Sometimes this is the nature of the situation in a relatively informal way, but sometimes in order to form when there are complex and extensive operations, it is important that the person or person undergoing medical treatment know exactly what this is about. It's actually taught in most medical sciences, at least to those I know, that it's the normal standard, the rule. Without the fact that I'm going to give myself a basis for taking medical advice or medical advice over the years, you may have the idea that their background knowledge of similar matters had caused something to happen there. Granted, there are also other common contact styles that might be asked the same question or finding ways to do so, but it is best to keep it simple. It can be rolled up. I assume that the matter will go to the welfare committee and that it will include those factors. The bill speaks of a dead person. Then it is likely that it would be appropriate to avoid moving around to see if a dead person is meant in that sense or whether this refers to a brain - dying individual. The bill would have to be explained in some way. It is so that the greatest hope in organ hunting is for brain deaths of individuals and has been able to keep at least Other than that, your heart is walking and your body's function until it is permitted to use the organs. At the end of my speech, I want to thank the move again and again for the pleasure of keeping the matter alive and walking and hoping in earnest that we will have the wisdom to complete the matter at this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u68	A respectable president. I loved it. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson has been working as a doctor for years, and he has very good knowledge of this subject. I'd like to ask the senator and hear his view of what I mentioned in my introduction here regarding possible changes in staff training and coordination within the institutions and between them. When we considered the education and education of health care professionals in this field, I mentioned that it seems rather limited and more random than formal. I wanted to hear a little more about how the senator feels about it and how he envisions that we can change that. I also ask if he agrees that a change in the direction of agreement will make it easier for health care professionals to approach their caregivers and be able to make this decision. As the senator mentioned, these are very few cases each year. I think I'm correct in saying that Runólfur Runlfur Pálsson was here on Monday at the French Expo that there were only three out of every 1,000 people who could be considered as gifts. These are very few individuals a year, and there are numbers of these at the surgeon's office. I see my time is up, but I'm getting more on the next counter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u69	Mr. President. I appreciate that question from what? paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir. For trained personnel or health students, it may not be possible to say that it is random. But she's small, still someone. This may be especially in the course of ethical topics, where this discussion is developed and also to some extent related to hand medicine. Of course, there are also other health sciences, at least In medicine, these matters may not be in an orderly way simply because they are discussing how the body rejects both transfusions and other organs discussed in connection with organ donors. It's not that health professionals in general don't know the discussion, but I think it would be a good thing to take it more and more in ethical terms, it might be very important. I think that's true too, as well. A senator came on, approach like this, or perhaps some approach that made it easier for an organ to appear, to be of good quality, and might be of great importance. Let us see that this is not just in the domestic context that counts. This is also important in the fact that the majority of organs the Icelanders accept from donors do not come from domestic gifts but from foreign countries. In the end, it may not be normal for us to be accepters in this regard, even though it may not be possible to say that we can increase the offer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u70	A respectable president. Something else that came up anyway. The senator was the opinion of the Medical Association. Hv. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson also came into it earlier and read the comments of the Medical Association when the bill was submitted, that I am holding a 143th Council. The Society's position has been rather negative against law change. Hv. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson may explain a little more clearly what that opposition involves. I'd like to hear from what happened. A senator: When the case was presented to 143th, the surgeon had not established this database. He came later, actually in the fall of 2014, if I remember correctly. I think it was opened in November that year. I wanted to reflect on this, because the medical community's position, if I correctly understood the senator, is based on the patient's being informed first and last. Given that public information is guaranteed by the government, as mentioned above, by the publication of children's books, by discussions in elementary schools, by high schools, by advertising, and by a special tool that ensures information to the public, the media, etc. - the fact that this database is now in place and active, doesn't the senator agree that on that basis it can be considered that the public really approves? If so, are we aware of the change in law, and what is involved? I'm asking if the senator thinks it is possible that the Medical Association will soften its stand on these grounds, that there is a database, and information to the public is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u71	Mr. President. Now, in itself, I don't know if the Medical Association has anything special to do with changing my mind on this matter or will view it as a better source of information and more information to be assured of. In the ethical question, it may also not be important because it is one of the principles, when a person has made a decision about treatment or non-treatment, that the individual can always change his or her mind. Transporters of the bill, in effect, assume that in this case the candidates can change their opinion for the individual in the event of a change. Since that prince's attitude is actually honored, I don't know if this point per se would change the position of some health - care group or group in a town. On the other hand, I think the change is happening and the opportunities for organ transplants, and how we can work with tissue from foreign individuals for medical purposes and to improve quality of life, would be more likely to change the thinking or attitude that might appear from health professionals on how we should work these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u72	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Ólafur Not only does Þór Gunnarsson, for both his discussion of the matter with great knowledge that the doctor has, but he also has helpful suggestions. One was that in the case of organ donors, it would have to be some way in which to specify the exact timing of a deceased person is involved. I'm here to do only a diagnosis found on the surgeon's website involved in this case. But I know for sure that it is. A senator is well acquainted with all such definitions, the nature of a matter, but he would like to ask, Is there any such reference that is necessary in a paper with the bill and the procrastination? A welfare committee can then cooperate with it. A surgeon's web is used in this way and asked. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ What causes of death might be considered mainly for the administration of an organ? ▪ Brain death release is essential for the use of organs for transplantation. The organs can then be removed before the circulation stops and are damaged. The most common causes of cerebral death are bleeding or cerebral vascular occlusion or major head injury that causes irreversible brain tissue damage. It asks if brain death can be confirmed with certainty: ▪ When the blood supply to the brain stops at all, widespread damage occurs called brain death. I'm asking why. A member of the council whether there is something like that he feels needs to be shown up in a report.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u73	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson respond. Yes, in my opinion it is necessary to define it in some way and to state that it is something of this kind. I think it's important because any doubt that can be destroyed, let's say, in the decision-making process, is very important, especially for survivors. The fact that these questions and speculations are not raised until it is absolutely clear that the affected patient will not return to any intellectual life. That's basic. I agree with the senator that it would be helpful to see this in the report, or subheading, to form the paragraph read by the senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u74	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson for his tip and explain what he feels is important in a report. Now it's up to you. The welfare committee. It's good to know that what. A senator has just a seat in his head. The welfare committee. I hope that these indications can be taken into consideration, moving on and improving the situation. Hv. At the same time, a member of the council came on one of his talks. I'm going to take this opportunity in a later answer and ask him what is often called informed consent, that we record in some way our willingness to give of organs. Hv. A senator mentioned it when we take a driving test. Any other options? Now it is possible to access a surgeon's web and record it. Asking if this should be anywhere else. There have been other ideas, to form a tax report when we commit it. Whether or not there are any other possibilities, and if this should happen, there should be a lot of evidence if we go that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u75	Mr. President. Yes, there are quite more opportunities, perhaps not in daily life than in what we do as adults to ask people. One way is to ask when people apply for electronic identification, something like that. I think the idea to ask as soon as people take a car test is actually two-way, i.e. The purpose of that question is two things: On the one hand, if people answer by themselves, but they also come to realize that driving a vehicle and handling the responsibility of operating a motor vehicle, these situations may arise. That's why it's so important there. I may not be saying that it has a preemptive value, but in some respects it is. That is why it is important to ask. I don't know about the tax report. I just haven't really wondered if it applies to you. But it's natural for all of these matters that I'm not sure that it's good to distribute them very widely in the community, i.e. The question or speculation. It's where society's small. We are a very small society. Almost everyone knows it. I don't think it's good that these speculations are in the hands of many public parties or even some other person. Rather, they are tried as simply and clearly as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u76	A respectable president. I present a report by the Council of Europe by 2017, and I would like to have the practice of speaking in memory only in general about the Council of Europe and the Council of Europe and about the Council of Europe, briefly reviewing what was at the top of the European Parliament last year. And I think that's a good idea, because it seems to me that the replacement chairman of the Iceland Department, huh? paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir, has said good-bye and will further report on the work taken by the Iceland Department and on the affairs she gave to the Council of Europe last year. However, only to review, the role of the European Council is to protect the core integrity of Member States in terms of human rights, democracy and legalities, as well as the role of promoting economic and social progress. To that end, even the Council uses his power. The format and agreement of a binding international agreement. Controversies and international treatys of the European Council have had widespread impact on the entire continent. The number of covenants of the Council in various aspects of national life is an important measure for nations that are developing democracy and justice, but the measure of the European Council also applies to other international organisations and international organisations. It features the European Convention and the European Social Convention. Since the end of the Cold War, the Council of Europe has been The key role of supporting democracies in CEE countries, including with technical assistance in the area of law and government development, as well as election control. The number of members of the Governing Body has increased rapidly since the Berlin Wall fell and is now 47. Montenegro is the newest member of the United States, which broke off national relations with Serbia after a national payment in May 2006 and became a member of the Council of Europe in May 2007. As a result, the European Council's countries form one unbroken geographic entity in the continent, with the exception of White Russia. The European Parliament is a representative of the 47 member states of the European Parliament. At the council, 324 agents and just as many are represented. Unlike the Council of Europe's Ministers, where each country has one vote, a number of delegates will follow the size of a nation. At the council, there are nine regular committees and six groups. At that time, the president, 20 vice presidents, presidents of regular committees and groups of members of the Council's Commission, oversees its internal affairs. The same group appoints the Parliament's board of directors, along with the heads of the departments of the country. It gathers quarterly, one week at a time, usually in January, April, June, and October. The Council of Europe is a kind of the European Parliament's concept of politics, economics, social issues, human rights, environmental and energy, cultural and educational issues. During the last year of the European Parliament, which was quite significant for many reasons, as this event will be killed, the greatest refugee problem in Europe, the European Parliament's corruption issues, and the communications between the Russians and the European Parliament. In general, the place of the democracy institutions in Turkey and debates in the Nagorno-Karabakh region between the Armena and Azerbaijan and Ukraine was also high. The subject of refugees was discussed at each assembly in 2017. In the Parliament's recommendation on the overall response to the European refugee stream, the Parliament urged Member States to recognize that national transport continued to increase and that they are the basis for Europe's renewal and development. In view of the European Union's reaction to Mediterranean migration, it is concluded that following a European Convention with Turkey and a closed border, refugees were exposed to the Balkans and Hungary reduced by 83%. However, this operation did not affect the coming of refugees from North Africa. The Parliament challenged the EU to be present in the Mediterranean during search and rescue, to increase its action against people's molds, and to improve cooperation with the libical government. In Europe, Italy and Greece, the poor accessories of refugees were reviewed, and Europe was encouraged to take on a greater degree of responsibility for the reception of refugees. Some were discussed about the vulnerable groups of refugees, especially the means for providing escorted children with no children. Reports of the corruption of the Council of Europe made their appearance on the work of the council. It was reported during the year that several senators had accepted a bribe from the government in Azerbaijan in connection with the surveillance of human rights and elections in that country. The president of the Council of Europe, Pedro Agramunt, a member of the Federal Council of Spain, was found to be unrupted and spoken of by corruption himself, a campaign officer in Azerbaijan on behalf of the council. In the spring months, Agramunt traveled on a controversial trip to Syria with Russian assistance and met President Bashar Al-Assad-Asad. As a result of the visit by the district call, groups at the council declared that the president no longer received their trust. However, according to the European Parliament's Council, no formal mistrust arrangement could be provided for votes. However, the European Parliament's Commission met at the April meeting and took away Agramunt's right to make public visits on behalf of the council. During June meeting, the Council's regulations were changed so that the president, vice president, and chairman can be put off as a result of distrust. A distrust proposal was submitted to a summer council, but according to the New Council of Europe's New Council, an untrusted proposal is instituted at the next conference, except for a vast majority of the members of the United States sign it. So the October meeting was scheduled for a formal mistrust proposal, but the day before the discussion, Agramunt explained that there were health reasons. Stella Kyriakides, a member of the country in Greece and a member of a group of conservatives, was elected president in 2017. As in recent years, Russia was involved in the Ukraine conflict and the political situation at the Crimea and East Ukraine on top of the magazine in the work of the Council of the Council of Europe last year. In April 2014, Russia's national division was removed from voting rights in the European Parliament because of Russian access to the conflict. Since then, Russia has not appointed a national department, so it has not been part of the Council of Europe for the past three years. During a 2016 October meeting, the Council again condemned Russia's entry into the conflict and illegal intervention in the Crimea. During the summer of 2017, Russia's and European Parliament still deteriorated when Russia announced that they would not contribute to the Council of Europe until their national department was granted an irreprehensible vote in the Council of Europe. Russia is one of the nations that pay the highest budget for the Council of Europe and the Council of Europe. At the fall council, the council agreed on a recommendation called upon the order of the Ministers of the Committee and the European Parliament to participate in the Member States of the European Council. The recommendation was agreed with much more than that, but the decision to change the rules of the European Parliament was taken so that the Council is not able to deprive the national department of its voting rights. Russia would then be able to appoint a new regiment without risking losing its voting rights. As the members of the hall here hear, there is life and excitement at the European Parliament. As I came to the entrance, the Council of Europe meetings may be held four times a year, but in 2017, only two meetings of four were held for the election here in October 2016 and again on October 28, 2017. I'm going to give this a good name for now, Mr. President, but I think that an advanced chairman of the Iceland Department can tell us a few things about the issues that were presented by the League's members within the council, they are many and very interesting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u77	Mr. President. I thank you for this dramatic presentation, as I am the senior chairman of the European Parliament and thank the current chairman for his history. As we have been through this year, the European Parliament's meetings had a measure of life and satisfaction, and it seems that there is no room for us to be there. There, as they say, various grasses teach. Turkey and Russia may be the largest theme these days as regards how national groups are guarding these key principles of the European Parliament, which are human rights, democracy, and the state of justice. There have been a number of developments in these two countries and their continued cooperation with the Council of Europe because of widespread violations of human rights and impairments in those countries and the success of invasion wars. I've only been close to what Iceland's departments have been doing, but I'm going over who was in the Iceland Department last year, with me as president of them. Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, and Vilhjálmur the son of Árnason, were chief men, and Bjarkey Olsen, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, and Birgis the Birgir of Ármannsson, were chief of them; and Ásta Guðrún, the daughter of Helgadóttir, was an assistant to me. As may be known to all of the Americans, the new Iceland Department of Iceland was Kosin on December 14, 2017, and now the nobles are President Resak Brynjólfsdóttir Brylflfólóttir, President Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Övarsdótir, I, vice president and Bergþór Ólason of the Middle Party. The defenses are Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son from the left green, Halldóra Mogensen of the Pirates, and Birgir Þórarinsson of the Middle Ages. As mentioned earlier, the Council of the Council of Europe was attended by only two members of Iceland, and this was a matter of elections, i.e. The Iceland Department had not been set up for the first Congress of January last year, and now, last year, an election fight prevented us from seeing ourselves go. The first meeting held by the Council of Europe at the Council of Europe was meeting at Strasbourg, 24 -◯28. On April 2017 and on the part of the Iceland Department, I personally attended the meeting, Vilhjálmur Árnason and Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, as well as Jörundur the son of Kristjánsson, an active secretary. The main issues on the program were discussion on the efficacy of the republics of Turkey, the position of human rights in the North Claucasus, discussion of progressive discrepancies, measures to protect women from sexual violence, the 25-year European Commission's prevention of torture, the abuse of Interpol's systems, the protection of religious minorities, and the addition of funding to the assistance of refugees in distress and the context of artificial intelligence and human rights. The Parliament made serious comments on the situation in Turkey and the activity of democratic institutions. Following a coup in the summer of 2016, an extended relief law was set up in Turkey, a law that confers on the government of rich people on the basis of an emergency. The Council's decision expressed great concern for the development of events, including those in the United States. Because elected agents at the Turkish Parliament had been taken into custody. Turkey seems to be planning to restore the death penalty. So fashions have been shown that they are not compatible with members of the Council of Europe. The resolution encouraged Turkish authorities to cancel emergency situation on the first and Tyrkis to follow the Venice Commission's counsel on the change in constitution. In his speech on increasing misunderstandings, Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter attributed the influence of liberalism to economic discrimination and emphasized a new approach to economics and the strengthening of the welfare system. The Congress agreed to a conclusion that included... It was encouraged to take action to combat the wages of the sexes. In a special discussion of growing foreigners, especially against Jews and Muslims, Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter was prominently a class of united Europeans, and included them. Because of growing alien hatreds for the economic crisis and how civilism had been given the support of both wings with increasing misunderstandings. I also gave a talk under this part of the program, pointing to the fact that it was not only the economic crisis but also, as well, public speech and term use that would be oil on the fire of a foreign - minded fire, thus pointing to the fact that it was always talking about the refugee crisis, as if it were some unknown size that would be a problem in our lives, not human beings seeking peace and security on Europe's shores. In the discussions about the European Commission's report on the prevention of torture, I again made a cease - time call and welcomed specific suggestions on the increased consultation process called the Law and Rights Committee, the Self - Control Committee, the CPT Committee, and the European Commission's legal and rights committee. I also pointed out that countries such as Iceland, which have a good image, do not fully follow the Commission's recommendations, especially when it comes to forced care and treatment with people with mental disorders and mental disorders, saved in Icelandic institutions. During a discussion about the misuse of Interpol's systems, Vilhjálmur Árnason was leading a class of conservatives. He said law enforcement was the important cornerstone of society, and trust between law enforcement agencies and citizens is a key factor. Therefore, it would be very important that individual Member States do not misuse Interpol's system for arrest and expeditation, and that, apart from the injustice against citizens, this would cause confidence in the Agency. Apart from the standard program of the council, the position of its president was focused, as previously directed, toward this hall, where Pedro Agramunt, president of the Council of the European Parliament, had been called on for a trip to Syria. During the same visit, he offered Congress hearings and later declared groups of people that he did not feel secure in furthering activity. These were the most remarkable interrogations, which included Agramunt. who left their office with money and seemed to be a little bit paranoid. According to the Council of Europe, no formal mistrust arrangement could be proposed. The European Parliament's Commission concluded on the last day of the Council that Agramunt was forbidden to make public visits in the name of the Council of Europe or to make declarations in its name. Agramunt, however, remained as president where he could not be deposed, so to speak, remained the chairman of his country council and was long a well - versed chairman of his group of members in the Council of Europe, so this matter was all the most embarrassing for the Council of Europe. This first assembly of Iceland for this time can be called fairy tales, and many who had even worked there for decades told us that the council was never so active. It was very interesting to observe the dissension of the senators in that chamber who no longer trusted their president, the main issue of his visit to the president of Syria by means of a Russian jet. Not only that, but he was also quite thoroughly implicated in corruption in Azerbaijan, which I would better cross. Some senators, including The two senators who took the president to Syria were also implicated in the corruption issues. So this first spring council of Iceland ended last year. Another meeting of the Iceland Department was held in Strasbourg 26,◯30. June 2017. I found for myself Vilhjálmur Árnason and Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, along with a year-Bylgja secretary's Árnadóttir, in the United States. Main issues on the program were the human rights of refugees, European countries' response to refugee currents, and changes to the Council of Europe. Then the threat of terrorism in Europe, the violence against women in the public areas, and the situation of diplomacy and human rights in the United States, was also under discussion. However, the largest case of the summer council was a proposal for changes in the Council of Europe so that confidence could be expressed in the president of the Council, its vice president, its chairman, its chairman, and its committees. The report and the proposal were responsible for the council and had its origin in a dispute over the president of the council, Pedro Agramunt. At a meeting of the European Commission and the Baltic States, it was decided that I would write a letter to the council to explain the views of the countries on legal matters and to express support for the proposed changes in the council. All the states of the North and the Baltic States signed this letter, and Iceland was responsible for distributing it to members of Congress. Mr. President. I see that I have a lot less time than I expected to go through the many jobs we have here, so I've stopped. I've described these two meetings that we went to, they were particularly interesting, but finally I want to make an effort to treat the European Parliament with the Council. We are not allowed to take as many committees as we should be allowed to make commitments. If we are a nation among the nations in Europe, I feel that we should fulfill our international commitments and finance the travels of members of Congress on this remarkable assembly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u78	The Parliament's president reminds them that if they fail to complete their talks, they will be able to come back up instead of offering the music that is that sound. At the same time, the president would like to inform the council members that if they forget the names of their father, Gunnar, he will be betting that his father's name is over ten.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u79	Mr. President. I'd like to thank you for your discussion and for these excellent reports from an ancient president, Thorhildi Ævarsdóttir Onvarsdóttir, and the new Fine Chairman, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörðurdótir. I attended the European Parliament's winter meeting as an assistant. I'd like to begin by saying that we have here very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very good members of the council who represent this committee, and I was very proud of their actions. Since I come to this as a new senator, I just want to share my experience. This is a very interesting scene. There are 47 different countries that meet, and there are many good things to do. I thought, for example. Interestingly, the program contains issues that are at the top of the current moment, as it were. It was, for example. Discuss the affairs of the Middle East, Israel, and Palestine. The one standing here had the opportunity to say a few words and fine words of an experienced chairman, Thordldur Ævarsdóttir, the daughter of Avvars, there gave a very poor and good speech. This was interesting to me, to be able to come there with our viewpoint on this scene in a relatively simple way. Then the commission work is very interesting, and much is going on, and there are conclusions and other factors. The presidents of the council visit the council, and questions can be made to those who are also interesting and useful for word exchange. So I say for my part that this is something we're supposed to do well. Then I'd like to agree with what an ancient president and the current vice president said earlier, we here may not be interested enough in taking part in this altogether. I'm referring to the General. This needs to be contributed to regular attendance by members of the Parliament. Then I'm referring to this financial aspect of the situation. It is very common for the state to send its deputy to the council. It would naturally make the committee, such as Iceland, more powerful. It's a lot of work. It's a long schedule. It is until the evening, most of the days during the council. If you want to be careful, you have to take good care of this. As more people do, the work becomes more powerful and better. The committee followed a powerful member of the BylgjaÁrnadóttir which was very good to have and did much good to his work. Finally, I just want to mention a case that included both the advanced and the present chairman mentioned in their stories. It's about the Russian part of the council. This is a very sensitive subject, i.e. that, in part, they were to be dismissed in such a way that the right to vote was taken from them. Of course, they did not respond favorably. But I believe it's important for the Russians to come to the council again. It must be done in a way that both parties, i.e. The European Council and the Russians themselves, return to normal landings in these areas. This is important because it has been shown that this is important to the people in Russia. There are violations of human rights there, as in many places in this continent, where these options exist, to refer to the Court of Rights. Russia has fulfilled all its commitments in this regard. They have made contributions related to it. Of course, it is natural and positive for them to do so. It also matters financially that the Russians come back, but of course they should not be the reason to get them back in there. It's far more important that they are needed into this scene because of what I mentioned, we're watching human rights in Russia, and it's important that we keep them in there. I hope there's some landing, but there's certainly a big difference in opinion. Ukraine is for example. I don't think they're going to come in there at all. They mean, in my conversations with Ukrainian senators, that the Russians now have a considerable influence behind the scenes. I don't know what they're saying, but they're not happy with it. We know that discussion. But it does matter. There are certain problems that are linked to the fact that the Russians are not in there. I mentioned the financial issues, but in addition to them, Tyrki and I have paid more than they should, and they have decided to fail. Of course, these are issues that need to be handled effectively. Finally, I would like to express my appreciation for this meeting and this field. It is hoped that we will be able to make a greater, more decisive approach to the governing body in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u80	Mr. President. I decided to take the best advice. President, speak again. However, I was not absolutely sure if my first talk would work. I thought I had plenty of time to review this fine report, as well as to discuss the things I feel at the European Parliament and to be most important. I see, however, that I do not have that long time at all, and I simply encourage people to study the European Parliament's report for the year before last year, for some of the committees are very interesting. I just wanted to discuss a certain committee and commission I've been to the Council of Europe, where I've been working for the European Parliament's Legal and Human Rights Committee, and I've worked there for a certain amount of respect. It was about the report of a legal and human rights committee on the charge and punishment for crimes against mankind and the genocide of an organization known as a Islamic state. The report was presented at the European Parliament October Summit, but as we were in the middle of a campaign, I could not recommend it. Another interesting thing to do in the work of the Legal and Human Rights Committee was when the head of the Committee introduced a report that the same one had negotiated for Azerbaiidjan and its human rights in 2012-2014. The very same day he was going to introduce this report, i.e. On the night before, an article in The Guardian magazine published how the Azersk government had paid a huge amount of money through a shell-and-of-land company to bribe members of the Council of Europe to give a positive report on the Azerbaidian Human Rights movement in 2012-2014. The chairman of the Commission, who was the executive of this opinion, did not intend to mention these activities of Azerbaijan during this same period of time that the report covered, reaching the one here to add as one small adjustment proposal, adopted by at least a greater degree, which was an exciting scenario. However, this led to various research journalists looking at Alain Destexhe, as his name is, the Chairman of the Legal and Human Rights Committee, and the Rapporteurs of this matter. It didn't come to the day when the same person had a small drawer company in his home, which was a particular lobster company for Azerbaijan. Since Destexhe had not declared any rivalry or conflict of interest, when he received this report, he accepted political responsibility and resigned. I wanted to point out these fun or interesting developments. Finally, I'd like to remind you of what I'm good at, huh? paritaprevir The Birgir men of Þórarinsson, they were talking about, i.e. the Russians are trying to use the blackmail to get their votes back to the council. I would like to encourage all in this room to back up the Council of Europe and other nations who have thought to pay more attention to this great counsel so that we can maintain our values and without compromising the blackmail efforts of those who do not want to conform to our values. Finally, I just want to mention that the European Parliament's Legal and Human Rights Committee will come and visit us, i.e. if everything happens. If, after all that has been done, the Council can afford, then the European Parliament's legal and rights committee will come and pick us up at the end of May. I encourage all members of Congress to keep an eye on that. I think there might be a pretty interesting meeting. It will be open to the public and general members of the council. I just wanted to remind you of it here at the end, thanking all those who have led me through my leadership for their good cooperation and wishes a new manager a success in his work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u81	A respectable president. In fact, this is a collection bill, or a so - called tapeworm, which suggests a change of two layers, on the other hand, of annual accounts and of partnerships. The proposal in the bill is simple, that there should be no currency for electronic check-up in the file and that all information should be displayed in an electronic lookup. This bill was also presented for the 147th legislature but could not be discussed, since it was very short. The bill suggests that annual accounts and shareholder files will be more accessible to the public. It is suggested that the same information should be available there and if you pay for a copy of the data from the registry. This information cannot be considered accessible to the public in relation to existing legislation where it needs to be paid. The standard of law was comparable to that of increasing access to a corporate file was adopted at the National Congress of 146th and became a law. The law involved granting public access to an enterprise file without charge. This is a suggestion that data related to those contained in an enterprise file will be produced in the same way. The majority of the enterprises are covered by the cost and income that the government tax manager has from a company file. They're said to be just under 40 million bucks. in 2016. In terms of the taxpayer's currency, it cannot be estimated that there is a special charge for a year's bill or a partner file. Rather, it seems to charge for that data through a company file. So the cost is not great. Communicators in the enterprise registry included: The Society Data Association, which showed the importance of public interest, the acdemic analysis and the multimedia that these data are available, was one reason for changing the law laid out on corporate records that reports that could have changed to the community debate simply did not result in the accumulation of enterprises and linked enterprises through annual accounts and shareregistry, perhaps cost 50 you. K. It was too high a price tag for one news that a corporate complex was created inside a company file. We now complete the process that we started on a company file, which gives us access to those who are directors, etc. and more data on this subject, changes in management, cashiers, and the like and approved associates, by opening in exactly the same way as the World Council previously agreed on by all paid terms for annual accounts and partner records. I guess it's due to the previous Generals'release in a similar manner. I can't wait to see it fly through.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u82	A respectable president. Here's the second of three that I have today. I don't know if I'd get the third case, but instead of going to the President's conference board, I would have wanted the third case with the other two. But for some reason, there are other three cases, and I have to take care of a family today, pick up a child at a nursery school, etc., so we'll see how this works. I'm gonna try to get over it quickly. That's more important than the other two. This case is a synonym, where the Council concludes to hide travel, industrial and judicial Ministers, and prepare and provide a legal bill that includes a review of several laws on property sales and ships, on real estate purchases, and on plagiarism with the following guidance: that users of used estates intended for apartments become obliged to include state reports. So when I'm going to sell an apartment, I'll have to put in the state-of-the-view package so that those who buy or study have access to information about the condition of the apartment. Like it's all equal now, the person who makes an offer at the flat buys a view of the apartment, but if the person stops buying and another likely buyer does a new offer, the same person needs to buy a new status check. There's a lot of repetition that's unnecessary. Such an arrangement is even. in Norway, where the state report comes with the exact sale. The B-involved suggests that those who provide status reports for selling real estate will be responsible for the failings of their value in any way and that their reports were not specified and that they should have professional guarantees that will ensure the destruction of buyers and sellers of real estate when their failures lead to reform. In the c- team, it is suggested to contribute, without making it a direct law, to owners of real estates intended for an apartment, to keep a maintenance diary that has been obtained electronically under the fixed number of property. It's actually very similar to keeping your driving diary, signing and checking when you change your oil, etc. It is not an obligation to keep up with it, but it would likely increase confidence in the sales process. In addition, previous evaluations have been carried out. They probably fall right into the maintenance diary, so at least a prior assessment can be made and a difference between the opinion published at the sale and the previous sale. Finally, a d- team suggests that simple legalizations such as property sales can be arranged, contract signing, and holding of property through services such as isopolis. You see, business with apartment houses is very difficult. They are usually the largest business shared by individuals and families in their lives, and much of their resources depend on that trade. Investment in an apartment home is usually also an investment in a home. It is very important that the rules regarding such transactions increase the safety and security of consumers and reduce the damage and unnecessary conflicts and judicial issues. Then it is important to keep people from experiencing life in delinquency, a state of awareness about the dangers resulting from which they have been exposed. So far, no significant improvements have been made in this field. This suggestion suggests that a minister be assigned to make some adjustments in order to improve the situation of consumers. It is emphasized that housing status will become known to all sources involved in real estate transactions, i.e., buyers, sellers, and intermediate groups. By doing so, the likelihood of a business with a local home might be greatly reduced to the appearance of secret faults, with the related costs for buyers, traders, and society. It is suggested that there be clear rules on responsibility due to defects not included in the state reports. State reports are made for property sales, but these are often purchased by oers and buyers today. Their access to property, in turn, is not the same as seals, which can produce inferior reports, as well as that it is unavoidable that two or more bids make a state report for the same real estate, much less when you have heard that both the seller and the buyer make state reports to be absolutely certain that everything is okay. But when the person making the inspection is already guaranteed, there is much more trust behind it, that it is professional. However, certain market conditions may arise in order not to report such conditions, which for example, when there is a high demand for housing, the cost of real estate inspection may be considered as a purchase offer for deduction, i.e. you are more likely to be choosing a purchase offer where you will not be asking for advance for a state-of-the-view. The obligation to have a state report among goods can be greatly reduced inconsistencies and judicial matters following the sale of housing. Such a step would reduce unnecessary expenses and reduce the quality of business. Thus, the buyer would have better information on the quality of the home in the earlier process and the safety of the segregators as the quality and accuracy of sales statements and other data were increased. This made it possible for the intermediate to provide better, more accurate information, and thus better service. A maintenance home diary has a purpose comparable to that of the oil diary for cars. A maintenance diary can include information such as when major building projects are performed. However, such maintenance journals are not expected to be kept, but better information on house - to - house living is required to increase confidence in business matters with that property. It will even be effective in maintaining real estates to be able to look up this information well back in time. It may also help to counter black operations in maintenance of buildings where the buyer's service and the addition of an apartment building would like to have the registration of the maintenance diary, which would hardly be done at all if it was won black. One of the main objectives of this proposal is to simplify communication between sealers and buyers of housing, as well as landlords and tenants, in the preparation and disposal of other necessary legalties. Such simplicity is designed to reduce the cost of buying and selling, increase the effectiveness in business, reduce the misunderstanding, and increase the safety of users. electronic solutions such as the isolandis will be step forward in the direction this business is now developing. The bill on e-mailing has been prepared by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, now by the Ministry of Justice, and is expected in all the years that Congress and signing will be done more electronically. Such trends must be used to improve effectiveness and security and to improve the services of consumers. To illustrate the magnitude of these issues, we can consider judgments that have been taken because of real estate. However, we need to be warned that not all cases go through the judiciary system. We may expect much more cases to be done without the coming court. Justice as well as the matters that do not go to court can be expected to be greatly reduced by the changes presented here. In the processing of the proposal, local courts were searched for the passwords ◯Frequens, the real estate purchases, the remuneration rates, and the actual purchases of the online website of Domoria.is during the period of January 1, 2010 to 18 August 2017. Judgments and swerves were read to see if the entire legal case was about the defect in property. The following table shows the results of the search. In all of 360 cases, real estate and 102 cases are due to real estate defects. Because there were sentences that fell, only judgments that went all the way through the system. The cost for 22 cases since 2016 was laid down in three cases. On average, there was a total of 1.2 million, a minimum of 250 thousand, and a peak of 3.2 million. It should be noted that the cost of the case is judged only by another person, allowing the other person's exact expenses. In addition, the conviction of the court's expenses does not reflect the actual cost of justice. During the same period, 15 counts of the Supreme Court had to do with real estate defects. The passwords were searched for ◯Taxest and ◯goli. I suggest that the members of the assembly consider this proposal and appreciate what it has to say. I'm looking forward to the partnership.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u83	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's background on the proposal for action on electronic real estate transactions and real estate status reports. There is much interesting about first glances. I'm going to cross-examine the c- team, that whatever. A senator did well, but it says: "To contribute, without making it a direct law, to owners of real estate intended for an apartment, to keep a maintenance diary that has been kept electronically under the fixed number of property. That's very interesting. This is also discussed in a series of articles and illustrations to the meaning of oil journals. This is the catalyst, the probable obvious one, when thinking of sales, the real estate could be sold because it has been maintained properly and confirmed in such a book. So it's a very good idea. Because the proposal does not specifically include the proposed industrial and innovation minister, to work through a task force or group, there are all kinds of questions about surveillance and how accurate the information is. How can you tell? A senator who works on it?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u84	A respectable president. Thank you for a good question. This is not to be expected for supervision or anything like that. In fact, this would fall in information that would come out of a state check of sales if the owner did nothing more with the maintenance diary; neither would he have to register information in the oil diary any more than he would like. However, it is very easy to check the situation because it is supplied with goods, and it actually comes in as an information on the condition of the property. For such detailed information, it would fall under a-involved, on the responsibility of the person taking out an estate and providing a state report on it. It would be possible, then, to tell between two conditions what has changed if no other information is available.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u85	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I'm not sure that I'm ready to understand the answer or to buy it just in the first place because I think the idea and the suggestion and many of them sound good to the first reading. I'm saying that, of course, the proposal will be followed by a discussion on a committee, and you need to learn more about it. I suppose, though, that this is the right thing to do. A senator that these teams are able to support each other as they are put forward, as it were. A senator pointed out the status report and the maintenance diary. There must be some kind of harmony between them. I'm still a little stuck in my first cheek about the c-party because I think he's pretty interesting and the idea of a good process. But there's no turning up into their resistance, that people may go -- I say possible - to record up maintenance that can't be tolerated. This may be possible in the context of a state report. But I will be interested in following this case. I think there's a lot of good in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u86	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator very much for this point. It is absolutely true that the state report actually witnesses for the maintenance of what the owner has recorded in the past. These are state reports that come at intervals and at all times in sales, so the buyer has always fully confirmed the current state of the property and guaranteed by the responsible insurance provider. All items that the owner has made for this, from the previous state-of-view, should be supportive of this evaluation. If they don't, it's something strange. Probably a seller himself if there's any discrepancies. A minister would then have to see to it that certain additional measures, e.g. Iceland.is, i.e. a maintenance diary, which is then well available to owners, in order to document and handle it as you would in an oil diary. It's not much more complicated than that. You don't necessarily need a team to do that, except maybe a programmer or something. It's all the mystery in the maintenance diary. It may well be possible to get interesting information from it sometime later, though I would be careful about it at the moment. But that's not the plan. It is simply intended to be a storage facility for the state reports and a potential value to the owner.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u87	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a judicial hearing on the guarantee of quality, efficiency and effectiveness of public investments. The performance of the proposal is also critical. paritaprevir And Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, and Brutish, the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, Guðjón daughter of Brjánsson, and Hanna the son of Katrín the son of Friðriksson, the son of Logi Einarsson, and the Þorgerður of Katrín Gins, the Gunnarsdóttir of Simon, the Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, and Ari Trausti the S. of Guðmundsson. The motion has now changed slightly since the previous council. I think I should be able to do the highest. The minister of education and culture at Lilja Alfreðsdóttir. Including, it was in the case when it was last delivered. I would like to point out that there is a wide agreement here at the General Assembly on the proposal, at least among transporters that come from government and government position equally. The conclusion, in itself, is not complicated, but the effects of its approval can become great if they succeed. This conclusion includes two components, and it reads, by permission of the president: ▪ The General concluded to hide financial and economic secretarys to implement policy development with the aim of ensuring the quality, efficiency and effectiveness of public investments from the stage of development and the planned life span. The second section of the conclusion is: To establish formal government cooperation, employment, and educational community on the construction of the three - year framework for building knowledge and skills, and to further research on the quality, efficiency, and effectiveness of public investments, the secretary of a five - year Governing Body is responsible for the development of a team of five members. And finally: No later than March 1, 2018, here is the proposal, and I now assume that there is an unrealistic date. That may not be of primary importance. Shortly before the New Year's Eve, a report was presented that to achieve investments in our country's infrastructure would require up to 372 billion dollars. There are no pennies, and it's as good a job to do. With new schemes, you might save up to 26 billion dollars on this task if your next success I expect this proposal could lead to. It is an old story, and new that it takes time, money, and vision and organization to be successful in the field like this. It must be carried out in such a way that all the projects being carried out, whether for use, advantage, quality, price, work time, or priorities. They have wanted to burn, in Iceland and in other countries, that projects, major government investment projects, fail to meet the demands they have been made, and do not meet the needs they were facing. It is enough to mention that costs often break out, that construction time becomes much longer, and that often they do not provide the benefits they are facing. Of course, there are explanations for this many and many of them that work together. These include factors such as political preparatory procedures, analyses of needs, procedures used in organization, criteria, and conditions needed to meet for a project, and these factors are often inadequate. In some cases, there are delicate management and supervision to teach in the implementation of projects. It is often obvious that there is a lack of ability and knowledge, clear rules are not available, and, above all, there are often excessive optimisms about the progress of projects. It's got something to blame for in politics, too. Excessive optimism is evident when a person sets out to think that a project can be started quickly and safely and that it meets the needs of the target. All of this is done in a good meaning, but often it goes wrong. Of course, this is generally true of investment projects but is more serious when handling public funds. So far from where the problems I've been tracking are concerned with Iceland. These problems are international, so to speak. I also want to state that far from there, the Icelandic government and public investment projects in this country do not do much good and there are no rules and regulations. Not at all. But there is always a better way to do so, and there is much more to it if a good one succeeds. I think this is especially true of the preparatory procedures of projects, i.e. making decisions about what to do, what to do, and what steps to take. This illustrates the experience of other nations. I'd like to mention that the law code we have in Iceland is based on law No. 84/2001, of the order of public projects. The law is divided into several chapters dealing with initial research, planning, practical implementation, and return assessment. It is since 2001, as noted in their number, but no physical modification has been made in the 17 years since it became valid. Among the things that the current laws do not achieve, there are many investments other than projects, such as major property purchases, large housing, helicopters, and ships. Many countries have taken hold of these matters, and significant results have been seen. I'll mention Norway in particular, since I know it the best. These rules have been set. There I can refer to a regular work published by the Norwegian Department of Economics by the permission of the President, Ordning for the Soviets around av strelige investeringering. And then, the co-work project Concept, run by the Norways V. N. N.I.L. Universitet. It has been about 16 years since the Norwegians started their work on reforming themselves in this field. This study suggests that of the 40 major investment projects that have been involved in Norway using this methodology about 80% of projects, the external framework of cost-time and cost measures have been met. Furthermore, these projects have been given at an average of approximately 7% below the expected cost. From there, I have this figure, 26 billion, which I mentioned at the outset if the same result could be achieved here. Norwegians appreciate that the new arrangement has brought complete reversal in that land. No longer is a principle that involves action. The report that I made to talk about earlier, published by the Society of Advisor Engineers and Industrial Association on Investment Needs, was applied to Norway, a methodology used by the Norwegians when they evaluate the future need for investment in infrastructure and investments. That's why I don't think it would be out of the question that we also looked at a Norwegian carpenter on the subject of this synopsis proposal. It is also possible that education and research in the field of project management and to-dos management have grown largely on a international scale. Here, though a relatively short history is available at the University of Reykjavík, i.e. to MPM degrees, and at the University of Iceland to MS degrees. It is very important that we contribute to this, and it is the goal of the proposal to promote research and provide experience and knowledge in this field for the benefit of society all. It is of utmost importance when discussing the subject of this council resolution that it is quite clear, that although it would be agreed and proposed and established, a three - year strategy will be established, this will be a long run. This will not be 100% effective, since there is a need for a change in attitude, and this is a learning process. As always, you can't just pick up everything and buy Norway's handbooks and think that that's a solution. One of the things I think is the most important thing in all this context, and it has Norwegians, e.g. it is important to attach a high priority to the preparation of investments and investment projects. Norwegians have set up a system they call "the catacombs" That is, when deciding what to do, you begin by saying: "Here's a subject, here's a problem, we need to connect these with this building or to build a hospital or something else to do, and then you start to wonder what potential options are in the situation in a very careful way. Then this model is taken for implementation and funding level. What they do, especially on larger projects, is that this quality insurance is put into place, and it consists primarily of non-employers to evaluate ideas and projects in certain fields. They are like porters, as it were. They evaluate the ideas, the work, the organization, etc. It is always a gate, so to speak, that the government at any given time must make a decision. These are proposed and evaluated, and can be stopped or adjusted in the pre-planned phase of specific procedures. This has given us a great deal. If we can improve our culture in this area and improve our culture, there is much to do. The Conspiracy proposal includes hiding economic and financial ministers to make proposals for necessary legal adjustments and can be seen in other countries, but the other part is to set up this field for research and media purposes. We can help ourselves to learn and to improve in this regard. I think it's a reform project that the Icelandic community would do very well to go through. But I still want to reiterate what I said earlier that by making this proposal, I am not bringing reproach on what has been done well so far. Many things have been very good. But it is here as it is elsewhere that in some places you can do better. I also think this is important when we are choosing ways and ways to achieve goals. I don't think we're quite good enough to think about some possibilities. We tend to say, "Here's a problem, and there's only this solution. We may not go deep enough in identifying which ways could be effective at this goal. There can often be many of them. But to not add more to my speech, seeing that I am about to be finished with my speaking class, I suggest that this council order be referred to why. The Economic and Business Committee for further treatment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u88	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Valdimarsson Valdrimsson's story. I think the key line in a speech is what you're talking about. A senator and the positive things I see right after my first glance were just that this is a big improvement project, and it fits in the frames that we in the great context can face as a law on public finances. Then I immediately think about the suggestion, which says it is about the insurance policy, the practicality and effectiveness of public investments. Official financial laws set out both baseline and financial standards that are well understood by terms. That's the definition of the term I'm only staying with. It's a big, big concept. When we go to big public investments and investment projects, I agree with each word. We're supposed to make sure of that, huh? A senator mentioned a gate, but a process that ensures that we make it best, any terms we use in that subject. But the proposal is made to hide financial and economic ministers to implement policy development as well as what I like about appointing a team, a team of professionals, because the terms of a report are not very detailed. Now we're going to use it. Parliaments of various concepts that are very big: National economic practicality comes to mind, we use it much, and we may not know what that means. The question, then, is likely to be left to the group of people to identify terms that are appropriate for a report. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u89	President. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson for the answer. That's a good point. I think I'm gonna answer it in a way that when we start some project, whatever we're going to do, we'll understand in some way what we're going to do and what the requirement is. It's not systemic, but in this context it's good for the objective. This points to a process that ensures the achievement of goals. At the same time, this means that what is done is as good, practical, and efficient as possible in relation to what is decided. I made Norway a minor subject in this context. It is proper to say that the suggestion in itself does not mean that we adopt the Norwegian system. I want us to look beyond it and take a closer look. For example, these points are very specific to Norwegian regulations, about what humans are referring to in this context. I agree with what. A senator that this is the subject of the Lawgiver or the Ministry of finance to consider that and then this matter of consultation, where all these things are discussed. There people can have more specific rules or ideas about exactly what these terms mean. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u90	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Very good answer. This is now the option of putting in such large reforms that it truly is during a Senate resolution and putting the case forward and assigning it to the executive to continue. I can't help but encourage them. The Economic and Business Committee as it deals with this concept and term use, as there is a situation at hand. The budget of fiscal interest accounts. We are now going to develop roads and major investment projects. That's a good thing to do. I think there's a need for such improvement. It's fine, then, that there's a pact proposal to get support from the council, at least it's no worse, if that's the case. This is very interesting. Hv. A senator mentioned further terms, so I'll stick to terms, because we can talk about the traditional interest of money and then said why. A senator term that is useful. There may be many social reasons why we go into investments. I suppose this is what the Committee's about. But I don't have a special question in second answer. I just want to say the same thing. A senator says this is a big reform. [[The president calls.]] I'm just saying it's necessary for us to go through this process and at the same time look to the Norwegians in this. They have done well in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u91	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's word. I'm so glad he agrees. Just the right to keep me with our cousins the Norwegian, although it wasn't exactly a question from now on. A senator where they mountains e.g. on quality insurance or the idea to work on, what demands it should meet, specifically mentioned the need to map the stakeholders, to consider the impact of planned projects in relation to community needs, and to meet goals set by society or governments, and to what effect it will have and how practical this is, etc. These things are all inside. It's not just, it's 1 billion plus/minus 5%, and then we do it, but, "Why are we doing it? Is this necessary? What purpose does this serve? Is there any other way to go? And so on. It is such a tool for knowing exactly what they are doing and for being reasonably confident that they are choosing the most reasonable and best way in relation to the needs or purpose of the project and what problems it is to solve or to improve.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u92	A respectable president. I'm one of the partners of this case, and I'm on the side of it. What surprises me with the proposal and the reviews I've received on a budget recently from a financial council, which speaks of the need to set the cost and profit analysis of the government's priorities, this is like I understand the motivation to go into that sort of analysis. At any rate, I believe that the formal support of the Parliament after two comments on financial and financial policies, it would be very strong if the council adopted and cooperated with the Commission, making this a more dramatic case, but perhaps if it were to be carried out, it would be a very strong thing to follow the financial advice of the Council. If we're going to join the council in this, so we can get a report on the progress of the Senate arrangement, this is a much stronger way for all concerned in this matter. It was just the comment I was about to come to.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u93	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For the comment, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. I'll agree with this. I think the thought that is trying to form in this council-sense proposal is very good, and it can benefit us from many places. Of course, the synoptic proposal as it appears at first glance may be more concerned with our individual assignments, but this does not mean that it is a very useful tool or ideologies can be of no greater benefit to others. I'll just agree with the senator. I think it would be very good if the council could come to an agreement to resolve the proposal and after events with changes, as would be the case after treatment. The economic and business committees, so we begin to move more systematically into the direction behind them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u94	President. I recommend a synonym to the signing of optional accounting with an international agreement on economic, social, and cultural rights. The General concluded to hide the government for Iceland to sign and validate optional records with an international agreement on economic, social, and cultural rights approved at the UN General Assembly on December 10, 2008. This contract, an international agreement on economic, social, and cultural rights, ASEFMR, was adopted on December 16, 1966, at the UN General Assembly and signed for Iceland on December 30, 1968, and validated on August 22, 1979. The opening words of the agreement state that the states that are party to the agreement have in mind to acknowledge man's inborn dignity and equal rights for all people are the basis for freedom, justice, and peace in the world. In introduction, his member states acknowledge that the concept of human freedom, fearlessness, and lack of suffering will not come true only because creation will be conditions for everyone to enjoy economic, social, and cultural rights, both civil and political rights. By validation of the Treaty in Iceland, certain economic, social, and cultural rights were granted protection which they had not previously enjoyed. So a major step in the history of national rights protection was made up of the contract. During the General Assembly of the United Nations on December 10, 2008, there was adopted an optional publication on this contract, ASEFMR, which included the establishment of a judicial committee acting under ASEFMR and having a ruling authority against treaties against the terms of the agreement. Work on this publication has been going on since the 1990's, but following its approval at the UN General Assembly began signing on September 24, 2009. Since then, 48 countries have joined the deal. Since 2013 the first decisions have been made. In 1979 the United Nations'two international treaties were validated by the United Nations. It involved an international agreement on civil and political rights and on the other hand on economic, social, and cultural rights. Along with the validation of the international agreement for civil and political rights, an optional accounting was made with the judicial committee of the United Nations Human Rights Committee. However, the Committee operates only under the international contract on civil and political rights, thus accepting only solutions involving the first generation of human rights. By validation of the optional accounting of ASEFMR, a comparable charge for violations against that contract and remember economic, social, and cultural rights would thus receive additional protection comparable to that of civil and political rights as early as 1979. Last year a total of the UN Human Rights Council was conducted on the status of human rights in Iceland. The report explains how the Icelandic government has followed the recommendations of the previous UN assessment and what measures have been taken to improve the state of human rights in Iceland. The report noted that Iceland has validated all optional books with the UN Convention on Human Rights, except books with ASEFMR, a contract against torture and other cruel, inhuman or demeaning treatment or punishment called OPCAT, and a third book against the paediatric contract. The Icelandic government was encouraged to validate optional accounting with ASEFMR. A government report on the UN issue on the status of human rights published on August 1, 2016 did not take a special position to determine whether the signing and validation of the book would be granted. Clearly, in recent years and decades the value of economic, social, and cultural rights has increased considerably. Signing and validation of optional books with ASEFMR could help to increase the protection of these rights. Would thus bring similar charges for the rights protected in an international civil and political agreement. It has been a long time since Iceland became part of this contract and confirmed the importance of the rights it protects, both by law and by constitution, and also by courts. By signing and validating optional records on ASEFMR, a panel of members of the contract will be able to receive business from people in Iceland. Taking this step will increase the protection of these important rights, and it will be suggested that the Allied Council assigns the government to sign for Iceland and validate the optional book on an international agreement on economic, social, and cultural rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u95	President. I hereby recommend for the synonym a proposal for the use and culture of medicine modes. With this interpretation, a minister is assigned to create a bill that will remedy the present legal environment by allowing the use and culture of medical modes. During the preparation of the bill, it is important that all factors that make a big difference in the course of change should be protected. The experience of neighboring nations with the rules of using drugs, or what is called in foreign - language marijuana, by permission of a president, is rich and so important that a minister uses the experience of the successful nations. It is necessary to ensure that with the prime minister that the culture and distribution will be safe and that those who have it, as well as the patients, will not be punished. A drug mode is the name for cannabis or herbal preparations used for medical purposes. The long-term use of the plant has many different modes of use. Over the past few years and decades, a number of studies have been carried out on the medical effects of drugs and on the benefits to patients of its use. These studies have shown that drug disturbances have real use value, including to treat cancer, nerve disorders, and other serious conditions. In the United States, most of the government laws have remained unchanged over the past few decades, apart from occasional rise in the penalty frame. Since legislation on the world around the world is now evident to be under the ban on the principle of drug law, what steps should be taken in this land and what improvements are needed. In this context, recent scientific studies and the experience of neighboring countries could be considered from a sentence on such materials for both drug and systemic use. Among the countries now authorized to use drugs are Austria, Belgium, Canada, Greece, Czech Republic, Chile, Uruguay, Colombia, Finland, Germany, Israel, Italy, the Netherlands, and Spain, as well as parts of Australia and the United States. More countries will be adding because this appears to be a world policy. In Iceland the use of the plant is illegal. This classification of the material cannot be considered correct when it has been accepted that the potential value of the medicinal product is far greater than if it was classified as drug or drug abuse. Then the current category prevents candidates from being able to use the plant for research. The current legal environment prevents patients who could benefit from the treatment characteristics of the medicinal product from being able to access the product in a legitimate and safe way. In some cases it might even be said that the position of the drug mode as an illegal substance violates the rights of patients to obtain the best possible treatment and health care available. In view of the number of studies that have shown the use of medication modes for treatment reasons, there is good reason to set the patient rules for use. In February 2010, researchers from the University of California cannabis study center presented the results of their research on the health benefits of the plant. The study was conducted using the U.S. FDA standards, but its findings indicated that drug abuse is the preferred treatment for patients with neuropathy and other serious medical conditions. Several central nervous system studies measured the effects of the plant on neuropathic pain, cancer pain, diabetes, HIV/AIDS, spinal cord injury, and many other terrestrial diseases. These studies all suggest that the plant will reduce pain, as well or better than the medicines used today. Other studies conducted by independent doctors and scientists have also examined the effects of the plant on different diseases and its medical functions. These include the study Shaheen E. Lakhan and Marie Rowland, published in the December 2009 issue of BMC neurology. The study demonstrated that the use of the plant in MS patients reduced the negative effects of the disease. Similar studies have shown the use of the herbal plant to relieve migraine symptoms, a study published in the American magazine Headache: The Journal of Head and Face Pain, in May 2015. When it comes to scientific research on the use of the plant, periodicity testing is one of the most important factors, i.e. studies investigating a large number of other studies and their results are analysed to provide a complete picture of the available scientific data. An article on such a study of Laura M. Borgelt, Kari L. Franson, Abraham M. Nussbaum and George S. Wang, appeared in 2013 in the Pharmacot therapy journal under the title, by permission of Presidents, The Pharmacological and Clinical Effects of Medical Cannabis wrote: The results of this study were that the plant had indistinguishable medical value but that in a legal setting where the use of the plant is prohibited and punished, it would be difficult to monitor and measure the impact of its use. President. This arrangement suggests that a minister be assigned to prepare and present a bill as a home for pharmaceutical use and culture. This is the first step toward the prescription of medicinal product modes. Such changes need to be well considered, and many adjustments are needed. Therefore, a minister is authorized to write the bill to be submitted. Many nations have already taken the steps discussed. It is necessary for the Icelandic government to consider and to consider the progress it has made in this case. What is now taking place in the Western world cannot be considered to be in line with progress that in 2018, patients who prefer this treatment are still being punished. It is necessary that the Minister's bill should identify a 6th paragraph change. track No. 65/1974, for dependence and drugs. Then a minister will have to put a Regulation on the basis of the law which establishes a command on how to use and practice. The setting of such rules alone is not so complicated that it takes a long time for preparation, but it is true that a minister of health and his ministry prepares the bill. This body of interpretation proposal is designed primarily to meet members of the community that call for this option. It is clear that people already use this medicine for medicine. Sick people in the community use this drug illegally. We are not benefiting from making people sick to criminals in the community when they are so obvious that in those countries, such as the U.S.A. Israel, since this has been permitted for many years, and Israel is very early in the medical study of cannabis, has been found to help people. Vinabis, a drug mood is much less harmless than other drugs we use and the risk of abuse is low compared to the medical drugs we use today, such as opioids that are dangerous and people die from abuse. It should be taken into account with what is happening in the countries around us. In fact, it must also be considered in the light of criminal abuse, a policy that has been adopted by many countries around us, where we no longer punish consumers or users of drugs and instead take into account their health and how we can help them recover from these addictions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u96	Mr. President. Pirate's interpretation proposal raises some questions. All of us want patients well. The fact is that some of them can use cannabis for medical purposes, there is no debate. The rationalization proposal is about allowing both the use and the production of greenhouse gases for medical purposes. The question, really, is, What is the real need? There is no explanation of any other potential need in the synonym, but there are certain diseases that this has benefited us. It consists mainly of research on the practical use of the report and a series of 15 in the United States that allow use. I emphasize the word of use. There are many kingdoms, and you ask yourself, " Is the use there based on a drug disaster being produced there too? ' Then let's turn around here to the small kingdom and the small one. It would be very interesting to get clear whether it was in a special study or in a transporter, what real need is for medication mode in Iceland, and why it is linked to culture as well. The question is, Can the import of this material not work? If we allow it to happen on a different level, it may be the sole. My guess is that patients are primarily dependent on the active substance, which is often referred to as a THC, and they know for certain that it is a dangerous substance, very dangerous in long term use. Research has also shown this to be beneficial to patients and, therefore, probably, to consider whether the material should not be allowed to be used here. If use is permitted, as I told you earlier, medication modes could be introduced in sufficient quality, whether cannabis oil, a smoking mechanism, or anything else, for therapeutic purposes. I checked the tissue and found that there are capsules that have been isolated from the primary active substances of cannabis, a medicine called drunabinol used for example. correspondent in the United States, Canada, Germany, New Zealand. When considering the overall possibility of bringing medical quality to a sufficient degree, it may be asked whether there is a simple solution in this matter. Is there any objection to not releasing the product's license, but to support the import and use?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u97	President. Thank you. A senator before the talk, and he appreciates the questions as well. And the discussion. Hv. A senator asks: "What is the need? " Maybe I'd like to mention that, for example. In Israel, medicine maladies are used for those suffering from cancer, chronic neuropathic pain, chronic kidney disease, multiple sclerosis, post-traumatic stress disorder, HIV/AIDS, colitis, Parkinson's disease, tourette. As a result, I have studied cannabis, as I mentioned in my background. For my culture, I thought a lot about it when I was writing this synonym, i.e. Importing the verse to grow it here. My thought was that those who use this drug as a means to grow at home themselves. That was my idea behind this. This is done in many lands around us. They may be allowed to grow up to five plants. In another country, there's only one plant permissible. This depends on the laws they have around them. Then people need to be given special permission to grow. There are others who do not permit any personal use at all but allow it to become an enterprise. It makes no difference whether the government will handle this or the privates who grow it. The interpretation proposal leaves all of this completely open for the health minister to decide what best to do with it. With regard to THC, a very dangerous substance, it is worth mention that now, while the plant is illegal, it is best to cultivate the THC levels in the plant. This depends on the kind of person you have. People are often being given plants with excessive levels of THC, which are extremely dangerous. [[The president calls.]] But while we're watching - my time's over. I'll get to that in a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u98	A respectable president. I didn't take a stand on the council arrangement to make it clear. But I had read this about the field of use in Israel, or where it was now. Of course, we will have many patients if we begin to examine these areas of use, but this, of course, has to do with man's will to use it. It does not necessarily mean that this is a large group. Other, about home culture medicine. I don't know about any other drugs that are grown at home. I think this drug, like other medicines, should be under a drug control, whether it's sales or culture or production. I can't agree that there's someone special... plus that people can grow this in their windows. The main issue is this: There is a need to be provided and to determine whether it is less appropriate to use products where this active substance has been added to some type of capsule or oil or other such as this one and put it next. Because it's a big step to allow cannabis culture in Iceland, whether it's for a particular bridge or not. So I think it's better to be careful and make sure it's available in a different way than from the actual patient culture.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u99	President. Yeah, I totally agree with what. A senator says he needs to be careful. I understand that people have different opinions about how they can cultivate their own drugs at home. It's just something that's under discussion, and there's a possibility there's some place the health minister will drag the line on. But then it's just a question of who should grow this, whether to import it or to cultivate it over our heads. It's all under discussion. For the THC levels in cannabis, there is something that can be controlled by rules, how much THC levels are in the cannabis plant. It's all about whether we should just be using a CBD drug that's not in the mood but has shown very good results for people with neurological disorders, just using the CBD oil and just growing the HC from. So all these items are being discussed. The purpose of this synopsis is just to get this discussion going. Whether people use it or not, it's also a matter of how doctors view it. When we legalize, which way? Will the doctors want to prescribe this? Will we see the value of this or not? If not, fine. At any rate, it is an alternative for people who struggle with very serious illnesses that they have the option of using drugs instead of other stronger and more difficult drugs. If this helps, I'm sure we allow people to have this choice. Why not? So, what do we have to endure?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u100	Mr. President. We'll discuss a synopsis proposal for the use and culture of drug modes submitted by the river. paritaprevir Halldóra, Mogensen and some more of them. Marty's members. Like what? paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson came into his speech earlier is not directly discussed with the need for the proposal or the report, why this needs to be done. The answers and reasons are more in some way that these are people's rights and that we have nothing to be boring about people who want to use something other than what is available today. With this discussion, there's a little bit of pressure, at least I look at it. so on, the discussion that the legal use of cannabis, make it a little more legal, make it a little more vegetables, make it a little green, it's so natural. All of this is what you have, my dear. Councilmen, read the Internet, just as I heard and saw in the speech of many people who have spoken before the use of cannabis. This conversation is actually dangerous because the message we send into society is that there is a harmless little plant that people should be able to cultivate at home and enjoy its fruits, that it is an excellent choice for effective treatment of many diseases. But it's just wrong. Senators. The knowledge base behind the use of cannabis for medical purposes is not particularly good and in the vast majority of disease categories. One senator listed earlier that the plant can be used, and the material is for use in other methods that do not involve the social risks of taking in another plant, another substance, which has always been on a shallow drug and substance, and originally used as one. You can't turn it over and say, "Well, no, then we're just gonna let it go because it's so good. It's not like that, and I'm pointing out who. The delegates have an excellent fistula, which is so pleasant to be found in the fine news newspaper today, February 1, on page 48, by Lára G. Sigurðardóttir, doctor, and public health doctor. It is easy to understand, and it has nothing to do with the dangers and problems that we can create by getting it out of control in this regard. I'm gonna let myself grab hold of this to Lára's desk, and that's where it comes from. until, with permission of the highest. President: ▪ Long-term consumption may reduce the ability of cannabis to detect young people. As the brain is developing, it constantly develops new synapses, and according to animal studies, cannabis interferes with the formation of new synapses. The results can be difficult to concentrate and to support memories. The level of cognitive loss has been shown not to come back when cannabis intake has been discontinued. Come on, Lára says: ▪ Cannabis can cause respiratory problems such as tobacco smoking, as well as fast heart beat, which may increase the risk of heart attack. It is also well - known how can can can can cause anxiety and anxiety symptoms that are often very difficult to deal with in conditions that suffer. A senator listed. It is simply wrong to plan on making such a decision, without any urgent need, to encourage some of the patients'problems in order to solve others. I don't know exactly how many cannabis users there are in this country, but the research that has been done, for the sake of basic schools and the early high school classes, shows that the consumption there is one percentage in percentages, somewhere between 2353% to less than 10%, i.e. Those who have ever tried the material. Nevertheless, 40% of these age groups search at the treatment station Vog because of addiction problems, just because of cannabis. Hv. Congress officials will likely realize that these same age groups are much more effective in drinking alcoholic beverages, which are probably 70 and80% in some of the age groups who drink alcohol. Then you will see how much shorter the course is in problems with these substances than to develop with alcohol, which all of us agree that is a relatively dangerous drug. We're probably not ready to ban alcohol, but I think, yeah. Senators, we're supposed to be very careful with legalizing new drugs. I completely agree with the thought that these substances are not to be abused by members of the Pirata council. We're not supposed to criminalize it, but there's no need to create a new channel for another problem with drugs in Iceland, and I'm paying a great deal of caution on this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u101	President. It's so hard for me to understand why it is such an overwhelming opposition when we consider a drug that helps people. Hv. A senator speaks of lack of medical research, but studies show that cannabis has helped people with extraordinary pain. So I don't quite understand what tests are involved. A senator has been studying. But is it our senators, looking at research and making decisions as to whether a drug disaster is over their heads or not? Is it not only those who are sick to decide whether they want to have access to this medicine or not and to decide whether or not to prescribe it for people? There are many dangerous drugs that we use in writing and giving out to people who go to the black market and who abuse people in various ways. But we must be able to find the solution. Regarding the dangerous nature of cannabis, it is quite appropriate to follow this medicinal product, but these risks are present when the product is illegal and the materials are not monitored. This is one of the things we can deal with if there is a legal device around it. We can make sure that there is no THC level in the cannabis plant, that people with underlying psychiatric disorders do not become ill by smoking it, except when they are using it, they use cannabis oil, they don't smoke cannabis. There are different ways in which people use this medicine, but a health minister would receive all the information in their hands in order to find out how best to implement these legislation in Iceland and Icelandic and prevent the drug from being abused.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u102	A respectable president. The senator mentioned that the medicine may help to relieve pain. That may well be so. There are some studies that show that it helps to relieve pain. There are also thousands, likely millions of studies, showing that other medicines are effective in treating pain. When cannabis is assessed to be ot-to-head, as it is called in English, i.e. directly against other medicines for pain, it is not particularly effective. The adverse reaction rate of this is far too high to be at an acceptable risk of using this medicine primarily for the treatment of disease. There is no evidence in itself that there is a lot of other dangerous drugs in the market. It is clear and clear that it justifies adding another dangerous drug to the market. I can't see it makes any sense. To argue that by legalizing the product, it becomes somewhat less dangerous - tetrahydroceninol is a dangerous substance. It is just as dangerous legal or illegal. [[Foreground on: No.]] If we are talking about mental illness such as psychosis or anxiety or such problems, it is just as bad to suffer from psychosis or anxiety from a legal or illegal tetrahydroceninolone. It doesn't change anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u103	President. It tells itself that when drug monitoring is tightened, it is not as dangerous. It has only proved to them in lands that offer services that people can bring all kinds of drugs to them and have the content checked so that they can know what they are doing. People who buy cannabis on a black market here have no idea what they get. But aside from that, because we're talking about medicines that help people, I'd like to ask them why. Senator: Why are we not ready to go in the same direction as Australia, Belgium, Canada, Greece, Czech Republic, Chile, Uruguay, Finland, Germany, Israel, Italy, the Netherlands, and Spain? Why is it impossible for us to think about this drug the way it is done in other parts of the world? People use such drugs as opioids, which are highly dangerous and dependent on them. It is very difficult to stop and step down after taking opioids for a long time. Then these drugs go to the black market and have a devastating effect on the people who will be dependent on them. Is it not logical when medicines such as cannabis, which may be available instead of this drug, can help us reduce the risk of taking these medicines for pain? People who suffer from cancer who are undergoing very difficult chemotherapy have no appetite, take cannabis oil, and increase their appetite and quality of life. That's a fact. People use it for nerve pain, so it helps tremendously. People in other parts of the world use cannabis with remarkable success. But we're gonna forbid people. Why? Because it's so dangerous, and we're afraid a young person will start smoking it. We must be able to monitor it and find the solution to the problem. This material is already in the black markets, so it's not like we're going to increase it, it's not like the prohibition policy works.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u104	President. Hv. A senator speaks in one of the ways that it becomes less dangerous and easier to monitor the medicine if it is legal than if it is illegal, but in the other, she says that people should be allowed to grow in their home. There may be one way. It's natural just absurd. How in the world are we going to meet that standard of treatment? How in the world are we going to observe who uses the products of such plants? How will we do so? Will we have some oversight in people's homes by what they grow from day to day? [[Up front.]] That's not the point. There's no way for them to live up to their standards. The senator asks, " Is it not reasonable that we allow this way because some particular group of countries allowed it to go to some extent? ' Oh, no, you're not. There's a lot in pharmaceutical legislation in other countries and a lot about how other countries run their pharmaceutical markets that we never expected to do in Iceland. Or I hope we'll never do anything in Iceland. Some countries allow advertisements to be very free. Some countries allow antibiotics to be sold for free sale, etc. We're not going there. To argue that it's logical because someone else allowed it to happen - let's just figure it out, okay? Councilmen, that some of the countries where cannabis has been legalized or allowed for any purpose, have far greater problems with the use and abuse of these drugs than we have. I guess we don't want to go there.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u105	A respectable president. I volunteer to reason on the scientific issues of this matter more on the subject. A senator in a different field than a punk. I don't think that we have time for that, nor in fact, that there's a big reason for it from the speech of both. A senator, whose primary concern is the vandalism of cannabis. After all, cannabis has its own dangers. I don't know about anyone who's making a difference. There is also a risk of taking morphine and concerta. There is a risk of taking all kinds of medicines. This proposal, it's not even a bill, it's not about providing home culture, general consumption, or anything like it. The suggestion is to create a set of laws for this plant to be used for medical purposes, most likely by physicians. Like what? I hope a senator knows that, I suppose, it's controversial, like many other subjects in science. This is not completely cleared up. Hv. paritaprevir However, Halldóra Mogensen listed a number of countries in which a drug mode has been used in some quantity. Cannabis, certainly a drug that can have harmful effects, does not mean that they are useless for medical purposes. Everyone must be able to see clearly. I'd like to be clear that this is not the case with allowing general consumption, household culture, or anything like that. If I understand why. A senator rightly worries that people will use more cannabis if this proposal is approved, so I'd like to ask him, " How would that happen? ' Cannabis are probably one of the simplest substances in the world in production. It's weed, you put it in a flower pot, and you give it water and light, and you get cannabis. It's not much more complicated than that. Granted, if the goal was to do so, many will offer further counsel. I don't see that this proposal is going to be accepted... to add an offer to the cannabis. [[The president calls.]] It is the demand side that we have had to pursue in the fight against the negative effects of drugs. [[The president calls.]] I have to get the rest of my points to the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u106	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson asked me one small question at the end of his opponent, how can it be said that allowing this to increase its consumption? It may just be so simple that hundreds of studies, designed by the World Health Organization, are the basis for improving the availability of drugs in all places where this experiment, we will say, has increased the consumption. This suggestion involves improving the availability of the material. That is what we need to discuss. I guess cannabis isn't useless, I'm highlighting. It is probably not useless to treat pain or any other symptoms for at least a few nerve disorders. However, with these same symptoms and the same diseases, there are other medicinal products that are found in a much more accurate way than cannabis. That's why I think we should take a very careful approach to the earth in this matter. Basically, I think what we have to look at is what the scholars or health professionals in this area are dealing with the individuals who are having problems with the use of these drugs are telling us in these substances. None of them recommend freedom from the laws and regulations that are already in force. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u107	A respectable president. We are, in effect, talking about two matters, one of the medical properties of drugs and the potential for good or not and the other, drugs. Although it is quite natural to follow the suggestion, we must think that here it is the thought of being used as a drug. Let's be absolutely clear. I've had discussions with various experts who have a wide range of opinions about how things are supposed to be. Yet, with all due respect to them, when it comes to drugs, and I'm not going to go to medicine, the advice that is followed and that seems to have a rather contrary effect. For example, we had more and less pot transfers after a crash. Imagine if I had told you in 2005: We can only cut off all the pots in Iceland. What do you think would happen? Well, most would say: The consumption would be reduced, that would be less cannabis. What happened? The production of cannabis became domestic, something that did not change. Icelanders just started growing grass on their own. In Winnipeg, a gang of drug gangs was eliminated, and it became a murder wave. Following that course led to success. Of course, you want to eliminate the gangs. I'm not speaking against it, I'm just saying, the consequences of our actions are not so obvious and simple in the drug world. The fact remains that people want to use drugs, whether we like them or not. Another danger today is that we have managed so well that morphine - related materials are not shared with people that people are going to heroin, which is much more dangerous. Far from being medical, we have to face up to the fact that people are reaching out for these things. What I'm saying is that when it comes to cannabis, there is probably no substance that is simpler to grow. I can't believe that this suggestion will have any negative consequences. There's the focus. [[The president calls.]] When it comes to the demand side of cannabis, the focus comes forward with prophylaxis, with damage and sophistication, not by constantly trying to prevent bioavailability, even if it prevents us from using drugs that work for some patients.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u108	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir In the context of this suggestion, Helgi Hransson's Gunnarsson became known as a drug. Let's just say, "Okay, that's the way it is. It has been a fundamental idea in many parts of the world, in which people wonder whether a new drug should be taken into account whether it has anything to offer beyond what is already on the market, whether it is equally good, or if it adds to the effects it may already have. Now we know why. There is no doubt that there is a tiny window somewhere before the use of cannabis for a therapeutic purpose, since we have not found any other material. These medications are prescribed to them today. Hv. A senator may know that. These patients can access the medication by allowing it to happen. I don't see that we should start opening up any more of these medications. In very rare cases, canagliptin is indicated in excess of other medicinal products available in the same indications. The Senator also mentioned morphine-like medications and how badly we had been stopping their use.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u109	No, fine.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u110	What good could we have done with the use of morphin-like drugs? [[Up front.]] Yeah, I don't think it's right that we didn't do it very well. I think that the experience of stopping morphine-like medication will not improve anything if we allow one more substance. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u111	A respectable president. I don't have much time before I have to pick up a kid in high school, so I'm gonna go over history quickly. The bill is changing the law on the Marriage of the General Assembly, Article 4. The law falls away, very simple. Then the decrees for the state rights of the General Assembly for permission from the official work that he is doing for up to five years and a guarantee of a similar job at the government for five years afterwards, he gives up his job. The general body is not expected to be able to serve in a state or state - of - state position and receive a salary for that work. In our view, this is not necessarily a right but a privilege. Thus, there is no need to favor government officials above others, and it is suggested that the law be removed. When the law was given, the first sentence was taken from the earlier law from 1968, where it is said that it is normal for an General to receive permission from duty until his second election period, i.e. that he must let go of his job if he is elected to the Council for the second time. And it seems fair that if a senator so chooses to choose between public and Congress, he will have assurances for an parallel job in the government for a period of time, or five years, if he gives up the job he is appointed or hired to do. The appointment and recruitment of public jobs are very different now. This is less about longer recruitment or longer orders, and most are to five years of age. And the Supreme Court, for example, does not even qualify for the Generals. However, the second paragraph is from the current law, in harmony with the current terms of pay paid to the generals - it was by the earlier law; it was forgiven: then it was considered to cancel the regulations of this sentence, in which members of Congress have become involved in fighting other jobs for the government that had been abandoned. It's about to record it now, 23 years later or something like that. It has become even less rare. This matter cannot be more complicated than that. For example, I had a public job before I started to be a senator. I would like to reduce my privileges in this regard. We've got plenty of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u112	A respectable president. I wanted to have a place to say. A member of the Parliament, a member of the bill, Leví Gunnarsson's son. You see, I believe that we have nothing to do that in reality could rather limit who will volunteer to the Generals. I'm concerned that everyone volunteered for the Generals that I'm concerned that the bill of this kind would reduce it, whether temporary or long-term, whatever it was for the Generals. I am basically against the transporters of the bill when it comes to this sentence here, by permission of the President: ▪ In the opinion of the movers, the law makes it evident that it is better to become a member of the General Assembly after performing public service than coming from the general labour market. I feel that this is kind of a rational twist that I had to sort of get involved. But I would like to ask. Transporter: Wouldn't it be better to turn it around? Why not expand these rights rather than limit the rights of public employees in this case? Perhaps we should try to look for ways in which we would further expand them to the general market, not equal to, as the movers expect, but balance it. - Hv. A traveller can grovel to himself as he pleases and feels proper. - We've done this, like. with respect to obstetricity. We have extended it so that people can leave work and come back after their birthmarks. Does a messenger have no concern that this would even reduce who would be willing to make a seat at the General Assembly and thus not benefit the democracy? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u113	A respectable president. Reduce, no, the number of classes and forwards has increased tremendously, so I'm just not worried about it. The difference here is that those members of Congress who come from government can go to work for up to ten years, which is a huge mistake compared with what other employees have from the general sector. And trying to say to a general company in the city: 'No, you have to keep your position open for up to ten years. - No.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u114	A respectable president. I remember that there was a time when we could reason with him. A senator in whom he was not in some Morfish contest, shoving, and making little of the presentation of the person who is simply asking him honest questions. I'm really worried about that, what. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear, that this will diminish the identity of the candidate. I'm not out of my way. A senator's suggestion, like a dog. A senator would have heard if he had listened to my speech earlier, that the general employment market remained open for ten years. I'm simply saying, "Wouldn't it be rather advice if we wanted to make changes in our view that making it easier for people to leave their jobs, to sit down at the Council, and then return to their work, whether it is the exact same job or a similar job? " I don't have any magic solution for it, do I? paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, whether this is five years before and then five years for the work to be done in the same way, I'm ready to look at anything in it. I think, however, that if we looked the other way, we would be looking for people to be more involved in the coming, going to a council sometime, but maybe that would reduce their place at the General Assembly. I think this would only benefit the democracy if we looked at it this way and would give more people the opportunity to do so by being allowed to sit here at the High General Assembly. I remind you, as I came in earlier, that when we were discussing the expansion, e.g. I'm not saying that. A senator had such reasoning, but there were many who jerked and ran over it, felt it completely ridiculous, that's exactly what he's doing. We're evening, not downside like a whale. environ men of the bill suggest: [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u115	A respectable president. I mean nothing bad by the words, I'm a punctual man, and I get really pissed off if I'm too late to pick up my daughter from nursery school, so that's the only reason I'm a little short. [[Up front.]] I asked the president, please, to bring the case with the other two cases I moved here earlier today, it would have been very easy to fix that problem. I thought about it when I wrote the bill to expand my rights, but I saw no possible way to really oblige the general market to stay open for ten years and thus level the rights. So I can't give you any more answers. If there is no obvious solution, I have no intelligent suggestion in this matter. I don't really have anything more to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u116	A respectable president. I decided to leave my voice behind two lines of communication. senators who spoke before me. I'm with a importer on this case. I really care about doing what's right. I really care that the law is fair. That's why I'm with a importer on this matter. If there's any argument that makes me stop feeling this bill fair, I'll change my mind like I do rather regularly - I'll do it completely in cold blood and I won't be ashamed of it. But I have not heard any evidence that this should be the way it is. What we're talking about is 4. legal on the prenup of the Parliament's weddings and the expenses of the Senate. I looked up the bill that made it legal and looked up comments on Article 4. that bill. I simply find no adequate logic. It is simply claimed that it is in some way reasonable for public employees to have the right to take the job for five years after they sit down, to be the top priority for five years thereafter, some of which amount to about ten years. It simply claims that it is in some way fair, referring to things that I'm not arguing that this is so. I can agree with that with what. paritaprevir Kolbbi Óttarsson Proppér, who spoke earlier, answers us. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, that we would like as many as possible to volunteer to the Generals. However, I personally feel that there should be equal and, most importantly, equality. I don't understand why public employees should have this right beyond people in the general labour market. Furthermore, I can't see, more than what. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, how could this rule apply to the general market? As far as I can see it, it's only going for the public market because it's the public market that is largely funded by tax contributions and that's where institutions are at their disposal. Similarly, I do not realize why this charge should be there. That's why I'm all for her going away. If there is further evidence to support this arrangement in Article 4. These songs are in some way logical or reasonable, I'm all one ear, as one says in tragic language, but I just haven't heard that argument. I'd like to mention in the process that there is something else that could be completely fixed in this code. I'm not going to go into it, but this isn't the only part of this law I see. I've thought that through the past, the generals may have given themselves an odd kind of ambition, sometimes I've thought so. I'll mention, for example, when it was decided that the presidents of a government party, or the presidents of non-Cational classes, were given 50% stress, something we in Pirates have always rejected, because we don't have a chairman unless we have the form. Then, in fact, we have the Chairman of the FR-C, it's a different kind of Chairman. Normally, I feel that equality is important in the community, equal to law, and that people always have the right and the right to volunteer to the Generals. I wondered, perhaps more as a question in the kismos, as is said today: What if you were to volunteer to the Generals, would anyone think of applying first for a job, just a job, at the government, and then volunteer to the Generals so as to have some way out? It's different. It is known in Iceland, or I'm told, that it is rather difficult for the former senators to find work or can be difficult, especially if they are very prominent in the discussion. They do not have to be unpopular for that. Just being a prominent politician with views of the community can make it difficult for members of Congress to find work. I'm told it's the opposite in most other countries. That's where it's calculated and it's good to have it in your career. But not here. I don't know why it is. The only thing I suspect is that it's because people are afraid of having an employee whom a customer begins to give himself some preconceived opinions about, which may not be up to the point of supporting or having nothing to do with the work. I don't know exactly. In fact, I have examined the truth of this teaching in particular. I have to say, if we're going to start thinking about these matters from an equal basis, I think we should look the other way. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé mentioned earlier. I don't see how that's possible. Again - I'm all one ear in this tragic Icelandic but I just don't hear a reason why it's different from what is suggested in the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u117	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize the commitment of life insurance rights and the operation of pension funds. It's a matter of equality policy for pension funds. This is a case involving all of the Parliament's Conferences, as well as the cohesives: Hrafn Hjörn's Gunnarsson Gunns, Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir, Björn's Gunnarsson of Gunns, Vala Helgadóttir Pólgæða, Andrés Ingi son of Jónsson, Andri Guðjón of S., Brjánsson, Halldóra Mogensen, and Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörnótir. I call this to account that this is a matter of considerable support, of which there is a solidarity among the five members of Congress. The proposed change is largely bilingual. At 1st. 36 st. The law shall add a new number, as follows: A pension fund shall set up an equal policy that covers the fund's investments. 36 st. considers in general the investment policy of pension funds, which contains several factors to be considered by pension funds, including being guided by funds and setting moral standards for investments, to name just a few. It is suggested that 2 mg be applied. 41 st. The law adds up a new number, as follows: conduct the financial equality policy of the fund. 41 st. will report to the management board. This means that it, along with an overview of the fund activities of the year and other information, as well as the information on how the pensions have been conducted in the process of this equality policy. The impact of pension funds in Icelandic business life is considerable, as the most important funds are in the Icelandic financial market for some time. There are 25 of them, according to the SEC's report on the state of surveillance. Their possessions by the end of September last fall were 3,760 billion. ... according totheService Bank's economics. The Pension Funds hold a large proportion of bonds and registered shares, either directly or indirectly through a fund they have invested in. They have invested a lot in unregistered assets, and they also come from mortgages to real estate, as we know. According to the laws on the related insurance insurance rights referred to here, and the operation of pension funds, all employees and/or auto-employers are obliged to ensure their pension rights through a pension fund. The Pension Funds are thus assigned to promote public funds and therefore have a social role. This role is reflected, including. of the year 36. The law says that pension fund should guide society's interests and set moral standards in investments. This bill suggests that the community's role in pensions is played out in terms of equal status and equal social rights of men and women by staging that funds should set up an equal policy that reaches the individual's investments. Similarly, the annual report of the fund shows how the implementation of equality policy has been done, how investments of the funds fit in with such a course. Thus, in accordance with this, it is necessary to explain specifically the grounds for investing in enterprises with a sex accord that is largely high among the highest rulers, for example. In fact, such policies should be self-recognized and natural in view of the role of pension funds in the community, for many studies have shown that enterprises with a more balanced gender ratio in the management and executives in general are improving. Thus, this should depend on the social responsibility of the funds mentioned above. In view of the situation in Icelandic business, however, it is advisable to give special consideration to this obligation of pensions by law. Mr. President. Although much has been achieved in the fields of equality, certain areas of society seem to be a little bit on the boat. An example is the financial sector. The numbers are striking, more than 90% of those who control money in this country are men. Among them, the funds are set apart, not from that proportion, but in that they belong to all the common people. Everyone must pay in the pension fund of their wages, men and women alike. So, the Pension Funds have it, so I have a social role to play. They're managing our money. In their investments, they are extremely active in their business affairs. The bill suggests that the pension fund so fulfills responsibility when it comes to promoting equality in the community, for they thus carry out their social duties in the best way and the role they are assigned to play in the community. It is therefore suggested that this social obligation be legalized so that pension funds are made to set an equal policy that reaches their investments. As I told you earlier, research shows that companies with a wide range of management groups, including Due to the presence of gender substitutions, a better effect is observed. This should be a matter of concern, of debate, in view of the fact that the funds are meant to maximise the survival of their investments, that there is an equal view. This has simply not been the case. Hence, it is logical and vital that the next step be determined by this obligation. The law on equality required in Article 1. This bill, however, is not enough. They need to have a clear view of how it is being carried out. Therefore, it is also highlighted and suggested that the pension funds be legalized according to the annual report on how equality policy is conducted. That's how the funds, for example. need to explain why investing is in enterprises that do not meet equality criteria. I think it is important to learn that this is a matter of legally establishing the duties of the funds to support your choice and decisions, not to intervention in other matters. Thus, it can hardly be called a spectacular intervention in the funds business or limitation of their freedom. Rather, it is simply a normal requirement for the owners of the funds and those of interest to make choices, decisions, and measures to be reasoned. It is the political duty to watch for ways to change and improve the system of things for the benefit of the common people. We are not to leave the area of the community behind. We are not to feel that certain areas of society are caught in sexual misconduct. Mr. President. I hope this case has a quick beginning.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u118	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator and the opportunity to be one of the partners of this fine case. I'd like to wonder if we should view this as one step toward the fact that all the pensions are good for the community, that the great wealth that rests there, which is the sharing of most of us in the country, which has paid into the pension fund, is a means of welfare to the community. I can think of a exchange I had with the then secretary of finance and economics, Benedikt Jóhannesson, about moral goals in the investments of pension funds here last year. At that time, I felt a little uncomfortable becoming aware of the lack of official information on the content and nature of the pension fund. It was a little thin answers that came from the Ministry because the pension fund was private, which the Ministry couldn't reduce. That's why I find this proposal very improved in the bill we're discussing that the exchange of information on equality policies and investments is clearly defined. I wondered, " Should my investments meet moral standards? Is it also part of these annual reports, just as it would be if investments were to pass an equal policy? '
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u119	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator highly countered, as well as his favor with this bill he is with the importer. That's an interesting point. I can explain that when we were considering this, it was plain that we wanted laws on equality into the 36th chapter. ... abouttheinvestment policy of the pension fund. There we looked back at 5. Under that heading, a pension fund sets up moral standards. Then we began to think that it alone was not enough. We wanted this in our report, too, to be informed about how they acted and reasoned on it. I realize that some people don't like the wording there, talk about the tightness of business. I'm arguing about it all day long that the fulfilling of this law is not being forced into business, but it is simply a matter of sometimes reasoning about it. Since this is not being done differently, it must be possible for humans to back up the decisions they make when they handle as much of their money as they really do. That's why we wanted this in our report too. I think it's worth considering whether these moral standards discussed in investment policy can come back into the report, how humans have handled it. I imagine myself, without knowing it, to what. A senator may be looking at the way the Norwegians have treated their public funds, the standards set there, limitations, and so forth. I think it's all worth talking about. That's all I can say. I'd love to keep taking it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u120	A respectable president. For example, when people talk about the need for a pension fund, it may be a good idea to look at things in a larger context because today's financial investments must not be a burden to the lives of those who come here in the future and build this country. Building up a community of equality, building a green economy, building up a benign economy on the land is something that may not be as clear in the excel-script pensions as much as many other, but it will bring long-term benefits to those who, after 50, 60, 70 years, go to cash in which this community will partly be built. So I think there is good reason to determine what moral standards it is that pension funds should invest according to, the equal principle is one of them. Of these, the senator named the oil Fund Norwegian and the development of a large fund of similar proportions in the North countries. that they are moving toward benign investments, that is a discussion that we also need to have when and if we set up a national fund around the country for the profit of resources. From the first day on, we need to be careful that this is a key factor, equality, environmental protection, and benign investments.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u121	Mr. President. I agree with those words, and I'd also like to make a good decision that we, in turn, have been lucky to build up our pension system. It's at least One of our shores, I don't talk about the importance of this system as the nation grows old, which happens in the years to come. We will be a nation among the nations in this regard. I wholeheartedly agree that these moral, environmental, and other standards become more and more important to us. Our pensions must come in there strong, and we strong inside as owners of these funds, with influence in that direction. Hv. A senator here mentions a future fund that I look forward to hearing more of. I hope he has a similar focus, but I have high hopes that these matters will be accomplished, this bill, these legal adjustments. As a result, it may be the first step toward getting some experience and then getting to a certain point. But as for the original idea of this moral standard, I think there's a discussion that needs to be taken and there's nothing to wait for.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u122	A respectable president. I'm gonna start by saying thank you for this. I must admit that I had not read it until today, and I did not fully study it with regard to today's review, even though I have covered it in my own time. Now that I look at it a little better, I can't help but favor it even more. Like what? A senator apparently mentioned some members of the community a great deal of conflict with women. One part of the community is the financial sector. Another part of human society in which men are overwhelmed by more than women are in prisons. A lot of people might think I'm kidding, but I'm not. There are some of the human behaviors that somehow seem to be in such a way that men either seek it or somehow end up more. And one of them is violent crime and imprisonment; another is the financial sector. I think it's a little bit interesting. I've been wondering for a long time why that is so. Because I read about it only, mostly in the media, but also in the local conversations, I tend to lean more and more on the danger. I think there's something about men, if it's not just hormones, I don't know, I'm not a doctor, that makes men want more risk, and women in general, more responsibility. It is not long to relate that I was opposed to all sexuality and some legal means in order to try to correct equality in society. I suppose at that time I've called myself simply antelphominist. Then, as time went by, I got to know this group better, and in time, I became a feminist, calling myself a feminist today. Then somehow I have more difficult and harder with it, and I'm just calling myself a misogynist. I think, somehow, women should be in control of things like financial companies, and women should be in power. It's not necessarily feminist viewpoints, but it's not that I'm seeing so much of my sexy sexes, it's not necessarily good. It may be very important to show some courage and courage, but we would never say that we would need to increase the share of women in prisons or increase the share of women in speeding driving or some risky conduct that is a distraction to society. However, when it comes to the financial system, whether we like it better or worse and whether we want to compare it with speed or prison, we must want to increase the share of women, if that is so that men display undesirable behavior for any reason, whether it is training conditions or biological reasons, that is not everything in themselves. If we are going to achieve the goal that women are equally capable men in society, and I suggest that there's a reasonable goal, I think we have to use legislation and the chapters of sexuality. I think it's important to import them correctly, think them through, measure their results, try what's not working, and what doesn't work. What doesn't work, I think we should get rid of and try something else in return. As time passes, it will become more apparent, at least now for a good time, some decades, this strong appeal for women to be as right as men in the community. First for a while, naturally for a while ago, I'm not guessing how long it was, the idea was lost. Women were just something different than men, men were men and women were women and children, and they were pretty cut and cut in the old days, in that ignorant society. Then, at some point, the law was taken to legalize, so that the law did not define some offense just against women or that men would use some special privilege, something similar. Okay, we're probably a long way there, if not all the way to achieve equality, according to the law itself, so mostly by some exception. The other is that this cultural, profound differences displayed in a behavioral pattern toward certain categories of subjects are still present. I just find it very interesting. Then, too, as I often said in my day, and now I think, to minimize critical voices correctly, i.e. that women just need to be more active. That's what you said back in the day. It is this idea that to be successful in the financial or any of these things, women should behave in some way differently. They should only be more risky, they should be more bold and stronger and braver, and all of this to imitate the men who achieve this tremendous success in that sector. I've got two things to do. Another is that I don't think it in any way fair or automatically wise to expect equality to be achieved simply by a different sex. I just think it tells us there's no room for two sexes, let alone other people in the community. I just refuse that it is. There should be room for women and people of other sexes in this sector. It's just for me. Of course, we don't need to explain it, we just have to figure it out. Perhaps we need to consider an explanation for the solution. It can be. But the main thing in my opinion is to fix it. The second is also, as shown in the bill's report, the second - last item of the report. It says, by permission of the President: In view of the role of pension funds, such policies should be self-recognised and natural, and many research shows that companies with a balanced gender ratio in the management and the general management sector are more successful. That's interesting to me. In view of the fact that the top of the bill, in the second issue of this report, we see that in February 2010-03/2017, 80 men and only eight women were in the position of the highest executives of business banks and other types of companies mentioned. This tells me, I believe both claims, that who would choose to take the lead in these companies is not necessarily the ones who give priority to the economy for the best. And certainly not when it comes to social responsibility. I was impressed that when we were picking up some names and faces that I'm not going to do here and now, it's been a long time since, but you just saw what a manly thing this crash was. At times, I may say this in a half - righteous manner: What caused the collapse after all? We all have a million reasons for that. After all, testosterone. An infinite boldness, an endless so - called courage, from another point of view, is merely foolhardy, man - made, poisonous maleity sometimes said. I don't want women to be any better at acting that way. I want society to develop in such a way that institutions such as the financial sector will not continue to exert themselves on this man - made attitude, this danger ratio. I don't think that's good. I'd like to discuss the exchange of two words. People who spoke first, not to protest anything they said, but to think about it. Because sometimes, maybe not much longer, but on the other hand, you've heard over the years about some of these rules that narrow this down, it might somehow get into financial interests somewhere, someone doesn't make as much money, some company don't work as well as something like that. Then I think about - this sounds dramatic, but listen only - the civil war in the United States. There people were arguing about slavery. Just so I say the civil war was basically about slavery, for all who want to reduce it, it was more complicated, too, but mostly it was about whether slavery should be permitted in the new crews that were then on the way into the United States. There were real economic reasons behind the fact that some people did not want to cancel slavery, they were real economic grounds behind that view. Would we ever agree with that opinion today? I don't think so. It costs money to free people, to bring equality into the community. It's just gonna have to. That's just no reason. We're here to achieve this goal. I believe it is, in fact, a fundamental element of the fact that we can develop as animal species. We're a little stuck in some primitive impulse. We're going to get mad all the time. We want our revenge easily. It's fashion to hate when everything's fried. We are primitive in many ways. One thing I still feel is this tremendous difference between men and women in some sectors when it comes to sex, especially between men and women, but also when it comes to other sexes. It was shown in speed, in prisons, and by some kind of irony of destiny, in the financial sector. In any case, I support and thank this matter for its contributions and, in fact, would like to commend this fine category, exorbitant, for being very active in this category. You can see that it attracts attention. I think that team deserves commendation for the good work he's doing in the seminary. I think I'll come by to support other matters, at least in the same litigation, of the class that makes such an excellent case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u123	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to legalize health insurance law, No. 112/2008, with subsequent changes. This bill suggests changes in health insurance laws relating to health care agreements. There's a line at 40 st. The law on health care negotiations adds two new conditions for having a contract. On the one hand, it is suggested that a minister be allowed to negotiate health care or health care arrangements, such as the 14th, 15, and 17. Health Care Programme, No. 40/2007, the decision of the Generals must be made to determine which agreement to make as well as the main basis for that agreement. This means that the Minister, or after any other members of the council, would propose a recommendation to the General for a hearing in which a minister will be appointed to negotiate with certain clinics or clinics, one or more, and that, in the conclusion, there will be a clear discussion of the commission that the Minister has to negotiate the party at any time. Other conditions for a contract laid down at 40 st. The law will also apply to agreements made by the Minister to the Generals' conclusions in the absence of specific recommendations. The purpose of this change is that the minister's commission to the democratic elected representatives of the nation at one time is to negotiate with the private partners on the business of important basic health care systems. Privately, ministers can make policy decisions for the health system without checking for the council. According to the movers, moving more and more of the foundation of the welfare system into private business is not going to make it necessary to respect a greater proportion of the people's wishes that basic services, such as government services, will be granted. It must be ensured that privators do not trawle in agreement with the government in order to receive their payment without caring for the duties of the public. It must be ensured that all the people of the country have constant access to the service and that the patient's payment will be kept to a minimum. There, many scholars have noted that private health care is more likely to increase the total cost than it reduces because of high administrative costs, increased monitoring costs, inflexible contracts, and inconsistencies and uninterrupted services. An April 2013 survey revealed that 80% of the population wanted health care to be primarily public. In recent years, the proportion of people who want the State to handle hospitals has increased substantially. In total, 80.7% of the study was conducted in a comparable survey in 2006, 83.2% in a 2015 survey, and 86% in the May 2017 Social Research Institute. In the May 2017 survey, about 80% of all health - care centers want to be expelled from the government and nearly 70% want to be expelled from the government. Then you have over 86. a person recently signed his/her signature to put medical concerns first and to place extra money in the medical system. The bill also suggests this change in the 40th limit. the management of health insurance that in the agreement for health care, the exchange of profits made in the management of the private sector should be specifically required. On the contract, including the It should be noted that the individual is forbidden to pay for his/her owners' wages. Hence, the provision of this law is an unreserved ban on interest when making contracts for health care and will also be permitted to discuss how to make otherwise a profit. The directive applies to all agreements for health care that are made on the basis of health insurance legislation, and a context of this procedure should be noted, therefore, far more than the terms of a-joints. This bill. The purpose of this law is obvious, but it is to prevent the public tax, which is devoted to providing health care to citizens, from spending money to owners of associates who have made agreement with ministers for health care services and who are paid in part or completely with the public tax. The tax decided by the General Assembly that it should truly be used by the health system. If there is leftover on the business of a private car which is funded with tax money, the access to investment in the business should be used, thereby increasing the quality of the service, improving the patient's management and working conditions and the education of employees, and contributing to better health services that use public funds in a responsible manner. This suggests the same content in Sweden, where there has been an increase in private welfare services during the past few years that money paid to owners of welfare services have not provided well, and Swedish soybeans have suggested that such sources be forbidden to pay interest. It should be noted that the owners of such enterprises can still pay themselves what they think is right in relation to their business. But they will not be able to pay off interest, but the tax rate of wages is much lower than from pay. They must be in accordance with the regulations of this bill. The transporters of this bill are along with the one standing here. Councilmen Logi Einarsson Einarsson S. Brjánsson, Elíasdóttir Friða Frifjörður, Ólafur Ölfur Ágústsson, Guðmundur and Andri Thorsson, and Helga Vala Helgadóttir. Mr. President. This bill is not being measured or similar for the first time. It's the fourth time recommended for this bill. True, that is slightly different, but almost consistent. But it was first proposed to the 145th legislature. At that time, Sigríður Ingibjörg was the daughter of Ingadóttir. Last year, we went through a discussion about private business and the clinical community, I think the company's name, the authority that company should have, and who could be given to them, whether it was a minister or a surgeon. The Ministry and the surgeon's office agreed to grant large measures. Mr. President, this needs to be sharpened. That bill sure does. The public in the country calls for public members to run the basic medical services that run the clinics and clinics. We are to heed that call. We are not to take the individual ministers over to set the foundation for the community in private business without the granting of democratic elected representatives of the people sitting here at the General Assembly. The constantly putting more groundworks in private business comes to us who are sitting here at the General Assembly. It really matters, as well as the way tax is treated. We have recent observations and analyses showing that hypercusis is in many parts of our system, as it is, and especially in buildings that are run in town. Too many cheap measures are being performed, and much more are being done there than in any other country. I like to mention tonsils, it's almost a search for the child who still has glands in the country, so it's more frequent and often more measures than in neighboring countries and in countries we compare with. For example, the same can be said of mirrors on knees and other examples. There is certainly reason to examine this in particular and to consider the handling of tax dollars and the conditions of a service contract. That is where we, the State, should set standards, not those who sell the ministry; they should not set the standards themselves. As far as I'm concerned, the Council is in charge of relating these matters. That's the bill I hope to get a good publicity on the welfare committee and get back into the Senate Hall. This is the fourth time recommended, and the fourth time it goes through the committee, and I hope it will not be put to sleep there again. I was confident that the left movement is serving in the majority of the welfare committees, even though it hasn't done so in the past three years.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u124	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir It's a whole Oddný G.. It's a Harðardóttir kid. I admit I haven't participated in discussions about this bill before, I don't have any memory to do that, but I've been asked a few times, and I'm not in bed. The welfare committee. I'm just gonna be honest and say that I think things here are really interesting. I think I will and will. To a large extent, a senator agrees on the objectives of a report. The current government intends to have a major health supply. All the people of the country are to enjoy a fine ministry regardless of their economic status. The management of the health care clinic as the first stop, the shape of a global health policy, and the reduction of patient payment, so I think that the objective of the government and the bill can go together. I'd like to ask you what. A candidate in one sentence in the paper where I set out the purpose of the present government would all be found in the government covenant. V.E.G. However, the health minister of Svandís Svavarsdóttir has visited a group several times and discussed his ideas within the limitations of the brief discussion here. The report says, with the permission of the president: ▪ In recent years, it has been noted that government policy is moving more and more of the foundation of the welfare system into private business. I'd like to ask you what. Senator: What is the policy of the present government? Or is this a remnant when this bill was submitted before?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u125	Mr. President. As I said before, the bill is now submitted for the fourth time. I guess we've had what we need. A senator noticed that I did not say that when I gave my talk earlier. Then I said that the transporter assessment was that it would not be a pleasure to bring more and more of the basic welfare system into private business. But last year there were three clinics in private business. When I was revising the report and preparing the reassignment, I have overlooked it. I hope private business doesn't get promoted here while I'm at the top. Svandís is at the Department of Health. We have generally agreed on how these matters should be handled. Clearly, the need to go back. It's not enough for me to say, "We're stopping now, and we're not going to go off to an increased private business, we're going to reverse the trend. " As the situation is now, she is hurting Land Hospital and that service, this combination of private business and the work of specialists at the hospital. This is not good enough because we need to be careful of the patient's best interests. This bill does not go so far as to say it. Rather, it says: The common council must be allowed to meddle in the way the problem is because it affects the ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u126	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct a change in the law of foreigners, of the right of children to the grant of residence. That's what the whole council will do for a reverend, huh? paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson, Þorsteinn Víglundsson and Þorgerður Gunnarsdóttir, as well as me. The bill was submitted to the 147th legislation of legislatures. He was chairman of the Pawel Bartoszek, Senator of the Cradle, but it didn't get done at the time. The bill suggested a 1st. 71. g. The law says so, by permission of the President: If a parent has a permit on the basis of 58, 61,◯3., 65,◯67., 70.,76, he or she has the right to grant a permit to a child under 18 years of age. ; or 78, gt. and/or................ or......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The objective of this bill is to strengthen the right of children whose parents from countries outside the European Economic Area to accompany their parents to Iceland. According to local law on foreigners, No. 80/2016, it is permitted to issue leave clearances for children if parents have that provision on the basis of 58. ..... non-stop deposit, 61. eng., employment permit due to expertise, 63. "Reservation for athletes, 70." eng., entitlement on grounds of marriage or marriage, 73. ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ en.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. .., patents on the basis of special links to the country. Transporters of this bill change believe that more groups of residents should agree with the directive and provide proper family unity in the case of children under 18 years of age. First, it is suggested that resuscitated by temporary lack of staff, according to Article 62 of the Treaty. Provides a future right for children to accompany their parents to the country. This is a provision that can be provided for up to two years unless clearly defined and temporary action takes longer. It should be noted that since the implementation of the law in 2016, the provision of a provision for residence may be the basis of an untimely provision, such as the regulations 61, 63, 73, 74, and 78th. which are listed as 71.g. the law of foreigners. In contrast with that requirement, if a parent's visa is based on residence because of temporary lack of staff, it is not permitted to allow a child to stay. Second, it is suggested that patents on the basis of study also allow a child to live and live without exception. The current law states that only students who are pursuing advanced university studies, doctors, and research here on the basis of the 65th Psalm 65 will be conducted. the right to have a family unity. It cannot be seen what the need is to separate students' children from basic education, thus allowing their parents to choose between coming to school and being with their children. Third, it seems similar to indicate that if a child is left with a parent on the basis of contracts with other countries, he will be allowed to follow him. These are visas given to young people aged 18 in their age to come to Iceland to learn about land and culture. As a result of current laws, young parents and e.g. Single parents cannot take advantage of the provision of a provisional resort. At last, it is suggested that land permit for missionaries and volunteers, as is 67 C.E. .... just according to the above as well as a permit for potential human victims according to Article 75. and living permit for human hall victims according to the 76th st. If the bill of the law continues to be a provision for qualified employees on the basis of the 64 cooperative or service contracts. Article 68 of the Treaty, environ ment, environ ment, environ ment, environ ment, environ ment, environ ment, environ ment. as well as deposit by special and legitimate means according to the 79th gross ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... granting parents with such permission is not the right to escort their parents to the country. In most cases, this is a license that is authentically intended for temporary living. However, the evidence that the rights of children are relevant may also be applicable in this case, however, the changes presented here are considered to be reasonable to their at least A respectable president. When it comes to the right to bring children, spouses, or other family members, Iceland has a position similar to that of the Norwegian countries. Legally, the situation seems to have improved somewhat with the foreigners who were accepted there during the last terms, but there are still many things to be fixed. These laws are constantly developing, and this bill is part of it. Children are simply to be able to follow their parents regardless of whether their parents are studying or working temporarily. Clearly, then, this rule contributes to the discrimination of the sexes. Men are more likely to move temporarily abroad and leave their children behind. This shows the experience. And we as a nation, as a group, are to take the lead here as well as anywhere else. We want Iceland to be the land of opportunity, that people are willing to move here, and that people are enabled to do so. We want people we want to move to the country and to make it possible for them to move here with their families, with children under 18 years of age. It's the wish of transporters to get a good review from the highest level. A top-of-the-art Board of Education, come back here to the second. as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u127	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to correct a change in the rights and duties of the state's employees, changes that would eliminate the obligation to the EEA Civil Rights when it comes to government work. At the bill, there is a group of restorations, but the case was previously delivered by Pawel Bartoszek, then a member of the council. It's a bit of the same hurt, let's say, or the same family as the bill spoken above, but this is about the rights of foreigners in Iceland. The bill is very short, and it reads 1st par. So, with President's permission: ◯4. a number. 1.mg. Section 6. The law will pass away. I think it's only right to go to the current 6. which this number is part of. It discusses the general requirement of receiving an order, or scheme, for a government job. First, it is 18 years of age, however, with some exceptions in cleaning ups, shipping jobs, and the like; second, it is legal, and third, essential health. Coming to the fourth condition, which says, by permission of the president: It's a Civil Civil Right. However, citizens from other countries can be hired by the European Economic Area or Member States of the European Free Trade Association or move countries to work on the same terms as Icelandic citizens. This law can also be replaced in other foreign citizens, if specifically indicated. Step 5 then discusses the general education and the special education required for the job. Article 6 discusses financial resources in the case of a job that is covered with income. So the bill goes on to say that the requirement for a citizen's right to go away, but that the requirements for age, law, health, education, and financial guardianship remain unchanged. It is possible that at the time of the introduction of the specific provision for the EU population according to our commitments under the EEA Convention, this was an expansion of the provision. It is also true to say that the bill is not changing the arrangement for officials, e.g. Justices, policemen, prosecutors, Ministry or government officials. Most countries set such rules when it comes to those who have such authority, but it is much less likely that this will apply to all jobs, such as teachers, doctors, nurses, specialists, or others who work for the State of the country. In all parts of the North countries, requirements for public employment have been dropped, but such rules do not exist in the Netherlands, Canada, the United States, Britain, or Ireland. In other words, existing rules are inhibitory and diminishing the flexibility of the public labour market. We need a number of people who have specialized education or special qualifications for the work involved. In our opinion, there is no particular reason to rule out people who, for example, have a history of e.g. Been here for a few years, but for some reason, it doesn't have an Icelandic citizen's right to live and may not even seek him. The rules or regulations that a person has an Icelandic citizen's right do not apply to a general labour market. There's a general principle on employment and residence rights simply dead enough. We can see no reason why the State puts stricter standards, but it would certainly be possible to set down objective issues on the topic, such as Icelandic and so forth. The number of foreigners living in Iceland has grown rapidly. We are to use them in human form, and we are to welcome these people to work. Certainly, it is the law in the current law that, as it is said, a foreigner should be hired. I think we can agree that that that word is unnecessary and should come out. At a time when the bill was for treatment at what time. The General Assembly was therefore referred to the General Education Committee and made it available for at least four weeks. A long time ago, the comments on the bill given here were received. There, including the U.S.A. there are reports from the two largest employment organisations in the country, the German and the BSRB. It is fun to tell you that both of these organizations do not see any danger that this bill will become a law. I think this is part of what we're supposed to do and that we're in line with today, is in harmony with the facts. We've become such a community that there are very many foreigners here, and I think, for example. that refer to them as 14% of the population in Reykjavík. We're not supposed to put a special stone in their streets in order to work here at the State. I expect the bill to get a good coverage and to follow through on this discussion. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u128	A respectable president. That's the best thing you can do. I took note that in reviewing the previous issue - a review I'm not really sure that I agree in a physical way, although it's not contrary to the case - it's probably a matter to explain, to take it into the constitution, etc. The review says, with the permission of a president: ▪ Because of the wording of a report, it is appropriate to note that the proposal does not cover all public jobs (the public countries and rural areas) but only jobs in the State, however. The terms of the law on the rights and duties of the citizens of the state. I'm having a bit of a struggle to figure out exactly what this means. I see that in a paper with a bill that was then submitted, the state of the country is ◯. I couldn't find it in the review, and I couldn't find it in a quick search if there were any restrictions in the law to hire people outside the EEA to become part of the rural community. Actually, I would've wanted to talk about the reviews with the BSRB, but I cut this off. Granted, this is just shown in a report. I know why. A senator to make certain other features of the law not being presented here?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u129	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry or comment, the answer. I prefer to think that the review of the BSRB is moving on - i.e. that the BSRB does not have a material goal - this is a government - and government - especially so that it does not take care of others. I think that's their main purpose. I'll be happy to admit that I don't have the guts to give a clear answer to whether the law on farm workers is compatible or whether there are rules about foreigners working in rural areas. I don't know that well enough so that I can trust to give a clear answer. But the bill, as it is done, is about changing laws on the rights and responsibilities of the citizens of the state, and this limited the set of values.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u130	A respectable president. I'd like to get it in, just for the curiosity of a speaker, that in a paper with the bill, as it is presented now, the wording is different. The old bill said, with President's permission: A lecture in the government's public work. It's in the new edition, with President's permission: Advertisement for public work. This adjustment has evidently been made with the report. I thought this was just a strange comment because I don't see how something in a report could affect the removal of something from the law. The letter of the Law would never be left if it was forbidden to hire people outside the EEA into the country government; if not found in the letter of the law, even if they were found in some paper in some bill that canceled it. It was just weird, and I wanted to ask. I don't expect an answer from what. A senator, but he thought it was interesting.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-01-20.u131	Mr. President. I am still going to answer without an answer. No, I think you're absolutely right on that one. Senator. I read the BSRB report so that they are dealing with the rights and responsibilities of the government's employees are pointing out various regulations. They're going over it. It's a detailed report that's fine with me. But I think their comment was exactly related to this and that this was taken into account in the report. There is official work at the government that this bill does. I think they just wanted to call attention to the fact that more jobs were publicized by both state and country groups. I'll allow me to interpret it that way.
