ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u1	Mr. President. I recommend a greater part of the employment board on bill for hunting fees. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by a number of visitors listed in the Committee. We've had 11 meetings on this matter that came in at the end of September and had a guest from 25 parties. Since more than a few people came from each side, there have been extensive and well - discussed on the job committee and on a number of accounts. The bill suggests that a new total fishing fee will be established. In 2012, there have been several changes, and more methods than one have been used to determine the price of fishing. The bill of this suggests that each year's currency of hunting costs is based on the elation of the fishing industry on each of its crops. It is suggested that the price rate of cohesion will be 33%, which is the same currency as the current law. It is suggested that fishing be set at the end of each year for the next calendar wound, rather than be determined in August before the coming fishing year. Changes are made to simplify the management of a hunting fee, consisting of largely the work of the Fishing Committee, to the office of the governor of the tax, and also to a special Council Committee on Fishing Costs. The bill also suggests that the so-called holiday target will remain unchanged, i.e. It should be noted that each subject pays 20% of the first 4.5 million. K. The stress of fishing costs and 15% of the next 4.5 million. K. Stress. A greater proportion of them contributes to an adjustment of 6. in order to meet the differences between small and medium-sized companies in the seas, as well as the urban areas. On the basis of current legislation, the calculus of the fishing fee is determined on the basis of tax (EBT) profits in the marine industry, according to the Icelandic Habitat fishing and processing report, calculated for bottom fish and for seawater. Due to the time frame at the publication of the report, this is based on at least two-year-old information. The bill's method for the scheme-based decision is designed to facilitate abnormal fluctuations, but the procedure of the current law includes largely dependent on gang swings. According to 3 mg. Section 5. The bill shall be the owners, the managers, and the operators to give a report on income and the costs of fishing ships and their extensions, as detailed in the directive. Codes 90 and 92,◯94. par. the management of income taxes apply to the collection and output of information as appropriate. If information is not submitted, it is insufficient or disgruntled, or it is considered necessary for further information, the local taxpayer should challenge it to replace it. Disregarding the challenge, he calculates income and cost. A fish lab is permitted to provide information to the head of the state tax from financial and tax reports and reports and to be the Office for Ministry on the data provided by the Agency. 5 mg. The same article states that if the calculation of the algorithm was found to be a significant error, it would be permitted to reassign the currency according to Article 4. about the sum of fishing fees to the last two fishing years, although it has been found to be too low. The majority suggest a 3 mg word change. Section 5. and that there is also a requirement for a special fee made by the head of the state tax if income is underestimated or the cost is often reported later on in view. The value of each stock for each fishing vessel is based on information that will be listed in the report on the cost of fish costs and the cost of operating with the tax payer in the marine road. To make this easier for the owner of fishing vessels, the report will be signed when it is opened by tax returns. A specific decision is required to manage the processing of marine ships through the implementation of marine resources and, on the basis of loose comparison to the production of unsuspecting fish in unscheduled fields, to indicate that the storage of frozen fish catchs are reduced by 10%. In addition, the value of all sources of information is suggested to be increased by 10% in these accounts, as available data on bottom-water resources and up-to-date resources are not entirely comparable to those of different species living under both the fishing and the implementation of the target species. This is in effect similar to an arrangement that is in accordance with the current law, which allows for the fishing fees in marine species to be any more abundant than on bottom-fish species, where a larger part of the profit of production of marine resources is contained in the strain. In March 2018, Deloitte's accounting agency published a report on the management of marine soil companies according to the joint petition of the marine rights and agricultural ministers and the head of the industry. The report stated that the income in the fishing road has grown to about 25 billion in 2016 or about 9%. Because the loss of income has been partly reduced, especially in larger communities, and if the EBITDA dropped by 15 billion dollars, by 22%. In part, this is due to significant reductions in labor in 2016, less than 19% of the previous year, mainly due to hairy failure. In addition, Deloitte's report stated that it was for EBITDA to get quite worse in the management year 2017, including Because of adverse external economic development. In this way, the price of marine products has dropped substantially in the United States and the pay number has increased. The reduction in oil prices has had a positive effect on the survival of 2016, but by 2017, oil prices have refurbished. Thus, the EBITDA repertoire of 2017 may have fallen by 203/437% since the previous year. In recent years, the number of independent fishing drivers in the fishing industry has declined rapidly. According to Fish Room figures, the number of fishing projects with the power of the labor departments has decreased from 946 to 382 from the beginning of the fishing year 2005-03/2006 to the beginning of the current fishing year, i.e. The number of patients that have decreased to less than 60% in 12 years has been reduced. To date, both fishing targets and hook - forces are listed, but the bigst part of this change lies in the small boat structure. At the beginning of the season of the fishing season, the hook - mark boats were 354; at the beginning of the current fishing season, they had reached 258. So it has decreased by a quarter in four years. At the same time, a growing share of 50 of the largest hook - power teams has become 83%. In fact, many hook - bearing subs seem to have little means or no means to operate. In addition to internal and external circumstances, there is likely to be a 2013 law change here, at which point the boat's size was lifted from 15 bridges to 15 meters maximum and 30 grosstons, increasing demand for a hook - up point. A building agency has examined changes in the survival of some marine export companies involved in the implementation of the Agency. Their income dropped substantially between 2016 and 2017. This is in line with the statistics from Iceland's Habitats, which believe that the export of marine products between 2016 and 2017 has decreased by more than 15%. This information can likely be applied to other similar size enterprises. Seafood companies vary in size, and their operating conditions vary greatly. In cases where fishing costs become very taxing, and it even adds to difficult business conditions, business needs to respond and adjust. In some cases it can mean sales of fishing warrants, which can cause great difficulties, especially in small TVs where small and medium - sized companies are the weight of a vulnerable sea area that depends largely on the sea streets. At the same time, it is likely to lead to an increase in fishing resources. This is shown in a memo published by the Compulsion Institute. Commenting on the case of the committee, the situation was considered when fishing and production of seafood are being practiced by fishing companies. The trade of such parties, according to the Commission, is a high priority for the price of the stock market, which is generally lower than market prices. Thus, the construction of such a fishing business may be more efficient in competition with unpublished fish farming, as well as by nonfishing fish - producing fishing companies that sell markets have fewer opportunities for business ventures in integrated activities. The Committee discussed the decision of the price of sea forces in cases such as these and questions about price formation and the prognostication of the so - called cover-up, discussed in 57th chapter. a law on income taxes. There was no doubt about options that the government tax manager's office has legal requirements, as well as those that the office has access to data to add a price comparison. However, it was also noted to the Commission that the cover is a difficult task, that it may be difficult to find out the right price, especially when it is not too difficult, and that it takes time to go through such a government case. No later than December 1, each year, the national tax manager according to the bill shall make a suggestion for a minister for the sum of the fish for crops. With the bill, the government tax manager's office is authorized to take a special look if there is evidence of an abnormal cover-up in an integrated fishing industry or in an integrated marine export company. The majority feel that this is a proper way of dealing with the discussion of these issues on the committee as elsewhere. The majority of these points point out that the prices of a guards at the seamen's catch - up market and contributes to the proper and normal production of the seafood market and the work of the seamen according to the law of No. 13/1998, as to the price of the price of the prices and the seamen's decision. The majority of them consider it important that the work of a plant be strengthened, pointing to some of the factors involved in the management of the situation, e.g. the need to revise Article 3 paragraph 3 law on sizes and quality categories as well as on expounding authority clearances in Article 6. The law. The committee also noted, first of all, that it was more reasonable to say that the decision of the Guard's Office was time again, second, that the Price Room could not prevent the sale of certain fish, even though lower prices had been used as a reference to exposé, and third, that the gross size of all boats and ships should be publicly recorded. A comment on the matter was made on the fact that those who earn a brace and there should be paid a bounty to the state by the bill. A major factor points out that only a part of innovation is at sea or on the grid. Also, the majority of the items point out that with a sentence of law No. 49/2017, on the change of various laws because of the amendment of marine eco-efficiency, increased responsibilities on the state's institutions were put in charge and researched the thongs and the seawaters. In the treatment of that matter at the council, the Committee called a major part of the current employment committee was called on to say that the purpose of hunting costs was, among other things, meeting the costs of research, monitoring, etc. It was also repeated that studies were important, including where the fish and the sea were important to the environment. For example, a marine - growing ecosystem research agency was assigned to study the laws of the marine environment. The majority suggest the following changes to the bill: It is suggested that crops with less value than 100 million are used. K. In a year on the average of the three - year - olds, the root of a fishing fee would not be set. The majority believe that fishing costs can influence the motivation to pick up such species. The types that can fall below are e.g. blues, sandwashes, and tattoos, and possibly the scallop. The wording of a 3 mgr is rendered. Section 5. and that there is a new paragraph that will require a specific price to be paid to an employee if he has an understatement or an overdose. This price should be paid regardless of whether an undercalculable income and/or a frequent cost will lead to correction of the price of fishing costs. The adjustment of the 3rd mg regimen is implemented. Section 6. In the event that the first 40% of the first 6 million are off-graded. K. stress for each year. In view of the greater part, the cut-off target needs to be strengthened further, with this adjustment specifically responding to the difficult situation of SMEs, which do not enjoy the size of the big enterprise, but which is creating a large structure in their community. Reduced emissions are much more dependent on exacerbations and have resulted in compression and loss of function and convergence. The change is also proposed to 1st. 7. if referred to the government taxpayer's office, but from the end of the year, office collects public pay. The more part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the above proposals made in a special Senate document that I will explain, but under this opinion, the printed page as follows, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, head of the professional committee and producer, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjándðursson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé and Njáll Traust Friðbertsson. The adjustment proposal reads to a bill for more part of the labour board on fishing fees: 1st At Section 3. Add a new paragraph, as follows: Necessary stocks with a value value of less than 100 billion. K. In a year on the average of the three - year - olds, the root of a fishing fee is not made up of them. 2. Five o'clock. a. Instead of that word, at 3 mg, the word "politicals " was used in the first century B.C.E. Come on, let's go. b. Add a new paragraph as price four. mgr., as follows: If you experience a review of an article that can be found in 3 mg. that it is incorrectly filled out so that income is seriously underestimated, or the cost frequently often is often high, the head of the Treaty should add a special price to 5% of the underdeveloped income level and/or the above costs. This should be paid regardless of whether an undercalculable income and/or a number of costs will lead to correction of the base of the fishing fee. It does not matter that correction is made later than the proposal for a minister on Article 4. The decision by the head of the head of the tax on the stress of this fee is charged to the head tax Committee, as is the law of No. 30/1992. c. Instead of the word "shutstourgs " at 4 mg. come: it is required. 3. 1st matter of 3 mg. Section 6. Puts it this way: During the pressures of hunting fees, only 40% of the first 6 billion should be used. K. each year's stress for each currency. 4. Instead of the word 'tollman,'1st mg. 7. Come on, state tax manager. 5. Instead of the reference, ◯7.How's it going to be? three-mgr. Section 8. Come on, y'all, y'all, y'all, y'all, y'all, y'all, y'all, y'all, y'all, y'all, y'all, y'all, y'all, y'all. 6th The abbreviation "Environous" of the 10th paragraph. ... goout. This is the way it sounds a word--not a holy word but--I know it. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] [[The Holy Word?]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[Up front.]] I know this is very important and almost sacred, but there are some things that can't be changed when it's good. [[The point is, it just can't be changed.]] However, much work has been done, and much consultation has taken place within the committee at this point since our discussion. I believe that there were views that were made clear about the concern of men of high fishing fees for these small and medium-sized enterprises that developed 200%, even a 30% increase in fish fishing year, 2017,2018. This has led to an even greater compression, and many men are trying to dry up their thirst in the hope that this part of their management spending will reflect their well - being. In this bill, we also extend our hunting expenses in a very sensitive way. We are achieving what has actually been accomplished since 2012 when the fishing fees were applied, which were more extensive than the fishing costs set in 2004, which were primarily aimed at the research of the Marine Research Institute in the ocean and marine life. In 2012 the fishing fees were revised, the total fishing fees were tried, and the article sought to get more out of the way. But what was missing was to obtain information as far as time is concerned and then to place food - related fishing costs, that hunting costs could swing, rise or fall, according to the survival of the article each time. Information on valuables came from Fish Labs, and the government tax manager receives specific information on the interests of the seafood companies and products. This can be set up and found algorithms for the recovery of any species, which, in turn, means whole over; 33% of this algorithm strain will then be applied to the application of the alpha wound afterwards. The government tax manager will then contribute it to the late part of the year to the minister compared with the information that has been prepared for the so called. I think all classes have spoken of extending the maximum demand in real time and we have arrived there. Then it is a political decision each time whether we have 33% of the calculus or more. It will always be a political decision. But the methodology that such as that, I believe, I have arrived at a place where we should, wherever we stand, be able to write on it. If we want to keep the cost of living, we will have reached it as far as possible in real time as possible with the outcome of this article. It is then another arm that this small and medium-sized enterprise is elsewhere than this largest company with a lot of resources on its own. Therefore, we have suggested that they be met by a greater proportion of the employment authorities with these extra payoffs, and we press them at the bottom of which they most benefit from these small and medium-sized enterprises, benefit them, and will make a big difference to them. The committee learned on Thursday was with the U.S. subboat owners who were very comfortable with this methodology that they were pressing support for those who really needed it and would relieve many of the concerns that were not seen in the operating field compared to the same fishing fee. Since this has been done very well in my opinion, I am amazed that here is a suggestion to dismiss the case, dismiss the case, and suggest that the same fishing fee be done next year, that we live the same law that we have seen to be maligned, based on two or three years of information. As if that were to be dismissed, we are talking about the next year's Almanac River, the fishing fees may be 12.5 billion. Then I think it will be useful to a number of communities that will depend on that fishing fee, this small and medium-sized company, so the next year, the fishing rate could fall to 2.5 billion or less, based on reimbursement of two, three years back in time. Is this what they want? Or is it making some kind of change in plans to change the fishing system, changing plans for hunting costs? You can't tell what's going on. Council members who have spoken about the importance of making consultation and building on good preparation with all relevant parties and consultations within the council. If the program proposal is not accepted, to dismiss the case, I assume those who made the adjustment would agree to accept this bill with these changes. Where, then, will the discussion take place? Where do you get all the work done there? Where's the good work there? What are they talking about there? Is this poopulism into one thing or what responsibility is behind such a project that in hunting fees people are going to change the laws about the government of fish fishing? I'm just gonna do it between 2 and 3. ... awrong.? I don't understand this kind of work and language done by people I thought should be responsible, people who talk about and call for responsibility in this case to others who have tried to win this case very well, and called in everyone who's been asked to cover this case, they work with a number of parties, and they've got lots of references, but now, without being called after consultation, reviews, or whatever, to go after the wet dreams wet dreams we built, and the Coalgains to offer up all the resources in the next 20 years. [[Take it up and Pirata.]] And Pizza. They are now the liberal groups assembled in a chorus. It's amazing. If this is not being the case, the large structure of the so - called left Party, the United States, and the Piranium is about to go to this auction, which will only result in further compression in a few years, groups that don't want to be on the right or the left - but the restoration always goes forward without a mask and makes others join them. [[The president calls.]] [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u2	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the review of the Committee opinion. There are some questions that arise on that review. First of all, I'm going to say that I don't feel that it's such a good reason for all the fine - looking talk that comes out of nowhere. Senator. Of course, it is clear that the changes made by this section confirm that it remains the large production that is best, which is naturally obviously the will of more parts. It is not being helped by the large group called SMEs. It's being helped the least, which in itself is just fine. But I'd like to ask you why. Councilman: What is the effect on individual groups? Was the effect on individual fishing groups calculated? Increased or lowers total fishing costs when changes occur? Has the majority appreciated how this could affect investments in the article using these methods? [[The president calls.]] And as with terms of compression, will this reduce or increase compression in this article?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u3	Mr. President. We were contacted last morning by a small boat owner's union, which has concluded that this has a positive effect on those in the grate power system who are pressing off the discount. It's important that everyone out there gets a higher peak discount, not just in the past. It uses all small and medium-sized structures. We know that this is a provisional requirement for the next year's fishing costs in the bill based on the average of the last three years compared to the delivery back then. There's the fishing fee of codfish, e.g. reduces less than 24 bucks. of 13.8, so, indeed, this will help very well with the intermediate and medium sized forms. [[The president calls.]] Since 2020, this sensitive delivery link, which I think will benefit them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u4	A respectable president. To one who pays 10 million in hunting fees, this is of great importance. For those who pay 100 million in hunting fees, this is far less important. So I ask again: Was this measured and laid down on individual categories, i.e. The effect?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u5	No, no.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u6	Raises or decreases total fishing costs after the rest of the sector changes? Third, were investment effects examined in particular? Will this reduce or encourage future investers? I'm pointing out that there's probably no such innovation in any industry in Iceland as in a fishing road. Did the other part go to evaluate whether this would reduce or encourage increased compression? Did It Really End? This change will be so important that it reduces the degree of compression. A senator seems to be worried? There are many other questions that arise when you listen to them. A senator reviews the committee's opinion. I cannot get them to now but will do so in my speech later. But here's three, four questions I've asked you before. A senator twice.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u7	Mr. President. This will reduce compression. All the information we've received from the U.S. miniboat owners, and calculations from the Ministry show that the increase in discount is best for those paying under 10 million at hunting costs. It really needs to be there. Of course, those who pay 100 million in hunting costs always receive this fixed discount, which is rising from over 1,500 of you. K. to a maximum of 2.4 today. When we've completed the hunting fees, when they come for 2020, this will be sensitive to the value of each species's resources, to benefit everyone, whether it's intermediate size, small or larger, men to pay for each of their respective valuables. It must be what we want as a nation, getting a fair catch fee from everyone, from whether man is large, medium, or small. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] But because of their position, we take into account those who are least in this article.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u8	Mr. President. For almost 20 years, I've had an experience in this conference, and I believe that the voice of a special interest force never sounded as clear as that of the Chairman of the Committee as 1 of the majority opinion. It's got to be said right now. But I would like to ask, What is the hurry? It's a down gang. It's a low oil price. It's quite a piece of work, isn't it? What's the hurry? Why was it impossible to make better use of the time and to cross - line agreement? It wasn't done. Why was this not done? What's the hurry? I'd like to ask you, " What's more urgent, e.g. but to fulfill promises to older citizens and micropunchers? Why do older cities and microorganists have to be covered? It has been two days since the government groups agreed at councils to make adjustments in terms of the decline in donations for older citizens and disability. My question is very simple: What's the hurry? [[The president calls.]] Why should the structure be put ahead of senior citizens and disability? [[Foreground: Tell the truth.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u9	Mr. President. It's very special. A senator balances these two items. I think it's a very trivial presentation. This is not a single equation. With the suggestion here, it's from the why. A senator and others are being lenient to the rich by offering a market route, putting everything on auction. The richest have the best chance, the most access to capital. It's moving resources on together. [[Up front.]] They're saluting the rich. What's the stakeholder for the rich in this council hall? It must be the three groups that unite to present a curious change proposal for a change in fishing law in a hunting business. It's amazing that humans do that. It's just that they're talking about a warrant auction. And where are they standing? [[The president calls.]] Even government funds are not meant to be given, some dark fund is spoken of in a country that is not a administrative position. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Even government funds are not supposed to be paid in these people. [[For example, consider: Let's take the discount on the big shot.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u10	The president asks why. Councilmen taking the time limit, they're a crisis.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u11	Mr. President. I ask the Senate to notice that the simple question is not answered what is on here was an answer used in some kind of nonsense. Clearly, it is. A senator does not understand the suggestion and the point. Rather, we must be careful when all the suggestions of the greater part are presented, in case of urgency. A senator does not understand a simple suggestion from a smaller section of the council. We'll go over it later. But the question is not answered. What's the hurry? Of course, we ask ourselves with the socialist list, as the left has repeatedly said and been proud of, a socialist at the counter, I understand them. What is the business of the left greener government instead of pushing against a bill that is in the interest of the output, a bill that is primarily aimed at reducing the cost of the project to less than 4 billion while older citizens and disability are being left waiting? No matter what they say. It was two days ago that the greater part approved a reduction in expenses to older citizens. You can't say you're wrong. [[The president calls.]] [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] That's the way it is, my friends. [[The president calls.]] That's the way it is. [[The president calls.]] Face it. I ask again and again, and I repeat the question as a question. A senator must understand: What is the urgency of the situation? I can spell it later. [[An old-fashioned, political bitch.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u12	The president asks why. Senators, to remain calm and to respect the time limit, they are a crisis.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u13	Mr. President. What's the rush? Hv. A senator and a former marine chief should know that fishing fees expire at the end of the year. In fact, we are going to collect fishing expenses next year in order to meet huge health costs, disability, and the elderly. Gonna go for it. A senator letting the law slip out and don't charge the big money? [[Take it up: It's a month.]] What is it? A senator showing in this discussion? Just right down to offer no means of labor with a proposal that no one can understand. I don't think so. A senator understands the motion himself. Is it suddenly and without a plan to make any irresponsible proposals that will crush the entire fishing system and promote the government's financial contributions? It's just put in one small adjustment proposal. [[The president calls.]] I think people should sleep a little bit more at the suggestion before they start calling out how great she is. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u14	Mr. President. Perhaps it would be worth one Mass to have a word about it. Chairman of the professional road committee on the odd proposals available, including Yeah. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, who is going to go back 30, 40 years and make a transfer fund, most likely a transfer fund where politicians, against, or anyone else, are to share life's good things. But let it lie in between things. I'm more worried about small and medium-sized structures that I know about. The head of the professional road committee is deeply concerned. My question is: Are the proposals, changes made as a majority of the employment committees are doing about a payoff target and that it picks 40% of 6 million, in order to strengthen the scattered abroad? [[The president calls.]] Can a chairman claim this here in a speech chair? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u15	Mr. President. As a senator until about ten years of age, I have had my priorities at heart. I think those views need to be heard. I've had a lot of determination to keep my eyes on the land, whether it's farmers, sailors, workers, or whoever it is. That's why I've been talking about a big deal about the rise in the catch market. It was observed by graffiti and other national organisations that were introduced to the committee and to the rural areas in small marine areas that the rise and intensity of the free income markets would be the longest available to these small and medium - sized family edifications. That is why we joined together in making these changes that I fully stated have a positive influence for the settlements. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u16	Mr. President. Thank you. The head of the professional road committee for the answer. I also wondered about other changes made by a greater part of the employment committee, that is, don't charge on various crops, blue - long, sandmasks, paper tattoos, which I don't even know what they look like, but let them lie between things. Why is this done? And who are the people using these types of fish? Is that what you're doing? Is this some kind of supplementary development for these little fishing guys, the little boatmen, so that it is being built even more under the holiday goal, if it reaches the point where the majority of the professional roads recommend it?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u17	Mr. President. This was somewhat discussed, though, with those species weighing less heavily in the overall context, having such a broad range of species, and not reaching an average value of 100 million. K, but relevant in the large context, also for these small and medium-sized structures. It matters that it is the motivation to hunt these species, even to prevent a relapse. There's been a delay since they've been caught when the price of hunting has been so high that it just doesn't pay to bring these species to shore. These species are important in the context that today they are promoting the ability to catch them on these small, medium - sized boats and for those who receive these items and come ashore. This is also important that we are not in an indirect way contributing to a relapse.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u18	A respectable president. I believe here we are discussing a bill that will be a major milestone in the management and the methodology for the calculation of hunting fees, in which the calculation of time is closer than ever, and the application and collecting will be better correlated with the survival of the season. This has been the goal of the government for a long time, including the government. to deal with medium- and small-sized productions that are harder to deal with fluctuations in the resources than with larger companies. But only then, when it comes to the surface fish. Calculations have been made in other ways than in oceanic fish, since the prices are otherwise used. This has been recognized since 2012. The bill expects a change in methodology for calculating, and I want to direct that question to the question. Whether this change and whether the state is uncertain about the effect has been identified by the senator. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u19	Mr. President. Yes, we did some research on this, both what it meant to be 1 0 percent stress on the calculus sector and 10 per unit from the cryo-conservation, as indicated here. When the processing part was taken out of this bill, there were changes in the methodology, and this was critical, what it meant. But we feel that we have received a very clear answer and an explanation. It would not be changing anything from what has been, only to adjust with integrated industry and fishing under the same parties as in the marine sector. This did not really mean any increase. This would result in 10% of the stress because the entire processing part is calculated.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u20	A respectable president. Thank you. The elder's answer is directed to that question. The senator will be especially aware of the effects of a different process thereafter. At this point, of course, there is reason to be concerned about signs of significant mitigation, particularly from the macroil and hairy powder. There is evidence that they will be significantly less fish stocks next year and in the years that follow. I think there's a special reason to keep track of the effect of the change in estimate of fishing costs at the same time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u21	Mr. President. This really came as a criticism of both sides. Those in the large industry, the bullfish sector, believe that the surface area does not provide sufficient fishing fees compared to its resources, and concern came from the lead sector that this 10% stress on calculating was being placed on the surface surface of high - price fishing costs. We got specialists from the Ministry to review this, and I'm sure that this is no change from what has been made in the past or the approach to the fishing fee to these two objects, the cryo-continents and the marine sector. But I think it's important and will follow that this will be examined based on experience and we'll have to try to get absolutely clear that both sides of the city are paying for real survival in real time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u22	Mr. President. In this case, taken by hand from the Commission in opposition to the lesser part that requested to discuss the modification proposal of the majority of the case with the relevant stakes. No, more than a part of the job committee arranged in and took the case out, despite their wish. [[Up front.]] I guess it's true, and it's documented. Five men took it out. A book had been asked to talk to stakeholders about the changes made by the greater part. Yet, the case was taken out. Before that, the matter was not in the government's consultations. They're trying to fly this under the radar. And now the majority of the council members respond to the chairman of the Committee and take the right of the rest of us in order to have a critical discussion at the conference with the head of the Committee after all. [[Up front.]] This is not a good practice.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u23	Mr. President. I want to agree with this. What kind of work are these? What kind of message is this from the administrative part of cooperation and cooperation, whether in the committee or in the conference halls? The case is torn apart on the job committee, and then when the Chairman moves the changes here and the committees in their opinion, the board of directors responds. [[Take it up: A scandal.]] It's a clear, clear message from the top of the board - about what? - About cohesion? Is that a song of reconciliation? I just don't have a word about this attitude.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u24	Mr. President. I want to agree with this. This is incredibly strange. In this important matter, it is also important to ask the chairman of much of the rest of the section, in particular the administration, as is customary in big and big matters. Not unless you're hiding something, not unless you want to avoid unpleasant questions that are not answered, as was previously in my case. There was no answer. What are they afraid of? Why must not e.g. Is there a chance that a member of the board on the board could come up with an issue of the Committee's high credits and ask simple questions? Once again, I ask, "What are they afraid of? " It's an unacceptable way to work. I point out that there was a steady delay over the discussion of the ocean's surface. Nothing has been done to try to communicate with normal voices. We'll review our suggestions afterwards. But I don't think this is an acceptable procedure, and this is not a good subject for discussion on this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u25	Mr. President. I come up here to describe a surprising memory of these tactics, i.e. that answers are not really new to discuss the matter but that the members of the management board are listed here. But I have a full understanding of that, that's not it. I am a relatively new senator myself. Rafney No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I can see that Lilja was happy that only the board of directors would ask you here. [[The point is, I agree.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u26	Mr. President. This much of the work may not be particularly surprising. This case has been run through at a high speed without any consultation. The chairman of the Committee could not answer one question raised directly from the memory of the section. It may not be strange that the greater part has decided to confront the chairman in order not to have any further embarrassing events there. But this is a sign of one thing: It is simply one thing that is ashamed of the clear priorities presented in this matter. Here we are dealing with emergency redundancy for the project to reduce the cost of hunting by 4 billion. There are older civilians and poor people who pay the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u27	President. Here comes the head of the trade board and makes some nonsense about the change in the memory of the part. Instead of our opposition to the government, we will face up to the issue and possibly address this stupid order of government forces. What are we here for if the government situation is not to be given the opportunity to have such an important case with the chairman of the Committee?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u28	A respectable president. Today, there is an abundance of language that is known in many councils, and many believe it to be democratic, so to speak. One very clear characteristic of speech is when political paraphernalia surfaces and accept that language while it is. You can always see it when you're in the language. I must say in a certain way that the government groups decided to start speaking in their own language immediately after the first talk of the cover 2nd. What else is there to this besides taking the time of the council into things that are not reason enough to take the time of the council? If a filibuster is what a man wants, they can have it. I'm pretty sure if there's any interest in that, there's a good list here in the audience at that end.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u29	A respectable president. Interestingly, the representative of the new politics is still interesting. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek, standing here, declaring that all people can do is talk. A filibuster is hard to detect. I think it's only natural for a case of this magnitude to get a considerable discussion here at the Hall, since I thought we were starting that discussion. One speech is over, probably one of a considerable number. I'll think about it. In this discussion, the government has many opportunities to ask us directors into the bill, to declare their opinion, to review their new proposals. A respectable president. I would like to object to the words here that this case had been torn out of violence and should be surprised. A professional health committee. It was discussed at a meeting of presidents of Congress on Monday that the matter would be arranged on Tuesday. This made it clear to the entire assembly that it would be scheduled for the week. [[The president calls.]] So it was for everyone. The Senate saw that the matter would be resolved. [[Foreground on: No.]] Then members of Congress have simply not presented them with messages.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u30	A respectable president. It's a bit of a peculiar thing to do. Of course, when the administrative issue has such a bad conscience, he tries to get his people to respond in an effort to strengthen one another. It's a little strange to see here a seafaring minister whispering in the ears of the head of the pro board how things should be, but that's how this new life's supposed to be right here at the council. However, I notice that there is something special about these answers to be blocked with such comments on matters like this. It's kind of like they're applauseing the people for doing their job reasonably, by their fellow members in the government. We'll just go back to this discussion and take it easy and good. But I think we should see if we need to adjust some of the arrangements for the answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u31	A respectable president. It is remarkable to see that the chairman of the Central Party objects to talking and arguing about things. Admittedly, it is much easier to consult a president at what point. A professional committee, but the chairman of the council, even though it would be only for the chairman of the council to be brushed and harder to bow to. Just so things are clear. I'd like to mention that when people talk about short notices and that the case is torn out of the commission that it was announced in spring that a bill would be introduced to new fishing fees in the fall. I returned my case to the pro committee two months ago. The Congress has been on this case for two months. This may seem to be a short time. I would point out that bigger things than this have been done in a magically shorter and much shorter time than the above.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u32	A respectable president. I just want less of it. It's up to those in charge, especially right now. The members of the Independence Party, that when they are found new ways of conducting a program or discussing it, people remember it altogether. I'm going to speak specifically of the 2012 budget when the Independence Party was in a position of government. Then there was a way to influence a program that would have a longer effect on the future. Now we've finished 2nd. Well, fortunately, the budget. I just want to remind you that once there are some new tools to manage the discussion, it's remembered, unfortunately. So I can't wait to hear you talking from what you're talking about. The members of the Independence Party on the Respect of the Generals when it comes to this, there are inventions like those we're probably seeing here, and especially what we saw in 2012 in the budget. It is a matter of time before visitors appear before the committee. In fact, the matter was taken out of the committee. [[The president calls.]] There was a disagreement. This seems to me to be facts that no one disagrees about. This is to be enough to make people complain that they will not be given the opportunity to talk to each other. The chairman of the Commission answers. [[The president calls.]] It's not that complicated.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u33	A respectable president. I must say that these comments in my comments are the most indiscreet comments I have been hearing from this chair for a long time. [[Up front.]] The fact that representatives here at the General Assembly want to ask the head of the employment committee here in the General's symposium on a few points in a matter they are about to vote for, which will go to the General Records as Parliaments and part of the reviews - that is because the chairman of the debate. The pro board is afraid. What kind of compromise is this? What? I don't understand those irrefutable remarks. I'd like to point out that neither of the members of the board who asked why. paritaprevir This is Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir on a pro board. Both of them are interested in this matter and have questions before they vote for it. It is thought to be the fears of the head of the professional trade committee. What kind of rudeness is this? [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u34	Mr. President. I'll give you my word, because there's no danger but that I'll come back in a talk, and then I trust that everyone who wants to talk to me will come in answer, and I'll just have as many speeches as I need to meet. Senators can ask me some questions. That's more than welcome. I'm not afraid of that, because I have such a good conscience in this matter. I know they are. People on a professional committee know that this case has been handled very well for two months at the Committee with 11 meetings with 25 agents, and a number of people came from some sources. There's been over 100 visitors. It was reported on a week's notice when the situation would be resolved. There were no wishes for the extra guests, had been met by the full list, and reviewed all the reviews, and it was the time to get visitors like SFS and LS on Thursday, yesterday. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So I have a good conscience, and I'm sorry that the government's problem is this way in the morning.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u35	Mr. President. The government today has a covenant for how they want to behave. Many of these are interesting and exemplary. I would like to encourage those in charge to read a few sentences from the Constitution, e.g. This: In addition to improving communication, any planned development plans for the future need to be done. Now one of the things I would have thought would fit into this category. Then, too, with the permission of the president: It is the will of the classes that are now involved in government cooperation and the promotion of the Generals to approach new projects in the interests of the public of the country... I think it would also be nice to read that sentence again and maybe behave in a better way, such as. Those two sentences I read. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u36	A respectable president. In a new way -- there's clearly a little new in here, since the government's members make unprepared queries and in addition to the majority council members. I don't remember the many times it happened, at least not in the background. There's a certain role division here where the smaller part is in the surveillance role rather than members of the greater part. We know that. Of course, members of the United States are just bound to their own conviction of doing and doing well with that. But there is a tradition that is breaking down in this case that has not happened before, as noted earlier. Only more from the Government Treaty: In addition, the government groups want to push a number of projects into the country and a nation with a cross - political approach, ensuring that the wide range of knowledge and experience that the Parliament has gained in behalf of the country and the nation, regardless of what groups appoints government and government positions at any given time. It doesn't sound like it's in this spirit, and I just have to get it to.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u37	A respectable president. I'll admit that I've probably ever been at the council when I've been involved in asking my fellow soldiers about something that I thought could be explained. The prince's point of reply is not that it is completely excluded that it can be applied. In this case it was obvious, however, that there was sufficient interest in the representatives of the smaller section here to inquire of the first member of the Committee's opinion, and it would have only been more useful in a democratic discussion if we had been able to use the minutes in which we could have been able to get the difference between opposing views. Rather than give up a set ball that committee writers used to whip down to the floor with the results we saw here. So the prince's hand is completely there. But I think it's a better use of the answers that if you're interested, the opposite of the viewpoint is not the same.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u38	V.E.G. President. I recommend the Committee to conduct a bill on fishing fees from the 1st small part of the employment board. The first minor item clearly emphasizes that in reevaluation of fishing fees the survival of small and medium-sized enterprises in the seas, many of which have had difficulty dealing with the worsening conditions of business management. A smaller portion of 1st is to be endeavored to further link the currency to recovery so that a step-by-step discount will be provided that is preferably due to small and medium-sized marine resources. The first part of the memory suggests that the available prime minister does not take enough into account the above and declares disappointments. This is true of others, for reviews show that criticism of how hard the fishing cost is on the above - listed companies. It has been noted on the committee's case that in addition to the worsening of the current situation, the fishing rate is severed by small boats. A smaller portion thinks that hook - bearing boats and boats less than 30 grosstons should be subject to laws other than larger designs, as there are much lower outputs depending on the degree of expression. It was pointed out in the treatment of the problem that hook-up could not use the most efficient and most suitable fishing instruments. Thus, it is more expensive for hookmaking to catch each kilogram of a catch than for making a crop -mark system that can cope with new circumstances by switching fishing instruments and thus reducing the cost of fishing. The first smaller section suggests improvement in the price of the fishing formula will be based on data that are closer to time and that the calculation will be somewhat simplified. The price will thus take into account the position of the article when it is laid down. Also, 1st small section feels that the change in the majority of the committee's budget is a step in the right direction; yet, it works primarily for the best. The average fishing project, according to information given to many committees in the northwestern district, still remains with massive fishing costs and heavy business. In terms of the majority change, it is also recommended to use stocks with less value value than 100 billion. K. In a year on the average of the three - year - olds, the root of a fishing fee would not be set. A smaller portion thinks that this amount could have been higher than that it is a step in the right direction for the law to be done. The aim of a law on the control of fishing is 1st. e.g. ... tosureefficiencyandlivedintheland. A lower share of the opinion that the bill of the sea transport and agricultural ministers is at odds with that objective. A smaller section points out that smaller enterprises are mainly located in the region. Seafood is the nation's key work site, and in many settlements, it is a platform and a basic construction site. Many people place their confidence in the stability of their business in the fishing business and are concerned that recent development had to be put together by high fishing costs. The funds used to cover hunting costs will not be used elsewhere, such as building up, necessary investments, and restoration of local companies and local community. A smaller section 1 shows that in a discussion of the case, many people have found that the government's income in part of the fishing cost is subsidized and that it takes less than one thing to consider how it's going to work. In the management of the case, it was reported that the income of the marine export companies involved in the use of the building site was substantially reduced between 2016 and 2017. In harmony with Iceland's Habitat figures, the export value of sea products during the same period dropped by more than 15%. Signed points out that he is the 1st member of the Parliament, which is related to the subject of the bill. On the one hand, there is a conclusion on the definition of resources of the 55th case, and on the other hand, a conclusion on resource resources and resource costs is given in 35 cases. Seafood is less than one industry that uses the resources of the country, but it is the only industry that pays for that special tax. Therefore, it is a matter of justice and fairness to shape a general resource policy and how to use it. The fact that one industry has a special tax system for resource use is an example of discrimination between sectors that should be easily corrected. The methodology used in the calculation of fishing fees, resource bills, is complicated and unfair to its objectors. If the government's decision is to use resources, it is better to use simpler, more transparent methods for calculating, e.g. to put into practice the tax pay that companies already pay. The first smaller portion of the bill feels that fishing costs are not moderate and that the bill ensures super taxation in place. So many were words. I'd like to say, " I'm going to say, " What's wrong with you? ' paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson before what? The head of the procrastinator on the question of dividing the cost according to category of projection and thus calculating it. This is what I have talked about on the committee and with many of the guests who attended the committee. The chairman did not respond directly, but this is what is really the greatest dissatisfaction in this system. It is so different how each group works out and what its produce is. It's all calculated from one excel-aid or something, swept together into one number, and then everyone evenly. I've sometimes said it's like if we took all Icelanders' income stock together and split it down evenly. This is not a fair method. The changes that have been made are steps in the right direction, and I really have nothing more to say about that. This is not without blemish at all; but it is as all the works of men: they are not without blemish.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u39	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for history. I know that he has the best interests of small and medium-sized productions, and he is concerned about the difficult conditions that have been in the past years as well as with compression. I would like to ask, though, if he doesn't think that this bill as such is so, since human life reaches its full value in 2020, according to the calculations below, will be sensitive to changing resources. Like what? A senator knows that I requested information on the Committee, at her work, from the Habitat, to analyze the survival of a set-up. There was an analysis of the survival of groups between 10 and 30 tons, which proved to be very similar to total. I checked it out with more people. The conclusion was that by the end of the vacation market, funding would be most useful to them. That would benefit everyone, however, because the average payoff target is being increased from what is now about 60%. That's not what we're talking about. Everybody gets it. The next year, the average of each species is taken and the provisional bill is fixed to pay, meaning that, like the cod, which had come up for a cost of 23 k., goes down by 13 k., which is a 40% reduction. [[The president calls.]] Counts 'em out. Don't you think a senator here has come to meet a pretty good deal with a company that is having trouble?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u40	V.E.G. President. As I said earlier, I agree that this is a step in the right direction, and it is being met by the fishing parties. However, as I pointed out and mentioned in the talk, when it needs to be in such a system, as I have said, patches like freaks and discounts, it just tells me that it's a faulty system. This leads to one conclusion, but because it is so badly affected by some fishing group, we need to give them a special discount. That's why I would've wanted it to be completely replaced by making divisions. But after that, there was nothing. A senator mentioned numbers from the Haggis said that it's not going to be so much, but I'm not so convinced of it if there's more glasses in it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u41	Mr. President. We have little other than information from Haust in that subject. Hv. A senator has no suggestion to do anything more than what is available. I'd like to hear what it's like. A senator feels that what has been said about the will of action. Councilmen with a change of motion to continue their bill next year, which would likely translate 12.5 billion for survival two and a half years ago. How does he feel about the idea of a change in an existing proposal to go to an auction and, after 20 years, all resources in Iceland will be offered? How does he think it will benefit small and medium-sized companies to take the offer that is available as a change in fishing costs?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u42	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the record. No, I didn't bring a change proposal, or we were in my company. I concluded that this was a step in the right direction, so I didn't make any adjustments. For extending this past New Year's Eve and moving on with a single fishing bill into next year, I certainly don't like it. That would be a big increase in the next year, and then we don't know anything about it, perhaps a reduction in the year due to a strategy at 2017. I think it's a step in moving this into time and taking out the fish industry and bringing it into the governor's office. The drop'll break the stone in it like the rest of it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u43	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the reasonable, reasonable speech and language of this matter. I'd like to ask you a little about this transition to make-up parties. Now we've got a what? A senator and other members of his party were talking a little about this, small and medium-sized structures and groups apart. What's medium-sized? What is small and medium - sized design, and what are the larger designs? How are we going to divide this up? Hv. A senator also spoke of being here, not for moderate fees, but inordinately - too high yet, if I understood him correctly. I can agree with him. Does this mean that he refers to all these fishing classes they are talking about, or is it moderate in appearance to one of the types they are today?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u44	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. When you talk about fishing, there can be four or six of them, or I don't know what. Strategists, ice-fishers, ocean-fishing ships, snowboats, prize boats, and then tyrannauts. That's the approach we're talking about. The bill is 33% of the increase, and it is the food of men, of those to whom I speak, that it is too high. I can't tell you if it's fair to a certain class. But we know who will benefit best in this article. It's no secret.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u45	A respectable president. Yeah, I might have it a little clearer then. Counts 'em out. A senator that it is someone, as if he were exaggerating at the end, in the big shot paying normal fishing fees compared with what is being suggested here? Is this not excessive for everyone? Where does he classify the great things? Who are the people who are considered major producers, not the little and mediums, all of whom are talking about? What is the boundary between the medium and the size of the structure? Don't you think it's possible that the fishing costs are too high on some outlaw today?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u46	V.E.G. President. So I'll answer it with mediums and smalls and larges, maybe now it's a little bit off. They may be talking about 3,000,5,000 tons of salad. There is a limit, somewhere in that period. Many of the projects that have been produced in smaller places are in that period and have been in much trouble. I don't take the idea that some modeling company pays too little for it. The bill is, in all counts, too high, and that's my opinion. I've got a lot of respect for the big-ass thing, so they say. She is doing very well, but she too is in a rural setting that enables them to buy up the smaller ones when they struggle. [[The president calls.]] And that's what I'm worried about.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u47	Mr. President. Thank you, HV.. A senator for the speech. We both sit on a professional committee, and it's obvious that the senator has a keen interest in fishing and he has been working with him for a long time, fishing. Now I've watched one item that's the extent to which you carry from the country an unmanned fish, mainly in the containers. This year, however, there seems to be a huge increase in the number of unscheduled fish carrying containers from the country. It is about to travel from 35,000,36,000 tons to 46,000,48,000 tons today in the course of the year. Although we have the expected highest-tech fishing road and the global fishing process today, at least At the top of our good technology and the companies that produce high - tech equipment in the fishing road seem to be becoming quite rapid. It's being exported more and more of an unscheduled fish, ef the HV. A senator might come into it a little bit. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'll get into this better on the next question.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u48	V.E.G. President. Illegal exports and exports of unmanned fish have been of many and basically just everybody's eye color. But this is something that can't really be banned. Rather, it needs to be examined more carefully, to see the advantage of working the fish in this country rather than moving it into a container. Of course, the increase in fish products is in the process. The government should work to see the advantage of winning the fish in this country rather than moving it out or selling it at the price they accept here at home rather than in the scurrying, which is usually at a better price. Usually, not always, so they say.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u49	Mr. President. What appears to be happening is that commercial fishing is getting into trouble. It is in a competitive position, for example. Such countries as Poland, Lithuania, Latvia Many fish with containers are being transported to the Baltic Sea for further development. Our most powerful high-tech operations seem to be losing our competitiveness in the processing process in those months. I agree with what. A senator to see that fishing is a major source of valuables. Men are moving, e.g. More into the country of cryoprecipitators into ice-funds and more work inside the houses in recent years and rely on a little competitiveness through this high-tech, but now it seems to be becoming a switch. I'm asking if the senator agrees with that view of competitiveness. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u50	V.E.G. President. Yes, I agree with that. I have to admit that I haven't watched this trend in the smut export last year, but I know that why. A senator is a very observant man, so I know he's right. As noted, we do not sit at the table and make up elsewhere on fishing and carbon costs and so on. The cost of making is much more in this house for that. However, this is a concern, and it needs to be examined to get the most worth of all in fishing by fishing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u51	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his story. I may not share all the views it presented, but we were contacted by a local representative, and there were some. It was quite clear that the red thread was strongly suggested that the fishing fee should somehow flow back to the settlement. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the council whether he shares in my vision of restoration and other classes in that the fishing fee should flow back into the areas where the sea route has been building. We have seen certain consequences of this, necessary in part, practical fishing and processing; work has declined, but the idea is that there will be a fund of infrastructure. Shared. A senator in the vision that the charges should be paid for building up in the areas where they have actually come from?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u52	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this question. Yes, I do, and it was in my case in the Commission opinion that part of the fishing fee should run to a country partner. A lot was discussed when these laws were put on, but somehow it didn't quite work out. It is taken up by the government laws on government finance. It's a complicated phase. The law is the work of men, and I think it should be changed. None of the people I've talked to, and I can agree with that myself, are opposed to paying hunting fees, and if part of it were part of the country to be a part of them, they would be happy to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u53	Mr. President. I think it's very important that we try to think the same thing. I'm glad people aren't talking against making a price for fishing. To me, this is a prince's case, this is access to the nation's common resource, and there is a requirement to attach a resource directive to its constitution. But it is important to try to think about this, as I say, in the same way as the oil reserve, now or a fund in Norway associated with the fish fire. There the fund goes back to 80% of the areas where the fish fire has been built. We're supposed to do this. We're supposed to cooperate with our communities. They appreciate it in ways that are different from those of us who are present at the council what is needed for building up in the area. Some people want to go into promoting tourism. Some want to promote innovation and evolution. We must face the fact that technology increases the cost of fishing and production as we see the decline in jobs. Thus, rural communities need some room to go to other structures that they consider important for their territory.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u54	V.E.G. President. I agree with this and I want to remind the senator - and clearly she has not listened much to my speech - that I specifically mentioned in my speech that I have recommended the definition of resources and resources and resource expenditures here. [[With attention.]] It's quite remarkable that we don't have that job yet. These matters have been spoken for many times. I agree with the senator that local communities should be allowed to do this work better. This is a prince's case in the structure of the country, that it may come to them again, and that we shall be gathered together, working on this matter as one.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u55	Mr. President. I represent the opinion of the 2nd minor part of the employment committee. As we have seen, the bill of a seafarer to legalize fishing fees will include a new total fishing bill and will replace current legislation since 2012. It is suggested in the bill that the calculus of each year's fishing bill will be determined at the end of each year for the next year's year's year, instead of being determined in August before the coming fishing year. Then the fishing committee's work is largely taken to the government tax manager's office. For a long time, it has been debated about the fishing costs and the pressures of the Icelandic community and has been quite critical of the current legislation... - Mr. President. Could I have peace in the hall?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u56	The president prays for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u57	...especially for supporting old data and not collecting it during real time. Some features of this bill, such as bringing the collection process all in time, can be said to improve the current arrangement. A well - thought - out section of the bill, however, is considered to be hard work and omnipresent, its impact on the collected fishing fees is not fully understood, along with the development of the bill in a swampy form. Another minority reminds us that the nation is united that its resources will be in the permanent possession of the common people. That's all that matters. The National Convention on the New Constitution of the Icelandic Republic confirmed the people's will, and we in part contend in part 2 of the Committee that we agreed to this bill will increase the share of the resource production at the cost of the nation's income. The available bill is not designed to increase the awareness of the rights and responsibilities of the arrangement, nor does it diminish the uncertainty of the prospects of this basic work of the nation. Another lower part of criticism that there was no time to prepare the bill to investigate other advantages sufficiently. Similarly, there is a big problem that has not been given the time to go through what the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter has done through a so - called consultation puzzle. Is this particularly negative regarding how many serious comments were made in the reviews on the subject to the Committee? Similarly, the government had no consultation with the bill to stand up for government and showed no effort to reconcile on this fundamental part of the nation that needs stability, such as the entire Icelandic community. The available bill proposals are also in the opposite direction to the stated target of 2012's legislation on hunting costs aimed at increasing the nation's share from the resources of the resource, but not the reverse as this is done. Most of the reports received by the Committee are particularly concerned about the impact that the bill may have on sailors'wages because of the mismanagement of marine resources in integrated outputs and inconsistencies of nonprofiles and fish productions. Serious comments on this, e.g. From the Contestant Commission, which said in his review, by permission of the President: However, unchanged laws provided by the current bill will lead to discrimination in the calculation of the fish markets in the integrated outputs and other sources. In view of the above, the Contestance Commission wants to direct them to the employment committee to respond to the misdemeaning shown in the publication of the bill processing procedure before it becomes legal. A greater proportion of the workaholics believe that the government tax manager's resources are sufficient to identify agglutination and therefore do not have to respond to this. A lower portion of the section rejects this argument and underscoring concern of the Contestant watch, thinking that there is a significant need for a greater degree of transparency between prices to prevent such an error. The obvious way to deal with the problem would be to take some form of marketing, such as by offering outs on markets, a path recommended by 2 smaller things. Clearly, though, there is not much more in the Council, so there is another way to go. For example, a compromise might be considered to calculate 20% of the market prices and look at rent prices on that subject as compared to 80% according to the way suggested in an existing bill. Another lower part is puzzled by the stated target of the bill on equality and the exchange of employment markets as a reason not to weigh the profits of fish farming on the decision of fishing costs. The bill's report, with permission from the President: ▪ Landing demand has generally been more important than women's hand. Then, in recent years, women have been far more visible in fishing. It is noted that using a bill this is not suggested to include marine growth as part of the calculus of a hunting fee that, according to this, would be involved in the work of women rather than of men. We believe, in a mild way, that this is a very misleading presentation, since fishing has never paid the price. Actually, I'd like to add to the fact that I'm kind of embarrassed that it was permitted to stand in the bill, to use the compromise of the struggle in this way. However, the cost of fishing has been weighed down. That was even. to avoid developing incentives for the development companies to shift profits into the process and thus affect the reduction of hunting costs, such as rumors received. In the existing bill, it has disappeared and then put in real incentive for the productions that have the opportunity to increase profits in the processing process. This change, therefore, will include both lower fishing costs and lower wages for sailors, as most sources of the case specifically warned. Clearly, the bill still contains factors that would have been desirable in giving more time to meditate. It is particularly unfortunate to request a report on the surveillance of the Fish House, which began in February of this year, and the report will be available in mid December. The report will deal with the operation of the Fish Room and its monitoring of the scale of fish trades during the last five years. At the same time, she's going to take out a fishing room's checkup with the assembly of fishing warrants. Clearly, the results of the report can be relevant to the subject of the bill. Comments on the report also support the importance of the report results before further changes in the pressures of hunting costs. In view of this situation, it would normally be best to give the Ministry and the Employment Committee a better time to work the case and instead extend existing legislation for a year. Since the publication of the European Committee of Resources in the year 2000, it has been repeatedly confirmed that a greater part of the nation wants the possession of the nation of fish resources in Icelandic jurisdiction to be established in its constitution and that the supply rights is temporary. This is also the arrangement that most neighboring countries have used when they have adopted a greeting system, such as Denmark and Sweden. At the same time as temporary rights of innovation confirm their country's ownership, time binding can ensure greater stability and awareness of its structure. No longer will there be any question as to whether there is a legal uncertainty about the permanence of the Neos rights or the nation's ownership of their resources. In view of this, it is the obvious interests of society and the making of time for all fishing rights. In terms of less than 2 parts, there is strong evidence that resource expenditures, such as fishing fees, run into a special fund rather than a government fund, as suggested in the existing bill. When this kind of payment goes into the state's budget, there is a danger that government patience to the fluctuations that consistently represent such costs will be very limited and that the tendency is to alter the fee's fees when it comes to meeting income goals. Such a tendency undermines the price. The fact that the methodology and pressures of hunting costs in this country have been changed four times over the past ten years suggests that this is a problem of concern. In order to counteract such a temptation, resource expenditures in other countries usually come from a special fund. One of the best - known examples of such a treasure is the Norwegian oil reserve. A lower share of the opinion that rural society will receive part of the economy created by the fish - fishing system as an improvement for the share of the cost of economics that society needs to bear. Other rural areas are also allowed to share in the interest of the resource owned by the whole country. However, it might be viewed as a possibility that land parish programmes could be a channel for the projects that would be funded by a fishing fee. Mr. President. There are many things to consider and important to be effective when making a full reimbursement of the national budget for use as the government announced the presence of a forced reduction in hunting costs at the end of Congress last spring. Then the management board discussed the importance of consultation and reconciliation with such reviews, but unfortunately it is not intended to have an existing bill and were not tested to consult with the government opposition, either in preparation of the Ministry or in a conversation on the job board. Hence, it is an assessment of a lower portion of the bill as it is currently not available for payment; it is completely unclear what its approval will be to the State Fund and to the whole sector. Besides the obvious fact that the state's budget will be 4 billion dollars high. ... nextyear, the bill will turn into law. Such priorities, in view of the less than 2 less, are completely unacceptable while older ones and disability are left waiting for righteous folds. Under this reference work, the article "Aggressively. " Councilmen Elíasdóttir Frinífjörg Elisdóttir and Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Ævarsdotir. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir, who is meeting the Committee as an officer, is also acceptable to this opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u58	A respectable president. Last week, the Conspiracy introduced changes to the budget, 17 changes that were due to cost 24 billion dollars. Among inefficient revenues, the category calculated by raising the fishing costs. There is now a suggestion that the fishing fee should come primarily in support of the management and monitoring of the fishing system, that is 5 billion bucks, but the rest should go to the building up. Then I must ask, because the rest of the hunting fee is expected to go to a building fund rather than to the proposals recommended by the Conspiracy last week: How has the Conspiracy thought to meet the impact on the budget or in the management of the state on the basis of the proposals presented here to reduce contribution to the social, health, or otherwise in the process of building up funds?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u59	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Kristján Þór Júlíusson for a very good question. I'm glad he's worried that we in the United States have not financed our proposals. First of all, in our changes in the tax system and funding, we proclaimed changes but not only did we talk about the resource costs of the marine industry but we also looked at other resources. I am very happy that I have the highest. Ministers are worried about this, but I'm not worried. Not only were our suggestions made but we also made plans for the rest. There's a lot of work to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u60	A respectable president. In itself, I have no concern about people's joy over this. It's just a question of how to make the suggestion presented here. There is, in fact, one suggestion of these four in the direction of the changes directly involved in the hunting fee, and you must call for the thought and the application of it. It is only natural to be called by the way the effects of this have come. Then, just the question remains: Have the financial factors been submitted to the preparation of this case on the part of the administrative committee? And if that is the case, if any assessment has been made of the financial impact of this proposal for an individual enterprise or settlement in the country, it would be very interesting to hear it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u61	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister again for the inquiry. Of course, what we're talking about in the deliberation proposal is not that hunting costs are not to be collected anymore but that of extending the current law. It's a postponement. We're trying to make an effort to get a conversation, get a talk. I understand the highest. A minister does not understand it, for despite the announcement, it did not take much time for consultation to prepare this bill. In this context, I also want to ask: " Is it the highest? Ministers really against that -- Yes, that's right, sorry. [[Up front.]] But I still don't believe it. In fact, the government groups have all spoken of the previous fishing costs and the rest of them going to the settlements. But, yes, thank you for the answer. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u62	Mr. President. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the council is merely going through the ideas that are toyed and indeveloped in order to provide part of the resources for the next 20 years. There is no such thing in the opinion of the committee, but why. A senator must support his chairman in that concept. [[Up front.]] There is no mention of 5.3% of today's social and social activities. There's no mention of that. Should this action be completely discarded? Is this where the basis is? Where is the Conspiracy in that matter? Now, when we discussed this case, I introduced to a professional employment committee that might be considered for some way to extend the fishing fee or to support the cost for small and medium-sized productions. But I never realized what. A senator or those who made this adjustment would have no ideas. So talking about consultation, I haven't seen it on their part on the job board.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u63	Mr. President. I want to thank you. The head of the pro board for giving me the opportunity to correct the misunderstanding that seems to be in the Senate Hall, i.e. That we're setting out here for an auction. We are not doing so, and we thought that by this suggestion we would be extending an act of reconciliation, especially to the left greens and more councils. In a similar way, because of the groundwork, the groundwaters were naturally left out there. I think I've shown it, both in previous speeches and in my activities at the council, that I have the best interests of the communities, and I'm sorry for a hearing here in this chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u64	Mr. President. I have no doubt. A senator has the best interests of the locals. That is why you are surprised to learn that such a bad practice is under control. It is said of the greater part that there is no consultation, there is transparency, and there is need to be more, but then you can measure for the complete change in the fishing system and throw into the discussion at the last minute without any consultation with one or anyone, not to mention it on a professional committee that it was looking at one or anything about changes in this case, coming in at the last minute, unprepared, a proposal that does not hold any opinion. In this process, however, the decision was made to make. A senator, Logi Einar Einarsson, and others, presidents, Pirata, Convergence, and Reconvergence, shows no concept of community affairs, nothing. [[The president calls.]] It's a strange after-a-go at what's happened. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u65	Mr. President. I thank -- or no, not really. I think it's clear that there's a problem. A senator misunderstands our suggestions. We have the very suggestions to include members of the council, and especially members of the council of the left green, in effect, their own proposals for temporary negotiations. We're not talking about auctioness or markets at all. We're talking about temporary negotiations and the fund of the land, that the fishing costs run to the parts of the country. I think it's perfectly clear that unfortunately there's some misunderstanding here about our proposals, and I suggest that men read them. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u66	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator foreclosure on behalf of 2nd smaller objects. I'm going to say first that I think that the more part has done a very good job, a number of careful comments are available, and visitors have set up meeting with the Committee. V.E.G. A minister traveled far and wide throughout the country presenting proposed suggestions and bill. That's the best I could hear in a case. A senator who agrees to collect fishing fees in a way that is suggested by the greater part of the section and to bring the collection to the governor of the tax. At the same time, he says that it is omnipresent and dependent on uncertainty. Offspring is going to swing, and it's dependent on aggressiveness, and ablation, that's right. Is it not, though, of importance, then, to reimburse the collection of fish fees, as suggested here, with reasonable changes, especially for the job?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u67	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson for his excellent inquiry. I agree that the changes in the bill are certainly better in that so that it's closer to time. In fact, I believe in the office of the governor of the tax, that they can do a good job. However, they had questions, and they acknowledged that there was no guarantee of this by means of the covert. That was what was criticized over and over in the reviews, that lack of transparency. As I entered my talk earlier, I believe that there is not enough work to do to meet those comments. I'll even wake up there. Again, attention to the review of the Contestant Commission, which was in accordance with a great many reviews.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u68	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I'm glad that you did. A senator agrees that increasing the effectiveness of the collection is being achieved. Of course, we have complete trust in the governor to collect. The survival rate, as the majority suggest --what. A senator agrees with her, but here he brings out the cover-up. The government tax manager has completely improved to handle these factors, and I trust the governor to do so completely. I'm glad that you did. So does a senator. I find it difficult to understand what is presented in a talk. A senator who turns to the fishing fees to run into a resource fund. I'm in the same tracks as the highest. There was a minister over here because of the prospect of not leaving seniors and disability behind. Where are people going to get money, as suggested in a discussion about budgets, in a huge bonus if all of this is to run into a special fund and stay in it? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u69	Mr. President. I want to thank you again. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson for a good and interesting question. Although we trust the head of the state tax and well -- ended up an office that has been chosen more than once as role models - it is still true that the government tax manager does not accept that it is always first and last the politics to decide the recovery. It's always the politics that had your fingers in it, and that's what always causes the problem. Whether the government tax manager or someone else calculates this does not change it. Therefore, I think other routes would be more transparent in this respect.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u70	A respectable president. I'm obviously a simpler man, but I thought that I was having a really bad time to get out what the smaller part means, both in its members, in words here, and in the same way as making a change. That's why I just want a clear answer, preferably a yes or a no. That's what I'm talking about. A senator against the eviction of hunting fees?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u71	Mr. President. [[Up front.]] I want to thank you. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér for the question. He threw me so out of shape earlier with that frontal call, it sort of got me what the question was. But in short... [[Recontraction.]] No, but we don't want to go anywhere else than this. The problem is, it's natural that politics always have their fingers in it. If this were increased e.g. auction or take into account market prices, there would be increased transparency in the intermediate cover, in which politics would need e.g. not talking about it as much as we do. We're poor as others, and I think it would be normal for the market to handle it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u72	A respectable president. I'm dumber than a lot of people. It's good to get something straight. A senator is in favor of a hunting fee. That's why I want to ask him why. A senator, because I know she's a reasonable person, and she has a high opinion of what to do. A senator: Does she feel that it is reasonable to always be talking about that more part of the bill and the highest bill? A seafaring minister is getting less money because he's always watching next year? Here we are putting on a system that is supposed to work for the future. It has been found by the Committee that if this system was near the population in 2020, there would be 2.5 billion fishing costs. In the same way, I could say, "We're adding a bounty to it, but I'm not an unreasonable man. " That's why I'm watching that here we have an exit connection. That is why the fishing rate is swinging in the direction of the development of the project. That is why it is quite presumptuous to always be talking about lowering the price of hunting. I don't know. According to a senator, if the method suggested here had been used for the past ten years, the state's budget would have been 500 billion. More fishing than did. This would have increased the fishing costs in the last decade by a billion dollars, much less. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-23-37.u73	Mr. President. This is simply wrong in the case of Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttar's son Proppé. The fishing costs are actually being lowered. Senators just have to face their own bill. It's their decision to lower the fishing costs with the bill. We feel that our main stake is to protect the population of the fish that is in the sea. There's nothing more complicated than that.
