ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u1	Mr. President. I'm sorry, there's nothing new about training in Iceland. This morning a statement on the Ministry of State has been made that this time in October and November, military training is being carried out on the land and on Norway. Iceland is involved in this military exercise, including Because we are members of NATO. To me, there's nothing positive about military exercises. They're after all, no matter how they try to introduce them, exercise in how to take over and kill people. It is simply wrong in my view, and I want us to resolve international issues. We in VG feel that Iceland would be better off outside NATO, but unfortunately, we have had a minority view of this matter. I'd like to say, however, that I feel positive about how detailed this morning's press release was on the State Department site, and I hope it will become a community debate about what military exercises are, what they are, why we're participating in them. This will help to increase the debate in New York City on warfare and military law and at the same time the discussion on why Iceland should be in NATO and why we should resign from it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u2	A respectable president. I'm gonna let myself cut down on the same knees as that. A senator who spoke before me, Steinunn Þóra of the Year's Árnadóttir. In my opinion, we have become part of a military alliance. That has become a fact to many of us. The people have never been allowed to express their feelings about this. We take it as a matter of fact, that little Iceland, with the position of being a lead in peace issues against warfare and speaking the voice of peace seekers, human rights, is a person for some military alliance, and we're kind of off thinking about it. [[Up front.]] It's like rain after the sun's day, and we don't even think about it anymore. I call for a careful discussion on that subject. Although we have had an excellent conversation about it during our last assembly, they are rarely discussed in the community and even less. What does it mean to be in a military alliance? Why are we in a military alliance? Why should we be in a military alliance? Why are we in an alliance that involves warfare in other countries, and what does warfare mean? That means people are killed. Is that something we're sitting in here, are we ready to be on the side? Some are, it's fine. I'm not. This is a conversation deserves by the Icelandic nation, and we owe it to them after all the years of the Atlantic Alliance and how it was established. I support that we will discuss the issues and hope that more groups than the left movement have a green policy that Iceland should be out of military alliances.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u3	Mr. President. Yesterday, an proposal was made for a synopsis of eight members of the left movement for the formation of a consulting room for immigrants. I was shocked to read it, since the role and aim of a new import agency is entirely comparable to the legal function of a multicultural site located on the island of Iceland. It's a government agency that's the foundation of the Ministry of Health. Since its establishment in 2000 as a experiment project and as an institution in 2012, it has been subject to several attacks on its work. Over the years, there has been a wealth of money and has not been able to grow as necessary. As we have many examples, the services of this country from the country and the services it provides. It is not physical laws that all institutions must be located in the capital area, especially in a world where digital technology and services are being cast out. It is the services that we inhabitants of the country use very much. For example, a multi-cultural site can be used. information on the Internet and a business phone of information in eight languages However, I understand the very need to open up a service agency in the capital area where most immigrants live. Why not open a branch office or office from the Multicultural site located in Reykjavík or in the capital area instead of creating another phone? It just doesn't make sense to me. I hope that the senators ran and saw their dignity in pulling this suggestion back and coming with us on the way of strengthening and supporting more and more multicultural positions in order to carry out their legal assignments and new ones, which are in line for better service to immigrants, we agree.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u4	Mr. President. By permission of the President: ◯ We are naturally against charges. With those words, the highest. A secretary of transportation and unit, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, in the district of Channel 2 in the Southern District of October 24, 2017, when asked what position the Agency's position would have on the roadways. Those words fell only five days before the election last year. V.E.G. However, a minister, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, had received the keys of the Department of Transport and Division when he began to put up with ideas of paying expenses. Why do I mention it here? I don't mean to point out the obvious escape of the highest. The secretary of transportation and unit administration from their word. No, I mention it to put such a way, to say one thing for elections and one after which, in connection with trust, or rather with distrust, politics, and politicians. Especially in view of the expansion of trust in a team, a report to the prime minister was received two weeks ago. In this regard, authors comment on the appearance of the political element. I would like to quote the report and encourage all political people, whether here at the General or in the countryside, to consider these factors. The report says, with the permission of the president: Thus, the appearance of politics and government is a key to trust - it can be assumed that political conduct and conduct will have a significant impact on the political trust of the common people, and it must be on the responsibility of the politicians themselves to deal with distrust, whatever the reasons for this may be.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u5	Mr. President. The budget of the year 2019 has now become clear. Severe injection should be performed in activities related to climate, and is effective. That news, however, raises many questions, and I am not convinced that all the answers are as clear as you would like. After 2030, no new files for fuel and diesel cars should be allowed. That's only 12 years from now. Is it realistic to conclude that the world's loading stations will have been set up in all the land at that time? Is that any more realistic than thinking that our road system will be better equipped to take on ever - increasing traffic weights? Maybe it's not as much of a case as it sounds. I imagine it's easier to set up a loading station in the capital area than in the region where I'm afraid it's going to be a problem where energy distribution across the country is already scarce. The need for energy, especially in the country, is assured to be effective. I still celebrate evolution. The future, especially in a land where renewable energy is available, is definitely a car wreck. Yet, it seems to me that the production of electric cars is far more damaging than the production of fossil fuels. Hopefully, the production of electrical cars will be environmentalization in the near future. It's a question of whether here should be looking at both ends, not just one. Is it better that some other country is an environment, or as they say, "Don't point at me?" There is also a planned increase in carbon costs in 2019. I don't reimburse myself on more pollution costs, but I think it's pretty clear that it's also going to go into the prices and take out the necessities of a country where transport costs will increase as a result. I'll let myself at least. doubting that a higher character's discount will be enough for a hot dog and a soda in a Status Bowl.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u6	A respectable president. In the so - called information age in which information, production, distribution, distribution, and use of the community all - out of private life, social life, professional, academic, or political life - it plays a key role. National rights had come to protect authors'interests, which were few in time. Today, however, all of us produce material, share it, and use it to a greater extent than ever in every aspect of human life. As a result, the Author's right to everything we do with information technology. When writers'laws overpower the ability to communicate information, they reduce opportunities and possibilities in all areas, including culture. Now there are two old genetic ideas in the European Union, but there are paragraphs 11 and 13 of the Directive for the authorship of the digital internal market, in English called the Digital Council on the Digital Single Market, in English. These two articles introduce so-called cross-link taxes and upload filters, in English called the 'Link Taxi' and the 'Upload Filters', in English. I know it's boring and technical, but it's important, and I'm asking senators to listen. These are both ideas that violate free and open Internet, with the related results for the ability of all of us to create and share our self - righteous culture. It is, of course, justified by references to authors' interests, and that goal is good, but the purpose does not sanctify the average, and a good goal is not a tip for any tragic idea. If these bad ideas follow a final directive, they can be recorded in the EEA Convention during this terms. If this happens, it is important for the Icelandic Parliament to understand the threat of these two articles and to be prepared to minimize the harm they will otherwise cause. The rationale for distribution of information and distribution of information is of importance to the whole community. Although necessary, the Internet is not some toy, and it is at an extreme when it prevents the culture of itself for which it is intended to support and protect.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u7	Mr. President. All of us have an inborn right to life. Our right is guaranteed in the European Convention of Human Rights and would actually be guaranteed in a constitution if our new constitution had taken effect, but this right is not included in the current constitution. Likewise, we have the right to live with human dignity. There are many things in such rights. In the right to life, the State's duty is not to take life, as well as to the State's duty to protect life and prevent unnecessary death. In human dignity, e.g. that the government does not use torture or other disrespectful treatment or punishment. These are fundamental rights and they're irreverent. However, the question remains: Does the right to life conflict with the death support, the same as it is published in English, or the right to take advantage of it, e.g. for long - term incurable diseases, if they choose to choose a way to die with dignity, whether the right to life, or the right to die, will fail. This is an important question and an important discussion that could be said to be an early stage in Iceland. Hv. paritaprevir Brís Haraldsdóttir proposed a synopsis that assumes that the Generalizes to hide the medical minister's information on death support and the development of a law frame around it. I hope it succeeds at this council. Just at the end of the day, I'd like to point out that this important question and discussion will be given a place this Friday at a seminar held by the University of Iceland Reed. In this regard, the person and the specialist in the death aid of the Netherlands and Belgium will discuss the important question as to whether death aid and palliative treatment are contrary or what. I encourage all members of the council to participate in that important hearing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u8	V.E.G. President. Yesterday, at the end of the council, I listened to a talk. paritaprevir Guðmundur of Ingi, the son of Kristinsson, who wrote about the September meeting of the Northern Council held in Nuuk last week. The senator criticized the cost of that trip. The one that stands here has been a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee for five years now serving as chairman of the Northern Council of Iceland. In my professions in that field, I have never seen any unnecessary connotation on the part of the council. Senators always fly on common passengers unless they pay special for something more, and the natural ones themselves. Senators are generally not kept overnight in the finest hotels. The meetings we've been sent to are carefully chosen, of course. Based on the fact that I can see as far as I can see, Generalis staff and executives are working hard to do our foreign work in the most practical way. National cooperation is the focus of Iceland's foreign policy. We are united in other northern countries in key challenges and opinions in the international environment, e.g. when it comes to security and environmental and equality, so to speak. The northern countries also share a common view of a certain baseline, such as the importance of human rights, democracy, and the legal state, and the peaceful solution to issues. The Northern Council is a U.S. Senate site in official Norwegian cooperation, and many of the rights common in the Northern countries may be rooted in the Council of Northern America, but they may not yet know enough. Since its establishment in 1952, the General Assembly has been a member of the Northern Council of Churches. The Norwegian Parliament has sometimes criticized the costs of meeting in Iceland, and Iceland and I have responded that we are all valid members of the Council and that it is reasonable to believe that there is a exchange in the Member States. The same can be true of the Greenlands. I believe that there is a need for us senators to talk more about normatic cooperation, what projects are involved each time and what they do. [[The president calls.]] Thus we destroy suspicion from those who feel that such cooperation is only a waste of money. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u9	A respectable president. Although reading literature seems to be a little far-fetched at the council, I would still like to read a little story from the history of the Árnason of Jón the Year about Icelandic ingenuity and so forth, with the permission of a president: ▪ Pecker brothers had noticed that weather was colder in winter than summer, and the colder the more the windows were in each house. So they claimed that everything freezing and biting was because a house had windows. So they cleaned up and built a new house, where they had no window on it, where it was almost dark inside. In fact, they saw that it was a slight defect in the house, but both of them thought that it would be listened in winters, and they thought it might be better handled with good advice. So they cleaned up one day when the sun was shining in the middle of the summer and began to carry out the darkness from the house in their hats, some saying in the mires, turned away from them, and carried back into their house the sunshine, and now thought good for the future. But when they left the evening and settled in the house, they could not see what was before for them. Since the time they stood in these vast throngs, much water has flowed to the sea. Now we have the wisdom of Iceland to illuminate the sunshine on a bright summer day for just over 20 million. K.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u10	Mr. President. The Guðmundur and Geir fissum are now in the hearing for the Supreme Court. This tragic issue has been with the nation for decades and has often been in public discussion. The case reached its climax in February 1976 in fierce battles here in this hall. In the repetition, the prosecution is demanding and the defenders are acquitted. The case says that the judges back then confessed as a result of police pressure. There is evidence to suggest that the investigation of the case was incomplete. But what about the quality of the detectives today? A couple of cheers I've talked to are in agreement that it would be a great help to set up a special office of government detectives, but the office was laid down at the office of the State Marshals and most of the research projects taken to the governor in the province. With a new office, research would be a difficult test site for knowledge and knowledge. The office would then come to the police office to assist as needed. In our neighboring countries, there are experts in the field of research who assist other offices in general, the law needs to focus more on quality. In this regard, the Lawgiver's will must be done better. There is no government policy on law enforcement and research. There needs to be a long-term think about policy and implementation. It is worth considering whether the change to move the police school to Akureyri has actually yielded the desired results. I've spoken to police officers who feel that the content of the Akureyri police school is not acceptable. To maintain the best quality of law enforcement and research, constant training and re-education are needed both at home and abroad. Good results from the police work are important to all of us. The Central Party wants to have the country's country's best place and that funding will take into account the development and development of its activities. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u11	V.E.G. President. I'm here to discuss our medical system, to draw out what may matter more than anything else. There is no doubt about it in international comparison that we have a good health system. Of course, whether we discuss a waiting list or a lack of medicine, we have indeed been investing in this system, both in solids and human resources, to meet the demographics and to increase the number of those who need to be accepted. Perhaps what should matter most is that we are able to meet this growing pressures and requirements for service. At the same time, it is the competitiveness of all to enjoy the ministry regardless of their economic status and to continue to reduce the patient's payment. These are the main goals, they are challenging, but these main goals are self - centered. This should be what matters and within what is called a social health system. It still has a very good share here, an independent partner organisation, a self-employed doctors with great expertise, etc. On the contrary, the budget is directly evidence that we are supporting the system further. Indeed, health matters are first of all. Governments. Progress is greatly increased, first for the 2018 financial year and now about 12.6 billion in the financial bill for 2019 C.E. Stronger health systems are certainly the highest priority. Governments.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u12	Mr. President. It is proper to bring the attention of the United States Congress to its approval from last night's mayor's meeting. It was agreed to complete the conversion of the main organization of Reykjavík in 2010/2030 with transport and development axes for the public transport network; to initiate the planning of public quality transport systems in a special space with an East/west transport system up to the annual and north/south-linking of the Watermycin; to plan and after events initiate planning for multiplicity of urban living through urban development lines that will be co-administered. I would like to refer to areas of high quality culture in which practical and modern solutions are used for young people and for the first buyers. Mr. President. It is a milestone that must move the government to give full consideration to this decision made by the mayor. The government will be delighted to support the progress of the city line. The same applies to transport improvements in Hafnarfjörður and Gardavour. In order to reduce the risk of accidents and improve the quality of life in the population, it is necessary to provide transportation. The ring hour traffic at Setberg, Hafnarfjörður, e.g. becoming the same as in the A T - shirt, the same traffic weight. The harbor road splits Garðatown in two, there's solutions. Mr. President. The southwest corner can't be forgotten when it's the highest. A secretary of transportation drives through his district.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u13	Mr. President. During the last Monday, a discussion on national energy security was presented, and it was a pleasure to learn that there was a measure of solidarity among members of the Parliament on the importance of building up the transport system and trusting the safety of electricity throughout the country, as the highest level. The industrial minister of Þórdís Kolbrún Gylfadóttir announced. This related, Mr. President, I'd like to mention here that during the days, the energy forecasting committee came back and updated electrical projections for the year 2018-52050. According to this electrical projection, electricity consumption will increase by 80% between the years up to 2050 and about 2% per year on average. Overall, the use of 460 megawatts is increased which has been suggested to correspond to three reconstituted activations. Is it not expected that any energy - consuming persons are in the market, only to be kept in the presence of the public's electricity use? In other words, what we need to do is harness more energy and lay better lines and get out of the mud that many of these initiatives are stuck in the county. This must be done in case of an e.g. in the implementation of the government's operation programme on climate or the development of the electric areas of the fish - quilts. One last thing I'd like to say, Mr. President, is talking about an area that's fueled by oil-induced electricity is the Westerns, and it's only the whale's activation. That would be an immediate improvement, Mr. President, if the government followed the policy already set out in this case, following legal procedures, such as frame rules, but not to resort to any innuendo in order to confuse the situation and take steps backwards. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u14	A respectable president. It was the trip to the Northern Council just moments ago. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir did that. She talked about me being kind of critical of employees and what they meant, the organization. I'm trying to criticize the fact that my experience of this trip was such that I believe that if I had known exactly about this trip in advance, I would never have gone on it. What I'm trying to criticize is that if the organization was so good, why in the hell was I doing two days in Nuuk shooting around and looking around without doing anything about the council? It did not start until Wednesday, and a large part of the group arrived in Nuuk. It's this kind of organization I'm surprised at. There's 70,000 80,000.80.000 bucks. A hotel cost that wasn't necessary. I'm just saying, if it's normal, what's abnormal? I think this too in that context, when you start looking at things, if that's, for example. natural to send people to Sweden to hip surgery that costs three times more? Three could be taken at home for one person. Is that normal? I say no. Is it normal for the United States to go far beyond anything, doubleing it? Is it normal that things just double, or that something is paid for, just to be done, you know? I say for my part that I believe it well. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, who's in charge there, is doing good things, but I experienced that there could have been two, three men there to finish this. It wasn't all that I'm asking you about. Don't we have to change? As with the three - dollar cost and so on, if we look at such costs, 22 million in description, was it offered out? 40 million on wood and carpenter; I just ask: What happened to all this timber? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u15	A respectable president. The island of Vigur is now in the depths of Isafjörg for sale. It's unique. It's a historic place. The island has the same family built for a long time, even for centuries. Each generation has cared for it with the respect they alone, who consider themselves to be landkeepers and guests on this planet, and who will return a resource to future generations, which is truly a delight to attend the island's home and enjoy the natural and history that it holds. Vigur is a national treasure that needs no variety. So it would be natural for me to propose that the Icelandic state buy the island, receive the cylinder, and expel it in the form it is today. Priceable gift of the State to the nation of sovereignty. During the past few months, there has been a notable debate on the subject of possession. We've been losing a lot of land to foreign investors, including their resources. We also have a great deal of importance in our dealings with our country, especially the public's availability. History is also a resource that needs to be preserved, and it is important that it be available to the public. Government funds have passed through the trade of soils thought to have been a reason to protect and/or use for the nation, such as the Chefhorn of Deepavogshep, a land on the glacier, and now the last econominal area, a misdemeanor of the nation, especially in the sum of coins. What is the value of land, history, and nature? It is measured not only in crowns but also in how we view it as individuals, society, and nation. A respectable president. It's said that each one will look at the silver in his own eyes. We can agree that such pearls as Vigur need to be preserved for future generations. So I challenge the government to think carefully about buying it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u16	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to fix names. The men of transport are with me Guðjón Brjánsson Bránsson, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson of Friðrk, Bebean the Leví of Gunnarsson, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, and Þorgerður K. Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. This bill suggests some radical changes in the setting of human names set out in the law today, in fact, significant changes in the current law that the bill contains new legislation on the subject and that previous legislation will be removed. To me, this is a typical case of the conflict between freedom and custody. You see, present - day human name legislation involves my mind... the most extraordinary premeditation of the government... of what names parents may baptize their children. While the intentions, as often in such cases, are certainly good, it is good to keep in mind when looking, for example. in the traditional argument that the name should not be a problem for a child, that there is a risk that a child could be attacked or harassed by a parent's name, that there are very few cases where the official committees reject names for this reason. Then I also wondered about all the other decisions parents can make in their children's daily upbringing that could upset them, even tease them. Dressing, wearing some lame clothing in school, poor haircut, or whatever else you could call it. What about all the other important decisions parents make in raising their children who in the coming years are important to their raising, such as just wholesome food or choice at leisure, in which we simply trust parents to make these decisions with regard to their children's interests but do not have a law code and public committees that should monitor parents particularly in this case, since we have a rule of child protection and cases of serious neglect. Another argument that is often heard is an Icelandic tradition, that we must protect our names and our language tradition. It is interesting reasoning in the context of the fact that our tradition of names evolved here over the centuries without any single law on it. It seems that we've done quite well, and we've been guarding this tradition of ours ever since. It is really not until just over a century ago that we planned to establish legislation in order to defend this tradition that had developed since the country was built a few times earlier. There is also something else to keep in mind, our case continues to develop. We do not have the permanent intervention of the Generals or the legislature on how it develops. It tends to develop through the constant intervention of those of this country, and it cannot be seen that it is not safe to allow our long - term tradition to develop. This bill was previously transferred to the 148th legislature but could not be passed. It's moved now to take into account the reviews made by the General and Education Committee. The objective, however, is to ensure the right person to bear the name or names they choose and ensure that laws about names do not limit people's personal rights or people's freedom to define themselves. Again, at the Council of 148th, a comparable bill was transferred to the General Assembly, where the bill for changing existing human names had been proposed to the 144th legislature Council, 2014◯2015. Although the bill was in a similar way, in certain areas it was less likely. With this bill, e.g. suggest that no distinction be made between personal names and middle names and the obligation to convey the names of children to their parents is removed. What this bill is when combined with the bill submitted to the 144th legislature Council is e.g. Extinct of women's names and boys of male names, that names should not be violated by the Icelandic language system, and that names should not be out of the question. Then it is proposed that the Human Name Committee be put down and all the regulations concerning it be removed. To the extent that these issues are similar, the report here is based on the report of both the bill of the last council and the bill submitted to Council 144. Again, because of the widespread change in existing human names laws, it is advisable to present a bill for a new total law instead of a change in existing law. It is good to remember that a right to a name is protected by a 1st. 71. g. The constitution. Of course, it is a personal right, a name that is closely linked to a person's identity and self - awareness, primarily to personal and personal rights. The laws on human names that are proposed to change have broad limits on these rights, which cannot be reasoned with reference to public interest or other interests that are justified on the basis of modern society. It is also of interest in current legislation that the first fixed set up of genealogical names was established in 1925, where it was legally forbidden to adopt a new family name, while the family names that had been adopted earlier were tied to the offspring they had adopted. In fact, the law was rather poorly followed, so there were some examples of the use of genealogical names in the years that followed. In 1991, new man - made laws were accepted. In that case, both so - called legal genealogical names as well as illegal were reinvented, and the ban on the use of new genealogical names could be adopted. This rhymes with today's society in which we have some kind of privileged group that may be named by family names, can be maintained from the fact that at some point their ancestors have decided to change their name to this being, for most of them are family names in the minds of those of the preeminents probably favoring a very serious variation from the Icelandic language. Of course, each person should be free if he chooses to adopt family names or not, maintain family names that have been used in his own family, or even restore the family names of foreign ancestors, or parents that were long banned under Icelandic law. There are other factors to specifically mention. Only with regard to the tradition of names and the language system of the Icelandic language do we have to believe that we do not need laws or pressure to maintain some particular custom or custom. The opening point of this bill is that we should be able to trust people to develop this tradition in the same way that we should be able to trust parents to choose names that will not be of concern to them at the present time. Finally, I'd like to mention one important thing that is new in the bill, the authority to convert their gender to a national registry, and to apply them to the registry of the same rules of changes in such things as changes in names, that people are free to convert their sex registration into a national file, and that they may be allowed to register their gender as a male, a woman, or something else. In the bill, the option is, in fact, "No way." There's something that might cause debate, e.g. in the gay community, and worthy to listen to their viewpoints and should, in itself, be sufficient to use simply in the definition, הóndar. This is important even if it may be possible. is a small group. When we look e.g. the best interests of transatlants in this context are in the current principle of sexual correction to gain consent, including for a land hospital and surgeon, and after an 18 - month period in which the individual will have lived in a new sex scene. It is very strange that at the same time, sex registration or name cannot be converted into a national file, and it may be a real challenge for relevant individuals to live in a new sex role but to carry the same name and common sex registration into a national file. We believe that there is good reason to remove these restrictions, and simply that the individual is permitted to convert his or her sex registration into a national file, they prefer, in the same way that they are fully free to turn their name into a national file, no matter how much they want and how often they want it. This case is now proposed for the third time in a relatively short period of time, and I sincerely hope that we will be able to handle this difficult matter and that we will be able to change these ancient human laws this time, trust people, that we will allow people to have freedom of their own names or names of their children, while leaving the custody that is found in current legislation. That I suggest that the case be referred to the General and Education Committee, which I believe has received this matter in the last place.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u17	A respectable president. Thank you. A messenger's business. I'd like to address two, three things that I'm very pleased with on the bill. First, the good change has been made. from the last time it was stated that it is now taken out of the hands of members of the religion and principles of life to record names and that it is simply the role of parents to enter the Constitution of Iceland. This is in harmony with a synonym that I have made with several other members of the council at the previous council. Then I'm so happy that my family and middle names are being piled together. It's some kind of porridge that me and the sons of John have never really understood, any difference in names depending on whether they're tribal or intermediate names. Then, of course, I express great joy in expressing the rightness of the transvestite people. However, as the senator gets to know that the law is premeditated, I ask myself, " Do I not personally fall into the pit of fate to plan to have people record names? ' Why should the State have a national name list? [[The president calls.]] Do we not have social security numbers that allow access to all major public services? Here a minister of liberality maintains some ancient name - making system in order to defuse fate, according to his own report.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u18	President. Thank you. A senator resists. Change 2 g. On the basis of the registration of a religious or biological partner of a name, the very thing that has occurred in the process of reviews and indications in the management of this case during the last council is just an improvement. I think it's true that if we trust parents, of course, all we have to do is give them full responsibility on registration of the name, but don't hide that registration from anyone in the middle. In regard to the obligation to record a name, this is a very interesting point, and you might ask yourself: " Why on earth should we have a particular law on it? This could become an interesting subject for the Committee. We thought we were very radical and liberal in the forward change, but I'm not going to rule out any further. I think it's just an interesting subject for the committee to deal with.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u19	A respectable president. It's a pleasure to hear that a carrier is not wrong that we go beyond his conservative bill, but I think that we on the Committee must also consider going shorter. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Although we open the human name system and only support registrations regardless of gender and middle name and family name systems, we still have an Icelandic case that we need to protect. There's something that I think the Senate must make a serious opinion, how can you achieve these alleged changes towards freedom without getting too close to Icelandic, the language that I think we all agree to defend? We, on a universal and educational committee, will likely resolve to weigh the pros and cons of the list of names on the other hand and to ensure the practicality of the Icelandic in a name log. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u20	President. Of course, this is not everything that we choose. I'm assuming that the roll-in-the-name recording will be taken away after the whole case security's gone to hell. I think it's worth keeping in mind, too, in a changed community. Although it is true that we love -son and daughter and our names tradition, such as we live in a multinational society today. We have the fact that we are probably approaching a fifth of the people of the land who were born abroad and likely have a considerable number of people, either parents or grandparents or grandparents, who moved here to the country and who were not even allowed to maintain their names according to the tradition of their origin and would choose to be able to change to them again. I'm not worried that the dress won't protect itself, it's a tradition now and it's quite rich in us, and although it's definitely going to be shaped and developed over the centuries, we're not going to be going to change it overnight when they're taken care of. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u21	President. I welcome this bill, and I'm a big fan of the fact that being called Precinctism is reduced. But I'm asking if it's not the right thing to change the name of the law. They're now named human names songs. Many people want to say that women are men too, but not everyone who can agree that men too are women. In view of the fact that the bill aims that men, females, and other/judgment must be recorded and that no other restrictions should be placed on the absence of sex - related names, I ask if there had been any involvement in the renovating of the law, e.g. there are documents of personal names or documents about identification names.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u22	Thank you. A senator of this observation. It's a good thing in itself that women are men too, but it's a name for the law that I'm totally indiscriminate about. They could be named anything else, e.g. The law of names. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u23	No law on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u24	I trust the board to rephrase this bill from the ground, and then she chooses, as I trusted parents to baptize her children. I'm not worried about that. The law can totally name the fine proposals. A senator is coming with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u25	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the admission and following the bill. I also agree with the rights of gay people as well as those under them and those under them, that is of the good, as well as middle names and family names. I don't have the feeling that Jónsson, my friend who was standing here earlier, because I have the middle name Olsen. It was too complicated and a long process of putting it as a last name. I had to record it so that my son could record it because it was not allowed to fall by the middle. What I wanted to ask you. A senator's practitioner. We're both amateurs on analysis of all kinds of statistics, including to receive an explanation for gender pay. How does the senator picture it if we have at least a previous visit? Three registrations based on this? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u26	President. Thank you. An interesting question by a senator in answer. Now we're talking about some decent problem. I look forward to seeing the system succeed in even identifying the amount of pay given by three or more sexes. But that's not what I'm worried about. I think there's a part of the trend, we're just acknowledging that the sexes are even more than two. Should we, then, reflect our record in the fact, respecting the right to their sexual senses and registration accordingly, even if it goes slightly when it comes to some statistical information about the nation? Either way, it's always quite simplified, and it can be quite a little more complicated because of me if it guarantees better human rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u27	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I agree that this is a change of time. This is what we're supposed to do about the National Registry, and I assume that we need to make a change, too. I don't know if this requires any additional adjustment in what is mentioned here. It may well be. Or maybe it's just a question of how some institutions operate. But it's gonna be interesting to wonder about this because we're used to our whole system to distinguish everything between two sexes and not taking into account those who fall outside the standard. It would be interesting for the committee to wonder if there is anything else underneath that will have to be changed if this becomes legal. I agree that it would be a little exciting to see the system in ways that have not been done.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u28	President. I agree with that, but at the same time. A senator has no question directed to me in the second answer just so that the reality is more diverse and complex than we draw it up in our statistics today. I think it would be very interesting for the committee to consider what that means. Does this call for further adjustment or simply a new thought in the appropriate institutions? In fact, I think it is safe to consider how we more closely reflect the changes in society in recent years and decades, especially in these areas. The reality is not as black as we have drawn it to this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u29	Mr. President. Thank you. For this passage, a senator and a storyteller, Þorsteinn, son of Víglundsson. I believe that a human nickname is not all bad, although there are things to be done in the law. It's kind of interesting to see a list of names rejected by the Human Name Committee. Hv. A senator mentioned earlier that we should trust parents, etc. I ran, for example. on a man's name that was rejected, the name Lusifer. I think it's highly inappropriate myself to give this name to a child, but I'd like to ask him why. A senator: How does he see fit to prevent such a title? [[The president calls.]] Isn't that necessary?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u30	Mr. President. That's a very interesting question. A senator might be, but the answer would be: Why should we want to do so by law? We have the Constitution the right to religious freedom, atheism, or whatever other people choose in this regard. Is it not always the challenge to freedom that even when its bait offends us, we do not violate it by law? I can honestly say that in a religious context, this is not a beautiful name to me, but it's not my job to say that it would be chosen by parents to name it. Even if it offended me or offended me in some way, it would still be their right. [[The president calls.]] It is where our freedom is put to the greatest test, when its use offends us.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u31	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Freedom can be a problem. The reason why I especially stopped this name that the Human Name Committee has rejected, the man's name Lusifer, is because I know a fine religion story through my study, and I know that if a child had this name, it could be a real problem with traveling. If the person requested e.g. By visiting some country, I'm just calling on a Muslim state, the person might even be denied a visit to that country. There are many views in this regard that parents and those who enter the title may not realize at first. [[The president calls.]] That's why I think it's very important that we have some means to make sure these things don't happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u32	President. I understand why. A senator, but perhaps it's also good to bear in mind, and not forget in this context, that we have a general child protection law. You might well think that a child's right to child - protection law would have to be adopted in such a way that it was considered to be a child's right to be involved in child - protection therapy in the same way as some other serious neglect of parents. In 1st. 1st par. children's songs say, e.g. Do not use a child in any form of violence or other disrespectful behavior. It may well be that some terrible title would simply agree with that subject and would be subject to child - welfare committees, not to human committees. That's why I'm not concerned about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u33	V.E.G. President. Thank you for the 1st importer of this case, okay? paritaprevir The Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson, for an excellent passage. As he reviewed his case, this case continues for the third time. This supports the conduct of those who refuse to have a case between councils that this matter has developed and improved in the affairs of the council. I have to say, many times we have had an excellent discussion on this matter, which affects all of us because what separates us from other people is often our personal name. We can separate ourselves by doing so. The presenting of these radical changes may be a sign of the times. We have had rules about this party since 1914, and likely nothing to do with it that tells us that we need to take some step in these matters. Society changes, attitudes and other factors. This has become an international community, and I have seen that foreigners who have moved to the land have had to change their name. This has been very difficult for many of them. It is difficult to put aside the name that has been marked since birth. I think we all need to examine it, and it's just a good thing that we do it. Then I'd also like to mention what has to do with the transvestite. Many individuals who have gone through a sexual correction process have found it difficult to accept a name when they are ready to change it and how it has worked. I think there's clearly something that we need to deal with in a changing society with changed attitudes and times. You know, tradition is rich. The name tradition we've had is really fun, I just have to say that, to teach us to a parent by being a daughter or -son. We go to other communities where the weather cannot be talked about because it is just endless dry and gentle, but we can always start talking about our names. It can be the beginning of a pleasant conversation that is just good. Defects develop. I'm not worried that there's going to be a turnaround. I want to hold on to the tradition, and I hope we're more involved, but we don't cut any of the tights to stick with it if it's not convenient. The one standing here has a very Icelandic name, which is proud and contented. I'm my grandmother's last name, and I like it, but I'm sure I've often wondered about taking up some other name. How did they do this in the past? They were blamed for some aspect of the person's life, behavior, nature, or environment. I have previously said that it was somehow focused on the fact that the one here is called The Valley for various reasons that can be explained in different ways. But that's for fun. At the end, I'd like to tell you a story about a child coming home from school and being so happy about the name of a fellow student. And what is it? Well, his name is something called Guð. His name is Guðmundur. It's what I and my people think about a very ordinary name, but it's obviously not all of them. We're developing and changing, so we have to deal with it somehow. I look forward to taking these matters and discussing them because we need to take part in the changes and have the courage to take steps that must be taken. It's just a good thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u34	A respectable president. I'm on this one. Actually, I would have liked to be a associate at it, and I was invited, but I couldn't because I was outside the council and had a replacement inside, while Bjöl Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, a member of Pirata, is a member of the case. I support it, as my previous talks may suggest lightly. I'd like to start by quoting at what happened. 5th a.m. Smoke. N., Áslaugur Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir. On December 14, 2017, she spoke in discussions about the debate of the prime minister with the permission of a president: (b) Why is it important to know that a person is not truly liberal or is willing to support greater freedom to do something that he or she feels is not a good idea? It is no problem to say that we support the right people to agree, but it is the freedom of those who disagree with us. That was a great word for me then, and it still seems to me. I think they're relevant. This issue is not about what we personally think about how names should be in our country. If so, we cannot call ourselves liberal. It's just the way I think it is, and it seems that there's also trouble. A senator I was quoting. I am very pleased with my name myself. It's a rather traditional, Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, a common name like that, spoken entirely of in fingertips. In English it's Holy Raven Son of a Gun, so I can joke about it there. In Arabic, it is Ghurab Muqaddas Bin Muhaarib that no one in Iceland knows how to serve but me, apparently, except for people who know microscopic. I would like to start by discussing just the most common misunderstanding involved in this matter. It's children, blessed the children we all want to protect. It is easy to intervene in the affairs of children when someone is opposed to some kind of growth in freedom. It would appear to be a standard practice if someone was to allow something to start by saying: " What about the children? Yes, there are children and, yes, they do. They have rights, as a child's law dictates. But these laws were not given to protect children. They are not about children. I challenge senators to study the history of the law in force. They are not about children and do not concern children. In fact, the only item that can be said to be intended for children is that a name should not be troubled, but it also applies to adults. It does not even specify children. These laws have nothing to do with children. Child welfare laws have a bearing on children and should protect children from any type of parental violence, mental and physical. I'm sure it should be, but I don't think there's a lot of reasoning to be made. It's just a tip. That's the way it is in Iceland, child law is in effect, and then I think it should only be done with the whole discussion. I also speak of Icelandic culture, such as probably most people in this room, if not everyone, very much. But the Icelandic culture that I love, which I am happy to come back into contact with when I come home from abroad, is not because my lawgiver has banned me from doing something or forbids other Icelanders to practice their Icelandic culture, as they would like. Icelandic culture comes from the nation itself. It comes from our individual decisions, not from what we are at the Council, decide to protect specifically from the efforts of these liberal people in the community. There are liberal people in the community who decide these things, not us, or so they should be at least. In fact, I believe that these legislation, as it is today, are a perfect statement of distrust in the Icelandic nation of Israel that they can maintain their culture, which is not of the General but of the Icelanders themselves, of this people as we at the General Assembly have apparently intended not to know what they really like, not how the people of Iceland themselves would like. That's a totally ridiculous thought. This leads me to what has been mentioned before and is true, that, after all, it's about freedom or custody, about what we really think of freedom. Actually, I think of this case as one piece in a much larger piece of work about how Icelanders basically think about freedom. Is there power from the nation that looks up, or does it come with authority from above and look down? This is a basic question. I'm not going out in the Constitution, but that's the same point. The idea that a person of Homo sapiens could be born in that country, and the parents decided to call this new person something that the parents think is beautiful or appropriate, and they need permission from the government is completely at odds with all idea of freedom. She's not only at the angle, she's 180 degrees in the wrong direction. If we don't even have our names, how dare people talk about liberalness at the same time, and they support bottomless nonsense like the existing law on this subject and, in fact, others? This is total predestinationism, one of the greatest premeditities, far greater than putting alcohol in a special wine camp, even driven by the state, in particular tax returns. Some may call it fate, and the debatt can be taken. This? It's completely premeditated. She won't be all the more than that one knows of mine. I don't know anything stronger than this. That's why I get pretty hot when I talk about it for a long time. It is sometimes said that parents can honestly name their child whatever they want, but how it will be recorded into a national record has to be by law. It's a twist in my opinion. National file is a file. If the idea is that the people, or Icelanders, or people who build that country record their name, they say themselves that they must be the name of the individual they have, not some name that a national file likes. If so, it would likely be a social security number, and then perhaps what the State feels should be called a certain child or a certain person. And, actually, there is a name, it's called a social security number. Number. It's more practitiony in many ways. One could give another such talk on the topic number in another context. Still, it is not that kind of premise that this is, for it does not have the same purpose and is not as personal to people, at least not yet. People are personal names, they are personal for people what other people call them, as well as for what government agencies call them. This is appropriate in the discussion about transnational people. People are now asking others to use certain personal names, individuals who are biologically male, but who choose to be addressed by a female personal name because they experience themselves as women. In general, I probably feel respected for such things. If I decide to start calling someone named Vilhjálmur Villa, and Vilhjálmur says, "Please don't call me Villi, I don't like it, I just call him Vilhjálmur." I think it's self-respect. I don't need an explanation why the person would rather be called Vilhjálmur than Villi, and it's none of my business. It's not my place to say, just in a general sense of courtesy. The idea that we're going to have the real names that parents, friends, and family use over their children, but the state, public institutions, and more or less all societies that use national records may be called something they don't want to be called "the same rudeness" as we have condemned when people start calling each other names they don't want. This point that the registration of the name to a national file is something completely different than the individual's name is just not correct. People in general want their name in a national file, maybe they call themselves something else daily, if they want their own way, but at least I say. For myself, I like to have my real name in a national file. I just want it. I don't want to explain why this is going to end with a file, not a warrant list. He is with the Human Name Committee here proposed to be laid down, blessed, and the time has come. I also want to consider what is said in this discussion that this is not a big issue. Actually, that's less often said or it's at least my experience. People have begun to experience more and more that this is an important matter. I think there's a generation change. There are only other people who want to get out of the habit and other people who come from other places or who have new traditions that are forming in the community. And I also think that people are more aware of what kind of predestination is on the ground, regardless of whether it ever happened in the culture of 1914. This is only a problem now, and I don't see it doing anyone good unless it's at the expense of this fundamental freedom of people. It's easy for me to take sides. If this isn't a big deal, if it's anything we shouldn't be wasting our precious time talking about, let's just finish it. If people do not agree on the basics of whether we ourselves can be at peace with secular authorities as much as our own name, I suggest that they focus on the basic idea of what it means to be free persons. I suggest that there is an important issue in this bill as well as in others with comparable issues. Finally, I would like to mention the most amazing irony that exists in the case of transvestite people. The current law specifically states that name does not bother. What do people think is going on when a transponder wants his name changed, makes a male name to a female name, because the male name bothers them? So, what do we do? We'll fix that by allowing the person to rule this completely himself. We are not telling people what to be, what to be, what to name, or how to feel when the government decides to call them something they don't want to.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u35	A respectable president. I support this bill, expect to benefit from working on it in a global and educational committee, and taking into account the views that may arise. As I see the situation in the present picture, I like it. Older laws by the arrangement we've been living with for years with a Human Name Committee and so on are a child of the day. Hv. In this regard, members of the council have been talking about fate, which is one of those words that we so often use, perhaps without thinking about. I wouldn't want to use that word, even if I didn't reject it in myself. It seems to me that there is an older law and an older arrangement because, at the time, the Icelanders generally viewed being a nation as a community project. This describes the insecurity and even the inadequacy of a new nation that has been raised for centuries by other people, has failed to control it, does not fully know how to act in its society, does not know how modern society should behave, import European society's laws and customs, and is trying to tailor to its own small and powerless society. It was a national structure that occurred at the beginning of the 20th century, often with the result of the development of strange traditions and practices, and a particular tendency to overmanage, a measure of nervousness can be said. This shows a measure of nervousness and certainly a lack of confidence in the fact that we know exactly what to do and especially that the common people know how to manage their lives. We don't think like this anymore. We no longer view it as a social assignment to find out how people name their children. It's just not like that. Other than that, like a snooze. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, son of Wazowski, was doing well in his counterargument, coming to give a child a very foolish name, and a foolish name must come to the attention of the procurator of the child. When it comes to choosing their children's name, it is not the task of grammar. We also talk about Icelandic tradition and Icelandic culture in this regard. Hv. Some members of the council have expressed deep love for Icelandic culture, which is certainly enjoyable, when people love something, but I'm not sure that it is just a matter of loving Icelandic culture, but it is also about our having our customs and customs, and our cultural heritage that may be rooted in ancient times and living here in isolation for centuries. We have a responsibility to try to let this cultural heritage live through a difficult time and get through a cultural waste of time. It is the job of all generations to preserve the context of their culture. Our duty toward the English language is to make sure that in complicated times an Icelandic tongue survives. Although the Icelandic name system is valuable in itself and that it is fun for people to be named -son and daughter and so forth, I believe that our main concern is that we do not let cultural value live by law, but live it in our daily lives. They live in the kitchens, drawing rooms, television shows, the way we talk to each other, and the way we are. They don't live by law. It is not Generalism's job to let Icelandic culture live, that is, all of us, Icelanders, live in our lives. If we don't see it anymore and are no longer interested in letting Icelandic culture live, there are no laws that can let it live. Then she'll just die, and then her time's up. I like Icelandic name habits. As I watch Icelandic national teams race for e.g. soccer and a man gets proud and happy sometimes I've just pissed myself off that the costume stands, and can hardly fit on them, dvubud-dot, and vubivu-son instead of just Sigga, Jón, Nonni, Simbi, Gyða, something like that, as we use ourselves. This is the Icelandic noun that we must observe. We're gonna use this. I'm not saying, "What?" paritaprevir Víglundsson! I use my first name when speaking to you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn Víglundsson. I'm not going to publish some law code on this, but I'm just reminding it in this chair that it's a great and fun tradition that's fun. Only the last names. I'm related in a literal sense, my cousins have many family names because we are the descendants of a man named Thor, Thor Jensen, and his children adopted Thor, which is basically just Thorsson and Thorsdóttir, short for it. I myself am Thorsson because my father's name was Thor. So, I haven't recorded that particular last name, and I'm not gonna make it out of this. I'm on the other clan -- now I'm just playing with an imaginary example, I'm blundering in this speaker's chair while I still have time to do it - including A family from Seysardir, where my grandmother, Laufey Jónsdóttir, was born from a town named Hólmi. Her siblings went to America, and one of her brothers called Bjössi adopted the name Bill Holman when he moved to America. Somewhere in America, The Holmans, my relatives, are named after this town, Hólma. As descendants of the Laufey Islands, we were called Hólman. So I'd be Guðmundur Hólman. I'm just trying to imagine what I'd be like if, for example. Yeah. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, who wanted to join this good family, began to call himself Hólman, Helgi Horfn Gunnarsson Hrafn of Hólman. I don't know, I might just be glad to have such a great help with my family, but I don't know what else would be like. What I'm trying to say is that we use genealogical names to separate ourselves from someone else and to feel that we belong to something specific. There is no need for anything so awesomely fine in the sense that it is a great power, influence, and money. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Not at all. Many of the people who have family names that could be recorded in this small window when they could record Icelandic names were not necessarily a bunch of statebusters or people like that. They were just people who wanted to teach themselves at their party, their valley, their town. Then the descendants of these people want to separate themselves as descendants of these people. We are like the people who should be traced to Hólara, in Sufficiency, to feel that we are all related, to feel some sense of compassion in them. This is an important part of the Icelandic family community, which is the foundation of our Icelandic family society. We may not often think about it, and perhaps these ideas are now about giving it all the right thing to do. I don't know. Possibly. And maybe it's okay. Maybe it's okay for anyone to call themselves Hólman. Actually, I do. That's what I'm saying. I want to state that I support this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u36	Madam President. First, I want to thank the senator very much for his good speech. It was really fun sitting in the council hall listening to this talk on this interesting subject. First of all, I have to say that I support my whole mind that we make the adjustment here suggested to make. However, the senator referred to child - protection law, so I must ask: What is a foolish name? The Senator said that when we make a stupid name, we need to respond. I thought, "Wait, well, what's a stupid name? Who measures what's a stupid name? I agree with what answered the question. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, of course, it's not about culture. I also agree with the senator that it's not about child custody, but it's more about wanting to hold onto some old tradition because they think she's got something in her head about how we can control the name of a person. The question, though, is, What is a foolish name, and who can make that decision?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u37	I thank you for this brilliant question that really drives me through my head. GAT. It is my goal, as when I was in elementary school, as I regularly heard. G-A-T, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson. I also got so much to hear in high school that Andri, that I was one of the few men in the country named that name, would be a very foolish name. I don't know. I don't know. However, I think there are some standards for what's foolish even though they're not completely explained, e.g. If I gave birth to a son or a daughter, calling a twin or something along the street, something that is most disturbing to the general sense of well - being, and which we obviously believe is a loss of burden to the child. I think most of us have these standards, but they are floating, and they vary, considering that a few years later the name Andri became one of the greatest fashion names in the country, thanks to the books of Pétur Gunnarsson's son.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u38	Madam President. It's fun to be the only one named Hjálmar Bogi in Iceland, and it's really fun, and I'm asking you not to change that. Just for fun, my sister was going to baptize her son Hlynur Ingi Viðarsson, but she canceled when she saw the abbreviation, HIV. We do not want that acronym at school. So she turned to Hlynur Viðarsson. But the senator did not answer the question of who would turn up. According to Icelandic culture, it is very nice to be called Hreinn Drengur. When do we intervene? That's what the discussion is about. When do we take into consideration what is within the range of values, the name of the individual? But in order to be maintained, I believe that this will be done as will be done here with them. The village Þorsteinn of Víglundsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u39	I'm just hoping that we have some resources to figure it out or to stop some parents baptizing their children with names like Two Pie. I think it's important, and this is important, that if we trust people on another table with children, trust people to bring them up, feed them, dress them, care them, and what they need as children, we must trust these people to name them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u40	V.E.G. President. I just come up here because I'm bored. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[Up front.]] I find it quite amazing to listen to even the desperate words of liberality. I'm gonna be a conservative. [[Foreground: you are.]] Yes, but sometimes I'm accused of being too liberal. Then you listen to people talking about liberalism, these same people don't even want to let me buy alcohol except by a state worker. They don't want me to listen to anything but state radio and then talk about being liberal. [[Up front.]] There's something contrary about this discussion. I don't think it's about freedom or custody, just nothing at all. We are always limiting the individual's freedom, everywhere, not even allowing ourselves to determine the shape of the house, which activity is involved, etc. We do this all the time. It's not about freedom or custody. To me, this is about cultural heritage and culture. It was interesting to hear it. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson earlier says that no law could let any Icelandic culture live. Why do we have laws on memory protection? Why do we have laws on a National Museum? Why do we have laws about the rest? What are we gathering this stuff at the National Museum that has long since stopped using? [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] And just say, "Hey, what's the difference?" It's just a new community. It's a whole different life now. It's a rusty piece of shit. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I'd still like to have a national museum, and I'd like to have a memory protection, archaeological laws and laws about all of this. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] It is a law to appease people's houses, not to use their own possessions. Then we're gonna have a snooze. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson and he says, "Well, it's just freedom. [[Take it up to the bottom of the bottom line.]] It's basic freedom. - Is this up to you? I don't think this has anything to do with freedom, except there's going to be an endless Egyptian problem around it. One day, we're talking about people being somehow sexless, they're not supposed to be sex, and all of a sudden, they're here for sex, and they're in a different role. We're always making sex halls everywhere, but we're supposed to be sexless and all kinds of names, and nobody knows anything. I think it's gonna be an amazing problem and calculating for feminists to calculate the whole angle. I don't think there's any good in this bill, that there's no need. I'm going to use the sentence from what? paritaprevir Thorsson, son of Thors, is this the foundation of society? [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u41	Is it?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u42	That's what I heard, it can be bullshit. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I think that's what we're talking about. A senator does not always remember what he says. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Or the senator who's in the chair. I may be, but I experience this as a little attack on the foundation of Icelandic society. We would surely call it an attack on the foundation of society, culture, or cultural heritage if we were to do something else that we consider important in our cultural heritage. I'm sure that's what I'm talking about. Senators, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson and others, would rise up on the hind legs - and not just on my hind feet if I suggested that we change the rUS or that we should sell alcohol elsewhere from the state. Then freedom doesn't matter. But if we're going to give our children some ridiculous names that don't fit into our culture, our identity, whatever, that's a lot of freedom. I don't think it's relevant, except for all the problems this is going to bring. We've seen in the media when a Human Name Committee rejects some ridiculous names that we know in advance not to fit Icelandic language but to make the child's life difficult as a child, even for the rest of his life. But we don't say anything, we just trust people, but then people are very busy setting all sorts of rules, trying to watch out for harassment, and it can go very far in looking out for them, but then we're actually building a basis for such problems. We're just feeding such a problem, totally unnecessary. It is not as if choosing is not of sufficient value. I could understand the problem if it were so that the government would give us a name. Then I understood the worries of men. But it's not what it is, we can choose Þorsteinn and Guðmundur and all. And Helgi Hrafn. I have a son named "Helgi," a nice name. We're supposed to be very careful. I'm not saying that this isn't supposed to be cleared up, and maybe not quite so stuck in the form. We can take this in some step while the meaning and all of this is developing. We don't have to throw it all out and put it down, we can just step it down. The same applies to shopping, we can first have freedom in letting people sell it at special stores before we later let it into a general camp. It's got at least Not to me anything about freedom or predestination but the question can be asked: Is this cultural heritage really of any importance to us? Are we creating more problems than we are going to solve? I think we're creating a lot more trouble with this than we're going to solve, and I think people can live with all the names available without feeling like they're safe.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u43	A respectable president. Hv. A senator has succeeded in being a local conservative. That caught my attention. A senator showed no argument, so I heard, for having it the way it is except the bullying enemy, who has been repeatedly explained how to handle it. It's treated with child law. Hv. However, a senator mentioned, such as. That he wanted to be able to buy alcohol from private sources, something I've supported, and he's supported in this child. So they're gone from what they're talking about. Senator. Hv. A senator wants to mean that I don't want him to listen to anything but VOLV. I don't care what happened. A senator listens to them, so they're gone. Hv. A senator said that there should be no gender, and there should always be gender proportions, but there were no genders and no one knew anything. Okay, what if it can be sex? What if it doesn't have to be equal to sex ratios? What if someone knows? What if we just moved away all those complaints? A senator to the wrangle. The members of the council who are here for liberality in other matters will not fall apart. A senator a little bit about himself? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u44	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson spoke so fast that I couldn't reach half. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] But there were certainly more arguments than mobbing. I'm talking about protecting the nation's cultural heritage. That would have been logical at some point. Because it has become so much freedom to name anything, I have also wondered why I must not speak any language in this sermon.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u45	Because it's the General.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u46	Wait, why? Isn't it just my freedom to speak here in any language? We can go on like this forever. I'm just not buying that this has something to do with freedom or liberality. I think it's part of our community, national characteristics and cultural heritage, just like many other things. I don't think that our freedom is so limited that we can't use any bullshit as a name in this context. [[The president calls.]] It's just the way I watch it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u47	A respectable president. I think it's so strange when you're talking about it. The senator's coming up on the speaker, I've heard him do this before, saying, "I'm the free man, but now there's an exception. Besides, the exceptions are rather large and quite unpleasant. Then argue. A senator somehow means that others should be some horrible hypocrites to freedom. When they correct this situation and claim to be free people in other matters, they suddenly find themselves among those who do not want their freedom. Who? Yeah, yeah, yeah. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son. To say that it's not about freedom, but it's about the same talk that it may be cleared -- he uses space - and it doesn't have to be that strong in the form is a contradiction. Of course it's about freedom. When you are directly forbidden to do something with the law of the land, it is, of course, a loss of freedom. It can be a legitimate impairment of freedom. It's, for example. legitimately suppressing freedom of expression for various reasons, e.g. to ensure a reasonable trial or privacy of someone's private life. There's a impairment, though. [[The president calls.]] There is an internal contradiction. A senator is saying. He can't both be here against those who want freedom, but somehow it's not about freedom.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u48	V.E.G. President. I'm not against people talking about freedom or anything against freedom. I said at the outset that I was bored and wanted to use this opportunity to point out the twin in the entire freedom talk when people come here and talk about freedom in these things that are not free at all. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[Mostly you, huh? Senator.]] But, of course, there are limits to all freedoms. It's always been and it's always gonna be. [[Up front.]] Here is the discussion about everything else. I think that once you've been here unnecessaryly, it's to the top of five. All of this is a double - skined debate, a matter of freedom. In itself, it does not disturb me too much, even though they make room for this and have increased their freedom. I don't care exactly, but I'm just pointing at all the double skins and the confusion over the discussion of freedom and custody. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u49	Madam President. I may be here first and foremost to avoid it. Senator from further routes, at least For now. Although I hardly agree with a word that was presented there, I enjoyed the speech of the senator. But one thing was good for me, that was. A senator said he was a conservative. That's where it finally got right. I've always said that. A senator claimed to be liberal unless it was for this bloody freedom, which was the main problem. That's the one with the list as a dog. A senator pointed out that there was plenty of names to choose that had been put on the blessed list, people must be able to do it. I find this very often characteristic of the discussion of conservatives, that it should be photographed as it is today, saying, "This is our cultural heritage, and we can't change anything here. This may remind a person of the organizational discussion, especially in Qunosina, unless it looks exactly like something built 100 years ago. I wondered what would have been if we had decided to freeze torso in the Qunos, saying that there was nothing to be built but a trolley forever. [[The president calls.]] I guess we wouldn't be happy about that. I wonder what. A senator does not agree that even this list can be developed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u50	V.E.G. President. Intimacy is virtue. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u51	That's a new one, though.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u52	Everything that is good and important to the nation keeps us together, part of our inheritance, is good. This does not mean that humans cannot be liberal. There is also no list of names to choose from. You just have to follow certain rules. This is no great problem. That's why I say, this case I think may evolve a little longer. We can take one step now, I think that would be okay. We may be able to bend the most rigid grammatical rules and edit them. Then comes a larger group that can say: Yes, now I can have my name. It's all about getting your name. But these are just a few of them, and they kind of call them noises.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u53	Madam President. Reservation is virtue, yes. We have often been filled with such virtues somehow through the years in all kinds of laws, regulations, and official committees about the rest, and this. Long ago we lived, and in fact, we still do all sorts of seas, which I call custodyism, in which the State has determined a number of things, for the time it was possible for a house to be built. I think all the Flats in Garðaville are 150 square feet away because someone had decided that it was the ideal size of a home for a family. In time, a jeep was not allowed to be moved unless there was a license from some board of directors. If I recall correctly, at some point our free sports team had a problem getting themselves out of a trick box because a committee wouldn't allow it to happen. It's not just another metaphor of those seas I think we're going to have. Would a senator not agree that we want to destroy the world in general?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u54	V.E.G. President. I wonder how many names there are. Senator? Do you want me to list all of them? [[Foreground on: Yes.]] I could be a long time. Some committees are unnecessary, and some are good. There are no committees at all. I think that comparing time between men not even currency is not comparable to what we live today. Perhaps we are so long today because most of us have been very good members of a government - or a good category. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] That's why we may be number one in the world, as they say. But it may not have been for others to do much.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u55	In...?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u56	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u57	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson's son's speech. I'm just going to put his paraphrase into my speech. He may not have had full attention when he listened to her because he was bored. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I'm also a conservative, just like a dog. Senator. I'm probably more of a conservative than he is. I realize, however, that an Icelandic tongue is not a collector, nor will it be stored in a museum as a final product, just there, and put it into some museum where it is to collect dust. I think the English language and culture need to be alive and must be alive and powerful in our daily lives. If not so, but only the law is likely to die. [[The president calls.]] I want a strong national museum, and I'd like to have a strong national radio as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u58	...it always is.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u59	V.E.G. President. I want a strong names committee. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I think it's important. We're always spending a lot of time, worry and money defending Icelandic language and culture. We do it all the time. Hv. A senator must have been very close to all of that. And then, suddenly, some names of people, they don't matter anymore. It doesn't matter what your names are, people can name foreign names.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u60	You can.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u61	Anything, any names, doesn't matter. Why is this cultural heritage of no importance, but risk that everything will go to hell if RUSO disappears in the modern technology? VOLUME, of course, is of no relevance today. I have no doubt that this was a very cultural institution in the past. [[The president calls.]] But why are we not allowed to live and enter the future when it comes to the Kingdom News? All culture goes to hell if it goes away.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u62	A respectable president. The national television or National Museum for this reason or other comparable institutions are the scene for cultural work, the scene for cultivating culture, a place where people come together and grow their cultural resources on an equal basis. Human Name Committee as hell. A senator is so precious is a power agency, an authority agency, an organization that determines what is and what is not. I think, unlike what. A senator, that the public is absolutely trustworthy in giving his own children a name and giving them a name that reflects what is dear and most sacred, not what the human committee may be most cherished and most sacred. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u63	V.E.G. President. A Human Name Committee is also cultivating culture. Of course, there is no big difference. They're assigned a role. State radio is assigned a legal role, and you must not forget it. I don't think there's any need for his State Radio to do that anymore. We can tell, it's okay. Some people want it like this, but I'm just pointing at the twin, that's why I'm using it. All this can be because of me, we can debate what's a big part and how important it is. All right, but I can't quite accept that this is all a question of whether this one is a liberal and the custodyist. We ponder the importance and appreciate each time. Is this important to the nation and to society or not? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u64	Privacy...
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u65	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The armor of Níelsson's son for his speech. He even said, and it's naturally quoted by memory, that it was one of the most unnecessary elements this has ever seen. What I want to do with the senator is if he thinks the present human law is totally perfect, to form 2 mg. 1st par. that says that personal names and middle names can never be more than three total. What does any government agency have to do with whether two, three, or four names?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u66	V.E.G. President. The government has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u67	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u68	Furthermore, the Kingdom is of no concern to what we do many other things, but it is still a matter of concern to us as we know. What does that have to do with the kingdom because we have a reason? paritaprevir Dr. Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son, if any doctors in the town have a business of their own? What does the government's independent medical term have to do with it? Some just want to ban it over their heads because it can destroy something else. There are many things the state has nothing to do with. I'm not saying you can change or correct the law, but I think this prohibition is just for pragmatic reasons, i.e. It can't fit in the computer system. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I don't think there's a better explanation for that. Why would people name a lot of names? [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] We're always trying to get some fun out of people. [[The president calls.]] Let's just stop.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u69	Madam President. I'm gonna continue to stick with the issues we're discussing here. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] However, I would like to discuss other matters with you. A senator will follow. I hope he'll be in the gym then. But I'd like to ask him about something else here. In 1st. Count 9. current law reads: A civil citizen's family name must not be taken by his or her mate. What is it? I agree entirely with the senator about the cultural value of our name system, but we must be able to trust people to choose their names and choose their names. This particular bill does not contain the big truth, but it is certainly not in current law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u70	V.E.G. President. I'm just suggesting that we do what we need. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson brought a bill on this, fixed this law, and let his or her mate take his or her last name. We don't need all of this as reason. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson is offering. I'll be with the senator on the suggestion to fix this. No, no, I haven't been through what to turn into the law. No doubt there are many ancient and legal features that have no meaning, since they are fire - old, have no real meaning, nor do they mean anything to the cultural heritage or anything like that. It's okay to fix it, but here we are, people, everything else. Here, people are going to go out to a antibiotics that will cause problems and trouble because someone has some sense of identity. We have many good names, and we're chasing eccentricity and playing around. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I think we're supposed to spend the council time on something else.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u71	A respectable president. I'll just be honest with you that I'm about to give another speech because of each speech. paritaprevir Emboss the Brynjar of Níelsson, who went through many fields, as we heard and enjoyed. I'm a little bit on the level he brought in. One of the things the other meant was twins. Of course, I noticed many double - minded people, but neither in my own words, opinions, or viewpoints on this matter, and I would like to mention some of the subjects where I have noticed that at least My party, Pirats, has seemed more liberal than a series of whales. A senator in general, not that this is supposed to go into some special contest. [[Up front.]] [[Take it up, Neeei.]] I just want to refute the idea that no one can be liberal unless he has a party card in the Independence Party. It's simply wrong. I have noticed that from another reason. Independence, such as. The morning newspaper editors, that what seems to be watching in a town is not freedom. What it's all about is being able to take the opponent and mark that terrible, horrible word - left - and use it to scare people from other groups, even though they are more liberal than the group as well as the group. A senator is a member and a senator. I don't see him here. I don't see him here. Hv. A senator specifically mentioned me as a senator in connection with the drinking matter. As I mentioned earlier in my talk, I took time to think about the so - called drinking language, i.e. to authorize alcohol sales elsewhere than in the state's camps, and I'm in favor of that case. I don't fight anything special for it because it's not within my field of interest, but I'm ready for it. I know there will be consequences. This is out of harmony with the main public health issues. I'll just admit it, because it's a debatable thing that we'll take when that case comes to pass. Something tells me, though, that it doesn't come from the Independence Party this time, but maybe from what. a member of this bill, if I allow myself to guess. Another matter is drugs. I'm just saying here and now that no sitting party at the council and no one else for a good time, if ever, has shown as much freeness to it as Pirats - and we're embarrassed to say, "Let's stop punishing drug addicts." The independent group would likely go out and say, " Let's go sell something at the store. ' Let's go sell something, invest something, put money in something. But freedom isn't just a business matter. paritaprevir Brunes the son of Níelsson. Personal freedom is about individuals themselves, individual freedoms e.g. to be at peace with government persecution because they choose to put into themselves some material that the community has already said should not, the individual's freedom to choose their own name or freedom to make personal use of alcohol, such as. The one standing here has submitted, not the Independence Party. The independent party is more involved in business freedom than in individual freedoms. As long as he succeeds in naming other classes left, he is content with his share in the affairs of individual freedom. And it's got the twin. With regard to writers, Piratars have been the ones who want to allow more and forbid less. As for the blasphemy of Piratar's will, they allow more and forbid less. It was a member of the Independence Party who voted against that bill, not that I'm going to teach you why. paritaprevir The armoury of the son of Níelsson for the doing of her second excellent senator. About the national anthem? Allow more, forbidding less, to promote Icelandic culture, and to use the national anthem more. As for the hate speech article in general penalties, it is one who has been criticized that it goes too far and is too much dangerous for the minorities to which this article is intended to protect. As for the Kingdom News, I have not been able to support people being forced to listen to them. I feel that a discussion about the State Radio should take place here in the wake of a case that I'd like to express myself. A senator to make an effort so that we can discuss it in detail. I'm sure I'd like to reexamine the role of the state radio. Times change, and technology changes. I'm sure I do. I mean, I've been wearing nose tax, and I think it should be illegal under the constitution, just as a tax form above my head, if that's the case. Hv. A senator makes up opinions against me and other members of Congress that we don't have, and he says in advance that just because the editors of the Morning Journal have managed to name ourselves left, we must be opposed to all the freedoms that go on. By the way, a senator is in favor, just not when it concerns the subject, not when it comes to the individual.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u72	The President reminds the senators that here we are discussing human names bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u73	V.E.G. President. We needed to point out what we were discussing. Because of what? A senator is so depressed for answering me, and I am in the middle of something else that I can discuss with an individual freedom and other freedoms, the left and the right. Of course, left is a great word. This is because left men were once socialists, and socialism has been dangerous and is as dangerous, even as it once was. I can also say that freedom of the individual is important and that the freedom of the business is also important. Of course, no other tribe has ever been fought properly for these freedoms. I know why. A senator and many Pirates are very offended when you connect them to your left, but I have noticed that those who have tormented from this Pirate party are all members of the Socialist party today if there's something to mark the net. I think Pirata's basic ideas are on the left, and that's not a good development. But there are many, and there have been many liberalities in certain Pirates. My point is, when I took an example earlier in the discussion about people who were opposed, I was not speaking specifically of why. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson just said that many of the men who lived by it were opposed to these matters. Because of what? A senator spoke of drug abuse and the punishment of drug abuse by drug addicts. A senator was born, just to make it clear. It's all in print. If he was born, he was very young.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u74	A respectable president. I wasn't the one who started talking about other cases here, it was a reason. When a senator spoke out in his speech to point out the hypocrisy or the double in the words of others and went through a wide range of topics, I felt the need to answer what I did. This case is certainly about freedom, and if we are going to go out in some sort of classy manner, I think it's all right that we just talk about freedom. Then let's just do it. But I think I'm fully armed in that speech and I don't need to agree with it. paritaprevir Empresses, the Brynjar of Níelsson, for being liberal, although he manages to name other people left if he wants to. Hv. A senator here speaks of socialism. Why is socialism so terrible? Is it because there's alcohol in camp for socialism? No, it's because socialism, as it shows in Russia at its time and in China today and in North Korea, Cuba, and what limits people's freedoms. The fundamental difference between us and him. A senator and others, on the other hand, are unable to be liberal and left. That fundamental misunderstanding comes from always looking at freedom in a financial sense; it's always a matter of taxes, privatization, whether the state sells anything or not. But when it comes to the freedom of the individual, as if, damn it, a respectable president, what we may be called, it all counts as nothing. I'm not saying anything about it. A senator is not free in all the other matters he mentioned, I merely show that if he wants to talk about double - skind people, he will be careful what he thinks and which house he throws.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u75	V.E.G. President. Looks like someone on the twin. I'm not going to argue about it any more. But why is socialism dangerous? [[The point is, he's not.]] Yeah. It contains a built - in guardianism. The person doesn't matter. [[Up front.]] You're just gonna have to read more about your homework.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u76	Use proper address words.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u77	Hv. Senator. It's just that way. It's all right to think that he's good and clear, and good for society. It's okay. However, that is not so that men listed on the left cannot have a view of freedom in some particular detail. I'm just talking about how we have to be a little consistent with ourselves and not just picking out. You can say: Okay, you're doing it yourself, you're talking about freedom there and there, but then you're against this freedom with human names. When I'm talking about the individual's freedom, it's not limitless. I've never claimed it should be. If that were the case, we wouldn't have the whole system. Then we'd be totally free, free to go where we lived, what the house was like, what activity we had, etc. I'm not talking about that kind of freedom. That's why I'm not talking about the need to be full of freedom with all kinds of human names and all manner of conduct in it. I can still be an individual, a freedommaker and a liberal. What I just found so strange is that some of the people here who have talked against me buying alcohol at a store from someone other than a government worker are so concerned about human names and that you can just have any name. [[The president calls.]] That's what I don't understand.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u78	A respectable president. I'm not surprised that only selling alcohol at the government store, but I can still answer a question. A senator as to why people can accept this bill but still wish to have a member of the state to sell alcohol. This is because there is evidence that selling alcohol involves someone other than the consumer. There is no reason why a person's name is relevant to anyone else. It has nothing to do with anyone else.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u79	You don't decide a name at the beginning.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u80	Hv. A senator says you don't decide the name at the beginning, i.e. Yeah. A senator mentions the point of children who have been taken over here. It belongs to a child protection law. Even if it's possible, I'm thinking a little out loud, putting a snooze in these songs that says that if a national record sees a reason to have a name under the Children's Institute, or some child welfare committees, it'll just be done. All right, then, shouldn't that be a fix? As I spoke in my speech earlier, which I gave in reply. A senator to listen to when he is available has nothing to do with these children. They were not designed to protect children, none of the laws on protecting children. This one law that does not have a name for everyone, including eight - year - olds, who should be brought to the fore as to what they want to call themselves and should also be kept clean in their lives as to what is relevant to others and what is not involved. [[Up front.]] This should answer a question. Senator. What's strange to me is why. A senator begins to talk about how others oppose freedom in other places when it is difficult to do so. A senator boasts himself, rightfully, to favor increased liberality in various categories, such as drug issues, something I consider to be in his favor, or the right to freedom of expression. A senator, too. So here he is against this case, but he sees someone else's double skin. [[Up front.]] Why would that be? Maybe it's just because of what you're doing. A senator is bored, as he said.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u81	A respectable president. I would like to thank you very much for the discussion on this important subject. It was particularly interesting to listen to talks at two different times. Councilmen, Helgi Hynns Gunns Hrafn of Gunnarsson, and Guðmundur of Thorsson son of Thorsson, were, in effect, better talks in support of this matter than my stories. I thank them very much for the input and support in this case. In order to cover the discussion, it just seems to me that this is a very strong matter of liberation against custody, which has appeared well in the discussions, to trust people to choose their own name, or children. It's not complicated. We should be able to do just that. There is nothing that should not be protected in current child protection laws, which will be able to be taken into consideration if the term is pronounced in such a situation that it is considered to be a cause of harm to the child. Second, many have been referred to the tradition or to the names of our tradition. It is good to bear in mind that it was formed here completely undefeated over the centuries. It was only after we decided to try to freeze the situation here in the next century that nothing can be changed. From now on, this tradition cannot continue to develop in the nation as it would like it to be at any given time. That's exactly what it's like to have tradition, that's routine, that's what has developed and developed and changed from time to time. As far as anything else is concerned, healings do not need such a special protection. It is interesting then to mix this conversation with other freedoms such as freedom to sell alcohol in places other than government stores or media freedoms. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's armour referred to him. And since he's already clocked in here into an answer, why not take a closer look at that discussion? In this regard, members of the Independence Party have held this category for decades, and they have not changed anything about the State Radio or the Alcohol and tobacco trade, except that it goes by the name of Vienna today. Other than that, the state monopoly remains the same. Of course, it's freedom issues, such as changes in human names. I do not understand, however, how it combines conservativeness in human names, but the love of freedom when it comes to alcohol or the State Radio, if that is the case. In simple language: Laws of human names have long passed away. There is no need, and no special urge, not the public good, that the State knows about individuals, whether their names, the length of their names, as mentioned here, the number of names, or other aspects of their title. I look forward to seeing how this situation will unfold during the winter session, but at least I am optimistic about the discussion here at the Senate Hall, that this should finally be possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u82	V.E.G. President. That's what people have been talking about, and why. paritaprevir So is Wazowski's Víglundsson, that we should trust people. I'm so afraid people in general are to be trusted. But most of all, I want to trust that with myself, not on behalf of others. We know that others, although we can change their names for us later, make them our own. If people talk about trust and find little danger in this, I'd like to know that I got sent from a good man the last names the Committee of Human Names rejected. These are the names: Satan, Danske, Clinton, and especially Pirati. These were the names they just turned down, just now. We know exactly where this is going. We know exactly what can happen. We know all the problems people will have. When people stop dealing with human names committees, they deal with child - welfare authorities. That's where the war begins. We only make the war. We're not solving any problems with this. I don't think it has anything to do with freedom. We're running for some kind of fun and trying to call ourselves liberal on that road. That's what I think I'm doing. And if we were really interested in being liberal, it was that I was allowed to have a little more control over myself, not to have more control over others as that one is doing. It is giving humans more freedom to rule over others. But when the time comes for us to control ourselves, there are so many people here in this room. We should think about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u83	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I think we're gonna do what. A senator may simply agree, giving people more freedom to control themselves. And the change presented here gives people just a significant increase in the right to control themselves, including the need to control themselves. to eliminate this amazing rule that you can only change your name once - you have one shot in that gun, and if you've ever wiped out your middle name, you can't have anything more to do with it. We have seen many Colombian events in families. Even after the law was changed and families allowed to rebuild foreign family names, a family member who had eventually wiped out an intermediate name could not be included in that Pulmia, for he had had his own chance. True, this change gives people greater freedom to control themselves, to have names of their own. It is true that this too is the proper time for parents to interpret their children's names. We trust the same parents to make a wide range of decisions on behalf of their children until their own children are intelligent and old, or they have the law of custody over their own matters. We have, I think, an adequate line of defense in child law and the child protection to intervene in case of gross neglect, or if parents make decisions that are a direct distraction or a failure to their children. I think it is as relevant to a name decision as it is to any other decision parents make or fail to take into account their children's affairs. I don't think it's anything to worry about.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u84	V.E.G. President. I can hear what you're saying. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson realizes that there may be some problem with jumping into so much freedom. That's why I think it's right to go over better. I'm a man now that I often like to take shorter steps than to take a giant leap when we're changing these things. I wondered, " Is it not a matter of consideration to make this happen and to go through it better instead of running into this freedom that will, as I said in my main speech, create a number of problems? ' I don't think people have thought of all the problems that may follow this transformation that some call freedom. Would it not be all right to take smaller steps as I have suggested with the RUS and the alcohol? Well, then it's much less important. Then people won't be exposed to this kind of shock. Imagine the shock if the NTVRs all of a sudden didn't exist. But if we started by letting someone else run a business next to ATVR. After 20 years, we may say, " If this store can be next to one of my friends, why can't it just be in a bonus? ' Then all of a sudden, it may not seem like a big step just to take it into the grocery store.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u85	A respectable president. This is now going to the General and Education Committee, which, as a result, has a custody of how much work is going to be done, changed, or not, as it says at 1st. If the committee does not complete this matter, and the senator will be in a serious crisis, I shall assist him in his crisis relief as well as possibly those officials who have to contend with an unlimited character number in the name and even have to re-program records of national records or that sex has become more than two in the Haushaus, the unsound trouble that might be followed by the fact that the statistical numbers are no longer limited to two things. [[Up front.]] We're gonna go for a second. I'm sure a senator is excited about how big these changes are going to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u86	Madam President. I would like to recommend a bill to correct the change in the genetic tax laws on fish farms. 10. Besides, this is where the carriers go. Councilmen Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, Ásmundur Friður Friðriksson, Birgir Ármannsson's son, Brístísdaldsdótir, Brubbur Níelsson, Haraldur Benediktsson, Jón Gunnarsson, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, Páll Magnússon, and Vilmiramur Árnason. As one report puts it, the aim of this bill is to consider the value of the property of a estate tax. First, the inheritance tax is suggested to be step - apart, 5% out of the first 75 million. K. from the tax stock of the morbum and 10% from the farm's tax stock over 75 million. K. Second, it is suggested that according to the index price of consumption, the tax count will be adjusted yearly. One example of taxation during the transfer of property between parties is credit. Other examples of such taxation are terms and credits. This type of taxes includes the establishment of tax responsibilities into treaties, the increase in income or property at the recipient's source, i.e. heir in the case of the genetic tax. Thus, credit is a tax that comes in addition to income tax. During the pressures of genetic taxation, it is necessary to keep in mind that there is a tax on money transfer and value between generations. The value of the tax stocks of the fiscal product has been taxed previously, including In the form of income taxes, fiscal taxes and property taxes. Because of this, the genetic tax involves bifolding. Is it true that the law on genetic taxes, No. 14/2004, it was decided that the genetic tax should be 5% regardless of the relation to a legacy other than that of a partner or a family mate is free of the tax. But the tax was raised to 10% by government law, No. 164/2010. The increase was part of a massive operation to obtain additional wealth in view of certain and difficult conditions in the state. Since then, the genetic tax has remained unchanged, i.e. Ten percent, despite the improvement of the state funds, so I don't take any deeper in this year, the economic situation has changed completely. This bill, as previously indicated, suggests that the tax per taxation of the genetic tax will be reduced in part by initiating step distinctions to reach levels of two, 5%, and 10%. The lower tax rate is worth value below 75 million and the higher tax rate over that amount. The change takes a step toward moving the soil to what it was for the economic events that followed the fall of business banks. If the bill is legal, it can be assumed that it has considerable money to reduce the government's income. According to budget for 2018, the total yield of the genetic tax is expected to be approximately 4.4 billion dollars. Let's take this year. Madam President. I suggest the bill be referred to Section 2. ... andwhat. The Economic and Business Committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u87	A respectable president. I wanted to be curious only about what is meant by this report and what was presented in the Sermon on the Mount. A senator says that the genetic tax is a tax that comes in addition to income tax. When I first read this, I thought, " Does a man have to pay his income tax plus a genetic tax? ' I took a look at it a little and found it a significant in the income tax law, 28. g., since I see no better than a successor being counted as no payable, the credit was paid for by inheritance tax. I'd like to ask you what. A senator's point is that I'm probably getting the wrong idea. [[Foreground on: Yes.]] Other than that, I wanted to ask you what. A senator, in view of the fact that this is a double taxation, according to the report, why. A senator would not suggest that the tax be laid down, which would be normal for me in the event of a double taxation. But I also have a question about how this is a twofold taxation. I'll get to that later.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u88	Madam President. That's a legitimate comment. The deposit as rain. A senator is witnessing, in addition to a income tax, is misleading and written on the person listed here. What I'm referring to, however, and what the report on double taxation says is that it is quite clear that the property involved, moving from generation to generation, are assets prepared from taxes and expenditures throughout their lifetime, whether it's a income tax when the person was making his own income, property taxes, capital taxes, etc. In itself, taxes have been paid, and we can get into a deeper discussion of that, of course, there is a dual taxation in other areas. But I don't think there's anyone involved in the fact that the genetic tax has a double taxation. [[The president calls.]] The question is, Is that abnormal? Is it unrighteous? Yes, I do, but I try to meet those who feel that it is normal to tax the exchange between generations in some way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u89	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Then I'd like to go into the double tax. Now I just don't know if double taxation is a formal term defined by some scholars, but I started to think about it a little, and I can't see it myself as a double taxation unless double taxation is north; it's actually more or less all double taxation, because, of course, money usually comes from somewhere else in the chain, they go between institutions and people, and beyond the way, you take a valuable tax or a income tax or some kind of tax. While some tax was paid earlier, I cannot necessarily see it as a double tax, because it makes me see no better than the fact that money is generally double taxed and multi taxed. Then I feel that the concept is rather meaningless. On the other hand, I can see a double tax in that if you pay for a pension fund and it's a income tax, as well as when you take it out. I understand that as a double taxation. I might call it a double taxation with the sale tax as it was, when, at each step of the sale, a re-cutting tax, in contrast to the value of the tax system. [[The president calls.]] But I think it's a little long to call it a double taxation. If there's any formal definition of that, I'm all one ear. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u90	Madam President. It may be me and what. A senator does not understand the word bifolding in the same way. Well, let's just keep up the discussion, that's all. True, I miss it. A senator has abandoned us on a financial and business committee. It would have been nice to have a place to talk about it and to wonder what a double tax is. However, that is quite correct. A senator here calls attention to the fact that bicultive taxation is common in many parts of the community. When a person is taking e.g. The decision to get an apartment is, of course, tax taxed, you're paying taxes and all kinds of taxes and fees, then when you give up the apartment for tax and rent it out, you start paying capital taxes on the value of the apartment, which is, in large part, the value of built-in taxation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u91	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying, "What?" Transporters welcome a group of Marxists, who have discovered here how to use step - by - step tax systems to increase the social equation. And although I may not have the authority to do so, I would also like to welcome them to a group of honor puffs for realizing that a government taxpayer's computer system does not cross even though what is often called a complex tax system with different tax charges. The only thing I would possibly put out on this matter would be that there are no more steps. Most of all, I wanted to ask you what. A senator from where this amount is obtained. 75 million now seem a bit much for an average person to leave behind at death. [[The president calls.]] Could the senator shed light on the appearance of this amount?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u92	Madam President. First, to the cash line. When I was preparing for this bill here in the spring months, I obtained information about the average price on an apartment floor here in Reykjavík, not downtown, but in the suburbs. That's about 70 to80 million. Of course, fortunately, people in Iceland may have a long life in which to build up so that they leave behind their possessions of over 70 to80 million. Of course, there are examples of much more possessions. But I'm just trying to get my hands on normal people. Regarding the stepwise tax system, I've talked about it, pointing out that there should be a flat tax per cent in the income tax system and a stifling person discount, which means that the tax steps will be as many as the taxpayers. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Clearly, I have more faith in a tax president than I do. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u93	A respectable president. It is always a question of which way you choose the starting point in this matter. I got information from the highest possible answers. The financial and economic ministers here appeared in the spring showing that the top 5% of the population, the richest 5%, has an average of 127 million in pure property. The largest percentage per 281 million on average and the top 0.1% less than one billion each. Should this not be taken the senator's idea of changing the tax system further, creating several healthy percentages to capture those who have the most in the community at the same time and we are protecting those who are able to pave together for this hideous suburb of the city that the senator dug up during springtime?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u94	Here, of course, is a fundamental diagnosis, and it's not surprising, between me and my wife. Senator. I'm in my heart against an inheritance tax. That is because I feel that taxes and fees have been paid and those who inherit these assets will continue to pay them. For the future, they will not release from taxes and taxes on property, capital gains, and so forth. But, hey. A senator speaks for some kind of estate recording. I'm never going on that trip with a what? Senator. He can be quite quiet over that in that boat I will never register myself.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u95	Mr. President. This matter is of utmost interest, and thanks to the fact that it is presented. I've been thinking about this and I'd like to ask you why. A senator would have wondered if he was watching this, i.e. The genetic tax system, more from the property that goes on to every successor than the sum of the entire farm. In this context at least If I think more of the methodology, at least I wondered about it, I hadn't actually put it in my mind, whether it could be made into some kind of change proposal or another bill on the genetic tax.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u96	Madam President. Thank you. A senator very much. The answer is yes. I thought about it very much. On the other hand, I had the right or wrong to go that way because it is not going to change in itself except to take a lower step. Of course, it is quite reasonable to believe that it is normal to consider the genetic taxes, not from the nest, but from what is involved to the heir. I think there must be some consideration for material treatment here at the council, and especially in the Economic and Business Committee, to consider it at any given moment. A senator rightly points out, and I thank him very much. I think I can just say, in my heart I agree, because it's a fair thing to go that way. There's a senator here. I think it's worth at least one Mass. going through what recommends it. I think there's more to it than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u97	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's huge interest in the answer and in agreeing with these ideas, that they're at least One Mass is worth as he put it. Then there is, and, of course, all of this is linked, whether the amount of money that has not been reimbursed has to be reimbursed, but it has remained the same for a long time. My general view is that somehow they try to make a part of something - now I'm not going to use the word normal - some average fan will not be taxed, what is involved in every successor. Should we say that it is not unnatural to believe that there can be a total of 75 to100 million people in the world's death population? There may be three successors, four. It is not the opposite of much taxation, though 10 million or so in exchange for each heir may not be a special reason to tax it on the part of the State. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u98	I think it's quite correct, Madam President, for good. A senator points out. I also think it's right to consider that the number of vacations now 1.5 million, whether to raise it or to a substantial increase, which is actually the third step. All of this comes into play. Last assembly had a problem. paritaprevir The Einarsson Björn initiative is to present a bill that would be useful for the prepaying of an inheritance. We might ask ourselves, " Do I need not have to meditate on it? ' I'm expecting that. A senator will restore that bill, and it can be handled in a uniform way. [[The president calls.]] Thank you. A senator is a great man for the tips.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u99	Madam President. I was going to direct the request to the carrier of this bill whether it had not been determined how costly this reduction would have been by costing the state's funds in the reduced income of an inheritance tax, which he informed us that this year was 4.4 billion, whether it had not been determined or whether he made no idea how much this amount of money would be reduced by the changes he makes here. I now worked to collect this tax for many years, and I feel that the majority of the dying people who come to treat this amount of money are 75 million. Those who are there may then be considerably higher, usually.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u100	Madam President. Sadly, now the possibility of a civilian senator making a cost estimate of the proposals he makes is limited. However, it is quite clear, and I think I have pointed out in my background that this will have a significant impact on the income of the state. I suppose that's at least Half of the anticipated income, i.e. they will be halved. You're right about what you're doing. A senator, according to my information, is the largest part of the dying that comes in exchange for this amount of money. Of course, it is not necessarily the total amount of money that is larger; it does result in much more. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u101	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. There are 11 members of the Independence Party on this bill, and I can see this as a sort of laser cleaning of the taxes that were dropped after a collapse in order to raise the income of the state's funds. I know because many of those who have lost their loved ones are extremely complaining and have complained about this tax when it rose from 5% to 10%. It was then loud in many places, even because people are naturally struggling to keep their real estate, which may be the only possession of the farm. I don't like this bill, but I'm just asking about the cost. I think the state fund is losing more than half.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u102	Madam President. It is clear in this bill's report that when the genetic tax was raised in 2010, the rise was part of a very massive operation to obtain a wealth of money in the light of certain and difficult circumstances. If the senator wants to call it a payment to let taxes and pay down in view of the better interests of the State, that is a luxuriant. Men could argue for such an increase. I drew attention to the fact that even a left control didn't think it was right to go up to 10% with this tax, but doubled it. It's better off with the government fund. I feel right then that when the state's budget is good, it will make it come back the curses that were raised or laid and that were certainly given sound reasons at the time in the face of difficult circumstances. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u103	Madam President. We're here to discuss a bill to legalize a set of genetic tax laws that I'd like to discuss. General members of the Independence Party, at least Quickly looking, moving. There's a lot of interesting things in the discussion of the genetic tax, what's that idea? The fact that genetic tax is some type of double taxation - I don't think that in itself is a solid argument. We've got it all over the system. In this way, respect tax reimbursement of money that has already been earned, so there is no evidence in itself. However, it is quite interesting in the historical context that throughout the centuries many have fallen into the grip of genetic taxes. Probably the most famous John Stuart Mill. That's exactly what he suggested, like what happened. A senator is suggesting here, progressian genetic tax. The idea was to limit genetics because he felt that the Heirs had little right to gain a fortune or a lot of possessions that might have been built in the hundreds of years before the person had received property. Mill says, with permission from the President: ▪ Glory is merely a means to achieve a purpose, not a purpose in itself. Like all other property rights, inheritance can be the opposite of mankind's purpose. You should remember that Mill writes this in the middle of the 19th century, but his viewpoint may have changed since then. In the 21st century, precisely French author Thomas Piketty writes about the same thing, speaking about it, based on the fact that people completely inherited high levels are, in fact, dangerous to the community image that Western communities have built up, i.e. little by little, the gap will shift between those who have very much and those with very little. Therefore, it is in itself wise for the community to tax and actually use Progressant genetic tax to counteract this trend. I wanted to throw this into the discussion because I find it interesting to contribute this tax, this step change. Of course I realize that the purpose of the bill is to get out of the current system. Likely, this would cost a wealth of government something on a third billion or so. So strange is the natural thing about this that one estate of 10 billion changes the farm that year, and it's actually never possible to predict it. That's why it's a little peculiar, i.e. In many respects, the income of the GDP is somewhat peculiar from year to year. I agree with that. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson said that perhaps it would be better to have more steps. I agree with that. paritaprevir Jón Steindór's son Valdimarsson said that if we can talk about it in this context, perhaps there would be material to raise a little of the so - called vacation market. There we're talking about 1.5 million, that I think, or something like that before the estate. In large families, there are not particularly large amounts per person. Hence, it may be normal to have a slightly higher prenup. I'd also like to agree with the views that have appeared here or at least they think up, they look up, they're confused. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason came in earlier. Perhaps it is normal to use the amount of a high - price individual as a reference rather than a universal value in a deathbed. Let us take one person who inherits a whole estate. Then there is a big difference between whether he or she owns 50 million or if they divide between three or four parties, so maybe it's more reasonable to aim at than this. I look forward to having a place to say. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason toy. The Economic and Business Committee on this matter. I know we'll have some good talks there.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u104	V.E.G. President. A special phenomenon is the credit. I was a very diligent collector of the state's funds on genetic tax 35 years ago. Then the rules were completely different from today. At that time, a spouse had to pay for a personal tax. This has changed. There are, of course, all kinds of views on this subject. Some say, " It's just a means of possession, it's income like any other income, and it's supposed to be taxed like that. ' It's a property proposition. All property contributions are taxed. That's exactly the point. So, of course, there is a point of view, and that was the reason why a spouse was no longer taxing, that these are property that a husband and wife met together even though something may have been registered as a marital property of one of them. There's a lot of stuff in there. Then there's also the view that the family, i.e. Should-heirs, should not pay a genetic tax, this is part of the family's building blocks of unity. It's all a point of view. But I'm on this bill because it's being rewinded from a special situation that is no longer present when the tax was raised. I think, under changed circumstances, it's right to go back this way, I think this is a good bill. But I totally understand all those views. All of this can be reasoned more fully. I've never been so close to this idea that we're giving up our income or throwing away a fortune, a government fund. So I look at it that it's just those views that should apply, what kind of unity is family, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u105	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The armoury of Níelsson's son answers. This is actually a very interesting discussion, i.e. In some ways, as someone would say, an existian debate, what to be the opposite of tax recovery, and what not, how to make money, if you can call on genetic resources, should be taxed and by what means. It is obvious that some American community has come to agree that it is not just like other income, it is quite clear. Eight years ago, if I recall correctly, 5% is removed to 10%, and this low-cost level is set, so to speak. There's a point of view here. What I'm thinking is, at least I look at it. to some extent on the genetic tax system that would be used to keep the social sparkling process going, i.e. waning between the most rich and the least wealthy. That's why I think it's important that there's a step at the bottom, that people don't pay out very little. For those who receive the least of this money, it may be the most important thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u106	V.E.G. President. It comes as no surprise to me that the VGs see this as an opportunity for property balance, to fight for all kinds of equations. I'm looking at this all different. Of course, I make a distinction between what this is, who is to inherit, how it happens. Is this part of a family now or is this an inheritance to an unwanted party, even if it is a legal heir or not a duty heir? I distinguish all of this from being far more inclined to view it as a direct income when Jónsson in town inherits 10 billion. That's right. But I think there's a good conclusion on this bill and I think we can enjoy it. But I think this conversation can be completely extended, and I'll be more comfortable with this tax like all the other government agencies. What is normal in doing that, what is righteous? I don't want to look at this as a device to prevent anyone from having too much in the opinion of someone or anything like that. I want men to walk alike. Of course, there may be differences in the status and naturality of humans to pay different taxes, depending on their relationship with their successor. Hence, it was a great struggle to prevent a spouse from paying a genetic tax. Actually, it was just taxing the spouse herself.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u107	Mr. President. I still thank you for the counterargument and again that I find the discussion interesting and speculative. Senator. I can quite see the evidence that the taxprofen should vary depending on whether it is a Grade 1 heir or a Grade 2 or more or even longer, that a person inherits a fortune without actually having worked at any time with any rights to them. If we continue to peer into the community, it is estimated that more than half of Europe's billionaires inherited their wealth, in fact, did little to do anything but be born into a wealthy family. This has not been so for a long time. But again: If the gap between the rich and the poor continues to grow, and we simply lose control of it, I think that genetic tax is just one good tool to try at least to hold back a little bit.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u108	Mr. President. I've been listening to this discussion and reading through the bill and the media coverage of it. If correctly understood, as shown in the media, this bill, if it becomes legal, will reduce half the amount of property worth below 75 million dollars. People nod here who support the bill, so it seems to be... [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Well, I thought that was it. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson supported the bill, I listened to the talk, and felt so positive, quoted by John Stuart Mill and others. But he doesn't support that bill. I would like to enter this discussion and hope that it would be. The transferer, Óli Björn Kárason, is listening. The world's debate over how it is good to taxate or to reevaluate the world's tax system in the light of the great changes that have taken place in this 21st century, including those taking place in the 21st century. Because of the information technology revolution, but because of other things. This is their front - page photo, for example, on the foreground or foreboding of August 9, that the basic tax change - I'm just going to translate it directly, without reading it in English, even though it is permitted - can increase economic growth and make communities more fairer, no matter what percentage of the country's production takes into the tax system. Happily, the principles that the rich can use to produce a good tax system are clear. It says, if anyone can help in this hall, I need to get the translation in English in ◯taxes information about target rents, taxation should focus on, ◯target rents, do you think of what it means in economic terms? Hv. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy knows, and I'm gonna ask him and get it straight. Three points are mentioned, that was the first. Adding to point two is the maintenance of positive motivations, not creating negative incentives, and reducing activities through the tax system. Number three is that it should be difficult to get away from the taxes, that those to whom taxes are due cannot easily escape them. These are the three principles. Therefore, all countries, continuing in this article, should tax both possessions and genetics more. We need to note that this is The Economist's lead who is a very right - to - right magazine, a liberal policy, some would say that their new liberal, but they point out that if they intend to rethink the tax policy, this is a very important thing to look to because of these premises. The article on these taxes continues to be unpopular, but mostly highly efficient. Then I'd like to establish the IRS policy of the Independence Party, at least in the time of the government, Sigmundur, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson Gunoll, when the tax system was being changed, and then it was the highest. Bjarni Benediktsson's secretary for financial matters. It was then said that the reason for reducing the step between the top and below the value of taxation levels was that it was more efficient. It was being canceled because it made the tax system more efficient. I believe that the Independence Party continues to have a strong focus in its tax policy that the taxes are efficient. And what The Economist points out here is that the genetic tax is a highly efficient tax, actually one of the most efficient. It continues in the article that in a world where possessions create a particular whale dragon, which crosses between generations, such taxes are also very desirable. They mention that it would be a highly conservative but positive first step toward moving toward the 21st century taxation, where taxes are more efficient, harder to escape, and maintain a positive motive, to cancel the reductions in inheritance tax. This bill is suggested to reduce the inheritance tax. The Economist suggests something else. Those who want to study this can only pick up the magazine or go online to find these suggestions and see if they agree with them or not. This bill is suggested to reduce the genetic tax, but The Economist, in its overall policy on reimbursement of the 21st century tax, suggests that it should be stopped, restored to the reduction of the genetic tax. This is something that those who are interested in a tax system that is efficient and difficult to get away with and that encourages positive motives. Then we have a little bit further down here in the article on an important factor. If we are going to lower a tax that is efficient and difficult to escape, as the genetic tax is, can we not be reducing some other tax that is less efficient? It needs to be prioritised. What taxes are to be dropped? This is especially important in view of the 21st century, where self - efficiency is increasing, we have robotic reforms, such as. self-sustaining cars, they are robots of nature, or all sorts of algorithms or programs that have begun to write financial news, start looking for judgments, etc. This trend continues, and the fourth industrial revolution will change jobs in that way in order to improve the paying of well - paying jobs today, since these qualities do not require the use of computers and cooling. And the low-paying job is done or disappeared. Then it says that as the labour market continues to polarize amongst those who have high wages and all of them had to look at the income tax, it should be low, or even negative, for those with the lowest wage. In their policy, The Economist says that when it comes to a reevaluation of the 21st century tax system, we are to rise precisely if something is the genetic tax and we are to consider reducing taxes to others, and they specifically mention the income tax. It seems to me that this bill is going completely the other way. I hope this is going to be done well in the Economic and Business Committee, and these views discussed because it's the big talk that's going on in the world right now. This has not proved to be good for the Icelanders when we try to find the bike and do not take in the picture what men are thinking out in the big world. I believe that these views will be taken into account, and I don't believe that the Independence Party will support the lower taxes that are difficult to escape, easy to collect, and effective instead of reducing other irreprehensible taxes, as it has been the policy of the Independence Party to have the taxes efficient.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u109	A respectable president. This is the kind of thing that I would like to make up my mind after the committee's study has been submitted to the committee. I suppose there will be more than one of them in this matter of taxation, and this tends to be normal for a member of Congress. I don't know it as well as I do. 8th yrs We're out of Suðvest. " Jón Þór Ólafsson, I have to admit, but I have some speculations that I would like to throw forward with them in advance that this is done before any committee has taken place. I've had a bit of a problem with this concept of fiscal tax in a broad context, especially with the way we view society as either the left or the right. Historically, that question is very much addressed to class distinctions as a phenomenon. I don't like taxes. I don't think taxing is a goal. I don't see an opportunity here to tax or something like that. On the contrary, I prefer to use the tools that are already there to tax taxes rather than invent new ones, e.g. for travel-consuming. I don't quite understand why people think it's so important to create new fees, new types of fees and taxes, when there's a general tax in this country like income tax, money tax, capital tax, etc. But when it comes to a genetic tax, I see it in much more context than as a trust fund. I actually see him very little in connection with the money of the state. I see him much more in relation to the phenomenon of class distinctions, and especially when we're talking about generations and superabundantly a lot of money. I'm a parent. I have parents. For my parents' sake, I hope they go before me. In fact, I'm so lucky to have two grandparents, even though they're almost 38 years old. I'm a very lucky man in this regard. But I'm pretty sure one day I'm gonna have to see after some genetic tax. And I don't think there's anything wrong with that. It doesn't torture me at all. I think that other factors, in due course, will be more of a mind to me. But what I find a little difficult about this case is that I feel that some who are set up in genetic laws are subject to laws other than others, for example, that a mate receives one third of a inheritance, that a spouse has to pay a loan, that I think it's a little weird - now, now. A senator seems to correct me so that I'm not. If not, it is good. At least I don't like the idea if I think about it that way. That children are paying for a genetic tax, I think, in a hurry of time, I find it normal, with the notice that I've assumed that he was there, this tax, and have not imagined a world without it, I must say. But then I wonder: Okay, maybe a parent leaves some tens of millions of people in the form of real estate and maybe some reserve it's built up, maybe 75 million; I don't think that there's any absurd talk for someone who's worked hard to build up property over his life and has earned a lot of money. During a lifetime of work, money can be paid well if well used and if the person is in a position to collect it and manage his finances. But then I might think of something like 75 billion or just 7.5 billion or 750 million. As soon as I'm starting to think about these numbers on some major scale, I'm starting to see a straight class distinction, and I think, " Some generations? Okay, okay. To inherit a parent, perhaps the parent has gathered all this wealth because the parent wanted to leave something rich for his children, whom I fully understand and respect, that there is something people want to do and should be able to do. But then I think, " What about the fourth generation? ' What about the great-grandchildren who are billionaires because some individual sold a huge amount of oil or invented the electric car or something? I don't know. I don't mind people being rich. Sometimes I say like some right men: I'm not against riches, I'm against poverty. But the reason why I consider myself to be as inferior is that I believe that too much difference between the poor and the rich leads to power problems, and that's where I put a question mark, and in fact, it's just against it. In short, it is class distinctions. The fact that some group or people have become so super rich, something I don't care about, that they have some kind of direct control over society, I don't feel so good about it, and that's why I call myself equal. In other words, it's not because of fairness, much rather for freedom-clerc and equilibrium reasons, that I think very important that we be clear. If I put myself completely in the right person's right, I feel that people should be allowed to enjoy the fruitage of their labor when they make something to enjoy it. In this regard, I find nothing overly tempting to raise taxes to the point that it is almost a form of property or something similar; with the premonition that we need taxes to support our community and all that. But when I think of the fourth generation of unorthodox wealth, which that person did nothing to gain, I also do not understand the rationality. I don't see how it's good for anyone except this lucky person, who probably didn't even know the person who got the wealth and what it meant. The person who gained wealth could hardly have thought of his grandchildren. Hardly. Or what? Is it? I think that's all right, I think I just think it's desirable, that money is staying with the generation to some extent. Whether it's a tax that makes it doing it or not is a minor matter in my mind. It's just the only thing to see that it's used for income balance in general, i.e. This old idea of using the tax system directly to increase the equation. It's more speculation. I'm not saying that we should confiscate our inheritance or that we should probably raise this tax. These are just the variables that are fighting for me when I think about this. But if I'm a little more involved in the matter, i.e. The idea of lowering this 10% tax to 5% in terms of a tax base of 75 million or less, if I really look at it, I'm also asking about priorities, as well. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson passed over earlier. If we were to say that we would want to lower taxes on the amount of money that would be made by this change, I would never choose this tax first. I'd always choose another tax. I would raise a personal discount or something like that. And as a matter of fact, before I went to lower taxes, I would probably try to finance a number of support groups in the state that have to be financed more effectively. I come up with things that I don't feel necessary to put on some list in connection with this case. But I'm not gonna have this any further, more dignified president. I'm just looking forward to seeing the committee inscriptions, which I'm assuming will be in the plural, and I'll discuss this with 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u110	Mr. President. I recommend here for bill to legalize health insurance legislation, No. 112/2008, with subsequent changes. The importers with me on the bill are why. The members of Ingi In Jónsson, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Bjarkey Gunnarsdóttir Gurnardótnar, Kolbeinn Otcarsson Magnúsdóttir, Lilja Rafney, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynjolfótir, and Steinunn Þóra's Árnadóttir. The bill is rather downplayed, as is always a turning point, but it is still of great importance. In fact, with the bill it is to ensure that law is a law of the home minister to set it as terms of contract agreements involving health care providers that there is no profit, the business is what is called English, by permission of the President, ◯non-profect. This is of interest to many extent because the text of the current law in itself implies that a minister of de facto is permitted to set this stipulation, i.e. It's not against him. V.E.G. the current health minister, Kristján Þór Júlíusson, set these conditions when a private health care center was negotiated in the capital area in 2016. Since then, this so - called ◯non-profibations in the contracts has been extended to other regional health care centers in the capital area, and now all the private clinics in the capital area have been expanded with this directive in their own agreements. In this regard, it may be said that health insurance was actually using a rule of 90, it would not be to negotiate with similar parties each time in a similar way. So we who bring this matter feel very important to take away any doubt about it, that this warrant is actually in the law. There has been a lot of discussion about health care and medical care during the past year, and some of the product of this discussion is the bill. Transporters feel that the use of limited resources in the health - care system is not to be used, as such, in order to make money out of health - care companies. Like what? Councilmen no doubt know the precedent for these so - called Šnon-profits in many countries, both east and west. There are other factors that arise in this regard, for example, that the Icelandic health - care system is very large and extensive in Icelandic standards and has a lot of money to do. However, it is equally clear that at the market where we can say that there is a major market failure because the position of the sellers and buyers is always so uneven. Of this, scholars have written written essays, and I think that in itself it is not controversial that the seals and buyers'status are uneven. Therefore, it is not really possible to say that the provision of the service for some market-based grounds in the traditional sense of contracts. It's natural. It's like a whisk. Councilmen also know the value of many service contracts that have not been made in these forms. Therefore, it is very important that in the text there is a provisional law that ensures the payment of the contracts, that the state is in line with the agreements it has already made, since the transfer of this bill is not in any way or any crusade, it is primarily to ensure that a minister has this authority. In the community there is a general agreement that health care should really be a kind of public right, i.e. it should be equal for all the people of the country in service, and all the people should be able to apply it. In addition, much of the community has to do with the fact that it is in public business. Thus, in a survey conducted by BSRB in 2015, more than 80%, 83% of the population thought that the hospital should be primarily publicized, clinics had over 77%, nursing homes 65%, children's dentists, etc. The survey also stated, and it is important to maintain it, that the country itself does not see any unnaturality in the fact that a part of health care is in business, since the bill does not deal with it; it is not about that, because, in the course of time, it would still be expected to be continued to be available to a health care provider who would want to do business with the government. [[Up front.]] There's nothing wrong with that. There is nothing wrong with the fact that these same health professionals who work by these contracts can pay themselves a reasonable amount of money. There's no problem with it being somebody, we can call it profits, of this business, but ◯non-profit◯ assumes that the profits are directed into the company to ensure that they continue to grow and grow and grow and are rather directed toward improving the interests of those workers who can work there, improve the facilities that the workers can do, or improve the services they provide for the company. That's the difference. I've been working in the health system for many years, both in this so-called ◯non-protstas ~ and in the Unfor-prots-prots-adversity to which I'm sorry, President, these are terms I'll soon use in my speech, but I'm going to have a profit and not a profit to explain. They're everywhere. There are a lot of these so - called nonprofit business companies in Icelandic health care. Hv. Congress members know medical institutions, such as the U.S. National Institutes of Health, the Nurse's Hospital, etc. There are a lot of these types of companies, but there are also companies who are fired without being defined as ◯non-profats, or not profit, but are, in fact, but have not been able to define themselves as such. It's a little important what the difference is. I have not felt that there is a call for money in the community, since the state is paying money or paying money in health care. At least I haven't heard it. I have, however, heard views that may include. has been heard in this Assembly Hall and in the community that it is likely that the State is involved in the same private business with service agreements. I don't mind. That's perfectly normal. I believe, by the fact that the Minister has this warrant, it is even. can ensure better use of the limited resources available. Imagine that, huh? Councilmen, if we were to allow it or if we were to keep in mind that it would only be a matter of business to be placed on health care contracts, where should we draw the boundaries? 1%? 2%? 3, 5, 10? Or should we not pull a line? Should we just care less about how the government deals with a service that I think we all agree that we all have the same access? If we were, for example. ................................ Did we really enjoy the money we had? I don't think so. I think we'd much rather that U.S.A. could care for 10% more clients. That's at least My food. It's important that it comes out, and I'm often going to reiterate it both in this discussion and elsewhere that we're talking about a source, we're talking about explaining the law text in this regard, that it's actually allowed. I reiterate what I said before, To at least One health secretary has already applied a law such as this stuck in the law, i.e. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. former health minister, Kristján Þór Júlíusson. That's why it's very important that we keep the discussion on that plan, let's say, that we're talking about what the bill really is about. That's what people in this council hall have claimed, at least By all means, that left green would forbid all private business, left green would be against the private operating of the health system, that left green would be enemies of all people who had a reasonable salary, etc. I repeat, it's totally wrong. But we do not see as political movements why the State is paying money in health care companies. It is our purpose with this bill that the minister has this warrant and that it is clear. However, there is no requirement for a minister to use it every time he does this. There may be an event where it is not even possible. It's totally done. There are companies at the market who provide essential services and may be the only companies at markets that provide this type of service and are profit - consuming. Then it would be silly to enter a law that you can't negotiate with such a company. That would be silly. But that's not what we're asking, either. I look forward to having a place to speak with the council on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u111	Mr. President. I'd like to start the first round, because I have two, to think about what's going on in a paper with this bill, that the state's market failure in favour of the sealers. I kind of disagree. The market failure is because there is only one buyer. The fewer the sellers are, the greater the likelihood that the buyer will not use the money as best he can. I would have thought that in this situation, rather than increasing the resources of this one buyer to behave at will, so to speak, we encouraged him to behave as responsible, making the best use of all our resources. I was sitting at a social committee meeting this morning with just what I needed. A senator at the highest. A minister reviewed his ideas or expected a proposal for a hearing on health policy she is working now, and I like how she works the idea. She stressed that this was not a political document, that there was a key subject for management and coordination, providing health care, financing, payment, payment systems, buying and so on. Then political pressure would follow, which is the plan of action that will ever follow. That's how it works. Then we come to the first question. In all sincerity, I ask myself why. Councilman: Why do members of the council come to the top? Minister at this stage with this suggestion that speaks directly into the expected Action Programme? This, in my opinion, undeniably reduces the credibility of the Supreme Court. Minister is actually putting forth a policy in which no Polish pipe vision is in, so I testify to myself, and I intend to do all this very professionally. That's kind of the first question. I'm asking why. A senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u112	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Fridik's Friðriksson for the answer. The fact that there is a medical market emergency is not my idea. It's the idea of almost all the scholars who have written about the medical market as the buyers and seals market, i.e. That those who buy the service, I accept the users, are always in a hopeless position against the seller.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u113	You're talking about... the user...
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u114	Yes, they are always in a desperate position toward the seller or a difficult situation because he is selling products that they need vitally to buy. To this end, that view can also apply to a large buyer, such as the State. For one thing, the marketing authorisation has been made. You can't compare this. If there were no such thing, we wouldn't have a public health system, health insurance, and all this, it'd be just like any other product on the market, but it's not like that, and it's not for good reason. Why now? ... isa question. Senator. Hv. To clarify this, I would like to mention that since 2003, if I recall correctly, this has been in the direction of the left green, i.e. Our utmost policy is that we want to make sure there's no pre-protts in the health system. We don't make it here. But I can assure you what. A senator for a integrity minister in order to bring up a proper health policy that can be achieved regardless of the health management of the health system.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u115	Thanks for the answer. I'm not much closer, but I don't think we're gonna settle this right now. I'd like to use my time and then go to the next question. In fact, I have to make a comment to those words, a business - important service. I know a number of health - care providers who have put heart and soul, personal resources, time and energy, in building up public health services in our own business. It's an old story and a new one. These people are taking an enormous risk. Is your idea, huh? A senator and a partner in the left green, that in such a business, you must not - I can't understand it differently - you can give a profit, e.g. to cover losses and make up for investments? If this is an open source, will it be possible to trust that something will happen, will there be any changes in circumstances where the company passes minus, gets run on the wrong side of the line, if the state just comes in and pays it up? Will the State lay down the weight of every person in a private market because the business cannot give them the rest of the money that he or she lives under that investment? Will the State have all the regular items for all health care if this continues? How does it work? It's really complicated. There's nothing different. I make serious comments that this is being thrown into the big picture where it's talking about trying to make peace with health policy and then there's a plan of action.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u116	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. That's right. That's right. The senator, a large number of examples of private members, both partners and individuals, investing in health care and serving well. The senator and I agree completely that they serve as a very important part of our health. There is also no one talking about that these companies cannot continue investing in their companies and that they cannot continue to calculate the investment costs into the agreements they make. The difference we're talking about is that they can't take advantage of money, that they can't figure out what money is worth, and that they take it out and really let the government finance it. I think a bit of a basic point is that when companies are well fired and when things go well, they have the expected opportunity to do better with their employees, improve their facilities, raise their salary, increase their service, etc. That's the basic idea. It has nothing to do with whether a person is in some difficult investment. In private business men themselves must be responsible for their decisions; they themselves must be responsible for the agreements they make.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u117	It's...
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u118	If they are so bad at making deals that they eventually lose, the natural nature of the company is more private, that you just have to accept it, and I guess they have to walk over their own money or the company's capital, as it is done in ordinary businesses. [[Up front.]] This is not something that should be taken into consideration, so just because they make deals with the state, they should be quick to keep their business free and be careful that things are going right. [[The president calls.]] It's not like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u119	President. I can't help but feel that this case is just a distasteful reflection of private business in the health system and even a certain dislike of private business in general. The government buys services and products from a number of health - care providers as well as from a number of other factors, road construction, education systems, and so on. Then you wonder only at the concept of equality and employment freedom, and I would like to hear a point. A senator in it. Why is it possible for a person who has even invested in his medical education - and who wants to make good use of that knowledge to work, including the results of his education? for the State - don't take advantage of that kind of activity the way everyone else does selling goods and services to the public? And it's not just that way. When it comes to the health system itself, I would conclude that half of the government's cost to health would depend on the law of these ideas. Parliamentaries of this matter, i.e. deal with health care professionals or specialists. When it comes to all purchases - sales, appliances, renting property, maintenance of property, property design, law - enforcement services, accounting services, or God knows what - the economics are absolutely baseless. Then I wondered: " Is there any other money in the medical system that is going into this business besides those who buy special health care professionals directly?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u120	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson is opposed. You're right next door. A senator that the state buys goods and services from many sources. But the difference between health care and a variety of other services is that it is instinctively different. The Senator knows this in many international agreements that it is common for health care to be taken out of parentheses simply because it is instinctively different from any other service. That is why we view it differently. That is why we are designed to create a special system here in Iceland for payment on health care that we do not feel is needed for many other services that the government buys. It's not by chance. Senators hang very strongly on the fact that we want to ban money, want to ban profits in health care or health care. No, we're not forbidding it, and we're not interested in banning it. On the other hand, we want the agreements made by the State to serve with these individuals not to be the opposite of interest or profit. That's the difference. If there is a health care or health care provider who is in business and who does not negotiate with the State, no one can forbid it. But it is about the service contracts and the profit of them. For other medical groups as indicated. A senator only entered: As the senator likely realizes, so can they, for example, be the case. Experts, physical therapists, and others on a similar level of business, but this must be the assessment of the minister and the Ministry and the health insurance at any given time whether there is a reason to apply it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u121	President. I'm not any closer. It seems to me that in this spirit it is in good condition that I make progress in building hospitals, selling equipment into hospitals, giving law - enforcement services to hospitals, giving accounting services to hospitals, or selling drugs into hospitals - but I cannot profit from selling my expertise as a doctor or nurse into a hospital or in the general health store of the state. I think this is a reflection of what my knowledge is: We have an official health system and we all agree on this public health system, i.e. We always want access to the health system, and we want the government to pay for our own health - care programs. The only thing that matters to the State that the only buyer of this service can be mentioned is the cost of this service. What kind of buyer is the state? What is the power of the State to use as its sole market buyer, to move forward as the most practical agreements and as the best use of public funds? I feel that there's a question of thought: You can hear people in the same categories talking about the fact that you're not allowed to go into private business, and you don't know what the public service costs. We never compare the cost of this operation with what it costs for the individual person. Is it not the most important thing that the government will use all available means to achieve the most efficient purchases of this service, such as other government trades or services?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u122	Mr. President. Again with the buyer's verser. In health care, the state makes large contracts for the purchase of services. A senator knows as well as I do that the decision on who is not able to serve in the state is the best. She's not lying there. She's lying next to the seller. [[Up front.]] The supplier is in this case, i.e. One who provides the ministry, the health care professional, always in a superior position to the buyer, when it comes to these services. Not that a person buys health care as if buying furniture or a car or something like that, buying such a service out of need. This ministry is essential. They buy it from some source of necessity. That's why there's a fundamental difference, and it's really the fundamental difference. The Senator asks why a person can benefit from building buildings for the Kingdom that should be used even under health care and cannot be benefited by providing that service. That's exactly why the market failure is, I think, accepted in all the main health - care textbooks, i.e. that the relationship between the buyer and the seller is so special that there is reason to ensure that there is a difference between views other than profit.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u123	V.E.G. President. Of course, I wondered much about what this bill is for. It's quite clear, and it's always been clear, and no one's been messing with it, that a minister makes these contracts. It can provide any condition, e.g. about the ◯non-pro fat, or the non-profit drive, which is a term which is completely inexplicable. You have to figure out what a business is. If I start a health business, it's some kind of basic cost. I guess I need to take a loan to buy the tools and tools I need. It's an investment. Then, of course, there is a fixed cost of business, and then there is pay. That's what this is all about. Of course, any profit then to be gained is nothing more than wages. We may think they're high. There are many ways to make profits; having a high or relatively low monthly wage and by the end of the year, you will pay for the rest. Hv. A senator spoke earlier of using the profits to pay better pay to the people who work at the posts and profites exactly that. I think it's just some picketing with a word. Of course, this is part of the ideologies that are all right to favor, that there is nothing to be done with private business in health care. You know, you feel that way, but I may be exaggerating a little bit. But putting one of these conditions in a contract is very special. If I were a health minister, I wouldn't want to trade a business for loss of business. I'd like to make a deal with a profit-profit company. The nature of the case. I wouldn't be interested in paying off the loss of my business. Of course, it's not supposed to be about this. This is not supposed to be about ◯non-protts, or non-profit. This is exactly what the subject is about: What does the buyer, the State, get for the money? If I was to be a health minister, I'd be making a deal with some private company in a town, I wouldn't be making it over my head for service unless I had the feeling that it was better and less expensive than I get in the hospital, if the hospital or the government can't handle it. I wouldn't make any other deal. So I don't understand this problem, it's totally incomprehensible to me. Neither can I agree that health care is something different from any other service. What is instinctively different about buying products from large companies even on Wall Street? The person who then gives the same medicine to the patient must not benefit from it, the person who treads the medicine into it. Will they try to say that these two differences differ in nature? That's hardly a point difference. I think people should stop thinking about government business and/or private business. It's all about where the taxpayers get a good service for as little money as they can. [[Up front.]] If it's in a hospital, there's no business to negotiate with. But if a private company can offer me, at the auction even, something that I consider beneficial for taxpayers - cheaper and even better service - that I just do. It doesn't matter to me whether the person can pay any interest at the end of the year or not. It just doesn't matter to me. That's what's key in this. I'm not trapped in the fact that we have to deal with doctors all over the house. I don't have a prince's gesture. I have no interest in emptying the hospital inside. I want to have a strong hospital with a strong service in good relations with the university - this is now the state's game - I want a good university hospital. This does not mean that all services performed by the hospital are inexpensive, that it cannot be handled better elsewhere, but that is certainly not all. I just want to look at these facts. I'd like to take care of the taxpayers' money. That's how I get the best service. It doesn't bother me that Dr. Jón Jónsson can pay 10 million in cash at the end of the year, perhaps because he only took 700,000 bucks. In a month's pay, and then he pays the rest for his money. It may be - it doesn't matter. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] No, it's not like that. He has to pay his taxes for his money. The company has also paid taxes, people forget that. You always think that 20% of the capital tax is less tax. He's not lower - or 22%, he's in 22%. [[Up front.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress]] There was a good correction at the time. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason. There are many men on the left wing who think 22.5% of income tax is less tax. [[Up front.]] It's just a big misunderstanding. In fact, they have capital tax from no income. There's another discussion. That's how I want to get close to it, huh? paritaprevir Ólafur Gunnarsson. I'm here to believe that we're not supposed to get caught up in this, that it's gonna be just like some religion, that we're not supposed to have a government business or not a private business. It is all about our reaching favorable units to carry out a certain service for us. Sometimes it's in the hospital, sometimes by expert doctors. Sometimes it can be something. And then it's okay. I don't fuck with the fact that it pays money for something I don't know. I'm also absolutely certain that most of the profits these companies make have more investments, new equipment. True, the companies want to get paid at the expense, all right. We don't have to worry about this. It's just a nice mix with us, and we're always supposed to look for the best costs every time we get that much tax on it. We're always going to look for the best, most practical, most novelty, etc. I know that many people think that all this service must be done by the State. Of course, that is for political reasons and perhaps emotional reasons too, and it's all right. But you can be sure of that, okay? Councilmen, that it is not always the cheapest to run things for yourself, especially in the case of a huge string where people have little perspective on what's going on, what's going on, etc. - and maybe because they have no interest in being more industrious or making more money because they always have the same reward. Hence, when a person operates his own business, when long hours and hard work increase his income, he may be much more successful. We can make money on that, state funds, taxpayers. We can make a lot of money from that. Of course, the bill such as it is nothing, nor does it change anything for us in itself. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] But that still contains a significant political statement that I am actually baited into. Of course, the bill that it closes does not cover for any negotiations but gives the source, etc. Somehow you have the feeling that the current health minister would make good use of that information, perhaps rather than the former, who did. But that's okay too. You can have your opinion on this, I totally understand, but I just don't want to get caught up in what I call Crevices. It's emotional, that political, too. If we are caught in it, we could not be good enough for the taxpayers. I think we should be able to settle for the fact that this is about the quality of our ministry and what we get for the money.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u124	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I'll tell you what. A senator says I'm, like, a dog. A senator, trying to understand all of this. I actually understand this particular bill well, because that's what it's like. A senator went over, no terrible big or complex bill, but the underlying ideologies I'm trying to understand a little bit better here in conversation, and there's nothing very good about it. What I feel about how this needs to be depends on our having a health system that is also available to and inexpensive, i.e. so that people can afford to use that service and the State. How would that be? A senator will answer that question? I suggested, in the subjunctive process, check that by profiting from this government - bought service, there is an inevitable increase in money from taxpayers into it. [[The president calls.]] Can the government save money if the medical facility that provides a government service is being given extra profits? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u125	V.E.G. President. I don't think you're right, man. A senator, considering that if someone returns some profit, receives something for his work, it is the loss of the state, or the loss of the taxpayers. It's not supposed to be this way. Then you should just fire it yourself. You can't negotiate this unless you want to make sure the government pays the loss of your business. There is, however, no interest in that. We can't watch it like this, I don't think, any more than when we buy medicine. There are so many things we do. The problem is that we always take medical care, i.e. that if I do that wound of someone, wrap it, and put it in terms of all other rules, it's not part of some market, it's just something completely different. [[The president calls.]] It is not everything else, though the government is the buyer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u126	A respectable president. I'm committing the sin here to ask about things I don't know the answers to, as sometimes warned. I just admit I don't fully understand. I may well be asking some foolish questions, but I'm going to go for it. It's just gonna have to. As I see it, we like to have a health system that most people usually use, that is, in general, what is being used, because we're expected to have the same access and pay the same thing. Maybe I'm having some wrong thoughts, and I think I'll also go back to the sponsors of the bill when the discussion ends. What I don't think is quite the opposite of a vision. A senator is saying that people are volunteering because they are against private business. I think that would just offer a different bill. This special relationship mentioned earlier, between the client and the health department, can see why. A senator really nothing in what he could at least make fun of or belittle? [[The president calls.]] Then we can better understand it when it comes from the right person. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u127	V.E.G. President. I may be able to make some joke of it, but this bill had no other meaning in my mind, when I listened to the story of a man. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son, but this involves a certain political declaration. I think it's pointless. That's why I'm asking, "What's it for? I'm incomprehensible to me why this business, which the state buys as an inherently different from another business, I don't understand it either, and I just crossed it. That's why I say, because it's all incomprehensible: I have no explanation for this other than that men hate private business in health care. I can't find any other reasons for such a bill and this speech. I don't care if you think so. [[The president calls.]] It's just that it's weird. If I go back to the discussion that was earlier on the names of people, you're completely on my left wing, as I always said, Helgi Hrafn. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[Up top: You always...]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u128	I'm trying.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u129	It's directed to the president. Councilmen respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u130	A respectable president. Wait a minute. I'm sorry that I'm not going to take part in a little fun of this. Hv. A senator asks: "What is it for? It has already been stated by a member of the Governing Body. The thumb of Braunus the Brynjar of Níelsson. Hv. A senator spoke extensively about handling the money of taxpayers, and he could be understood that the only thing that mattered was that it would not be under their laws. Hence, it must be reasonable to ask why. A member of Parliament: He believes that these treaties are at his disposal. Minister of health, Kristján Þór Júlíusson, repaired clinics, private drivers, under the merits of this bill, were there ever any wrong agreements? He thinks it's the last place in the world. Secretary of health, Kristján Þór Júlíusson, has made a mistake? If not, is it okay to focus on the authority? [[The president calls.]] It may be that these are not transporters, but are still what they are. A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u131	V.E.G. President. No, it can't be that I have my strings, just to be clear. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I've been saying this bill doesn't change everything. I already said that. I've probably reiterated it many times and many times. It doesn't change anything into the present system. It doesn't make any difference that a minister can stay here as far as he can, in this way. But I am only discussing what I perceive in the political declaration. If I were to bring something like this that I thought might not really make much difference, I could make a statement about how I thought it right to have it, and it should be more like this, except in exceptional circumstances, as shown in the speaker's speech, i.e. There's no rule that men will negotiate, and they may even be profit - I don't understand it as a political statement. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u132	A respectable president. That's exactly what it is, a warrant, and it's in the power of the highest power. Every time, a minister uses that warrant or not. I cut it after a while. A senator did not answer my question whether he believed that this was the timer. A health minister would have made a mistake by acting in accordance with the authority in his agreements we make here. What I'm wondering about is that I feel a bit aware when discussing health matters in general that people do not discuss what is under control at any given time. Rather, they bring up some form of ideologies. That is true of a lot of people. I'm not accusing you. A senator to be alone in it. We can so seldom discuss the overall health care system, since we are taking some luggage and discussing it. This matter rests here, explaining and sharpening the minister's warrants. [[The president calls.]] Still let it go. A senator and others who have spoken tonight like this are about banning private business. [[The president calls.]] We might as well talk about moon trips.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u133	V.E.G. President. I've been repeating that I'm not talking about this bill ban alone. I'm saying it doesn't matter. Then we're not against one thing or another. I'm just talking about the political stink of it. You can smell it. [[Up front.]] - Yeah, yeah. I don't know if there was a mistake at the time. Minister of health, Kristján Þór Júlíusson, to negotiate in this way. I don't even know if the deal was good or bad. I don't know, but I assume that he thought it was reasonable in his time, maybe in the light of the political reality he lived under, that may well be. But I don't want any pressure on this. I want us to discuss this from two viewpoints, professional and cost, not whether the state should do it or whether a private person should do it, or whether a private partner will benefit from it. And talking about money, there's 20% tax on a company, and then 22.5% of the money we're paying, so we're paying 42% tax, because they think they're paying less taxes on this. [[The president calls.]] It's not. I'm sorry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u134	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir An interesting speech was worn by the Brynjar of Níelsson. It is good to know that the senator and I share the view of a land hospital in a local university hospital that he should be a strong and powerful hospital to be run by the state. I'm happy about that. Whatever it is. A senator doesn't agree with me. He used a very good example, as he was likely referring to the medication given to a patient by a doctor. You see, it's not like that. There are many other factors besides writing prescriptions. It has many years of experience, knowledge, etc. who puts the seller, in this case the doctor, in a supreme position to the buyer. This situation is not available when e.g. A contractor decides to build a hospital for the State. Then the situation is much more equal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u135	V.E.G. President. I suppose making the medicine and evaluating it is also a lot of work. At that time, many doctors and doctors make a lot of money. We may be able to determine if this is an intrinsic difference. I don't see this difference. I cannot see why any other law should apply to health care and other services that the State buys. It's all about tax money and good service. It's just supposed to be the opening point in my mind, don't try to make some kind of difference. At best, there's some degree difference, but not a difference in this in terms of my knowledge, and it's all about getting the most for the money and the best. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u136	Mr. President. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator sees the fact that there is a reason why we are spending hundreds of billions of dollars a year in this service and believes that it should be on the custody of the State to provide it to the public. This is because this is a completely different service than any other service, such as the field ministry. A senator came in. Today, 25% of all medical services are private and private. I have never, either in speech, in writing, or elsewhere, made a few comments. I've said and said it here today that I consider it to be a very important part of our health - care system. But I can't agree with what. A member of the body when he says that interest in a health - care provider is like a salary. It's not like that. A man's salary is paid for his work. If I buy stock in some health-care company and get paid by that stock, I'm not healing anybody. [[The president calls.]] I'm not curing them. I just bought a stock. [[The president calls.]] And the profit is the result of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u137	V.E.G. President. No. In most medical companies, it's probably only a salary because it belongs to those who work in the company. Another is the exception. However, it is true that much of the government's income goes into the medical system. It's also in the education system, and everyone has the right to be educated. All are entitled to health care. I'll buy a service in the education system from the rest of them. I know some people don't like it too, but we do. There is also no difference between it and health care. I see no difference in buying this service this way and that those who do well get a natural benefit from it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u138	V.E.G. President. In my speech, I singled out that Brasin Þór Níelsson's son said he didn't care if the owner made money. Then we may come to the core of this discussion, for the discussion is not necessarily about the contents but about some political smell, as the senator said, about the one buying and paying for the ministry. The Senator said, so I quote him: I just don't care if the owner pays off. Well, then, let's make the case of too little money and I need more money, would the senator be willing to pay more because the fee has gone up?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u139	V.E.G. President. That was a very strange question.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u140	Why?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u141	I have some contract, on behalf of the government and the Minister of Health, I have a contract to buy a certain service for a certain amount of money. One year, the seller who sells me health - care services may be a profit, a cost after a year, the year may be a loss. I can't pick up the contract, no sale, no buyer. If there's a lot of money on this operation and there's a time on the contract, I'm not sure that on behalf of the health minister I'll offer as high a price as next. Well, then I guess I've got a really good deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u142	V.E.G. President. The question may have been too complicated, I don't know, I just remembered in my speech that the senator said that he didn't care if people paid for his money. So the question was that if we don't make enough money - we regularly renew contracts, right? If I'm running this kind of service on my own terms, I'm sure I'd like to get some money. Let us assume that this is what men do for that purpose. If there is not enough money, would he be willing to pay more because more money is expected to be paid for, even if it is not known when dealing with the agreement? Would the senator be willing to pay more because he needs more or more money?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u143	V.E.G. President. I'm not thinking how much I'm paying, so somebody's gonna make money. But I don't care about any contract I've already made if it leads to money.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u144	Then you're gonna make new contracts, and the money's gonna go down.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-19-7.u145	Yes, of course, I can make a new deal, and if I think I can buy this service from this doctor or something less expensive, I'll try. It's just like business happens everywhere. But I'm not freaking out that someone could make money on the basis of some contract I've already made. I just don't worry about it any more than he gets lost. He gets lost sometimes. I am not worried that he will lose one year or that he will be able to pay his money for the next year. [[The president calls.]] However, it can change with the next contract depending on the situation.
