ParlaMint-IS_2018-07-18-82.u1	A meeting is set up at the General Assembly for a lawhouse on the Þingles on the Axar River. President of Iceland and the First Lady, Generals, Ministers, President of the Parliament, other foreign guests and good citizens of the country. We came here to remember that this day, 100 years ago, on July 18, 1918, was concluded by Iceland's treaties and Dana for Iceland's sovereignty, and the contract signed in the Generals House. The treaty is the most unequivocal stage for the independence campaign of the Icelanders. A restoration of Generals 1845, the Constitution of 1874, with legal authority for the General, the 1904 home administration with national ministers and Congress was certainly a significant step, but Iceland was still a part of the dance state. With the Treaty, which went into effect on December 1, 1918, Iceland became a special state, a kingdom, with full authority over its own affairs, and thus became part of the countryside of sovereign countries. And to establish the importance of this milestone, the Danish government, under the contract, took part in announcing to other countries that Denmark had accepted Iceland as a sovereign state. Thus, with the Treaty of 1918, the personal independence struggle for the Europeans of Iceland for 70 years or since Jón Sigurðsson published his work on the Icelanders and there presented evidence that the Icelanders should rule themselves. Although a great amount of light was resting over the 1944 Republic of Germany, it is still that by the narratives of the Union Fights, the Republic Office was, in effect, a predictable event, but did not include dramatic political news in the same way as the Supreme Being. So with the view that a sovereignty involves uncircumcised independence, we can rightly say that December 1 is the real day of independence in the Icelandic nation. It is better to keep in mind that the Treaty was the product of Danish and Icelandic senators, as the Treaty was appointed to the trust and influencemen of both parties. So it is a great privilege for the General to have here with us today the president of the dance council. We are also delighted that the chairmans of many other friends' countries and other foreign guests honor us with their presence on this day of the feast. For the respect and friendship I would give them thanks for Allegis. By the end of each year at the Parliament's Council, when the ancient Parliament met every summer to write laws and pronounce judgments, there was always a large number of people gathered from every corner of the country. So this laid the basis for the society that developed in Iceland. Hence, there is no place as good as the Thunder's death that there is at least a significant event in our history. After the Council moved to Reykjavík, it has become a traditional custom to gather it here at the national holiday and memorial. Often during this meeting, national festivals have been held. We've been here twice, celebrating the birthday of land mines and Iceland's settlements, 1874 and 1974. Only on the Capitol could we start the Republic of Iceland in 1944. Here we celebrated the 1,000th anniversary of the World Council in 1930, June 17, 1994, and celebrated the 50th anniversary of the Republic in 2000 that by the end of the 1,000 years since the Council of Churches brought Christian practices into the United States. The Parliament is bound to an unbreakable bond between the Parliament and the Parliament. Over the years, there have been ideas of how to nurture more fully the heritage that links the Council today with the ancient Council of the Þjóldar. This has largely been the subject of making it possible for the U.S. Senate to be held in the Þingals. That's my point of view. Here in the Parliament, there could be a convocation ceremony in the spring after the regular elections at a time, thus creating an appropriate setting for harmony with nature and the weekend of the place. At her meeting yesterday, the General concluded to cooperate with the Icelandic literary Society on the publication of two publications related to the United States Hall and our independence campaigns in a different but direct manner. A publication on the Book of Congress in Icelandic art will be published showing how artists have interpreted the dramatic construction of Þingalva. There is a new work on the history of Icelandic literature from land mines to our time. Our literature, especially the ancient literature, is the basis for our self - image. So they were vital for our ability to depend on our independence. It's a fine audience. By the 19th century, when the Icelanders began their independence campaign, their desire for independence was remarkablely strong among the people. We were few, only about 58,000 when the General was assembled in 1845, and we were also a poor nation of material things. But they were rich in spiritual values. We have precious literature, a strong awareness of the nation's history, and a common language. 70 years later, 1918, we were just over 90,000 and still poor people, but we had the courage to stand on our own and take full responsibility for our own matters. The people have persevered in times of distress and have always made their way out of them. During the 100 years since the sovereignty, giant steps have been taken in the nation's progress, although they may and should certainly do better in various ways. So we can have full optimism about the future. We have never been better able to cope with the years to come. We have more people, we are better educated, we have technology, knowledge, and material benefits far beyond what has never been in this country at any time. Let's share this quality with sustainability, equation and justice, and then Iceland will be successful.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-07-18-82.u2	Presidents and fellow Americans. Today, we are gathered at the Capitol to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the sovereignty. In the minds of many of the nation's self - symbols, it has played very different roles in our history since the conquest. Here, the General Assembly was founded, and this is how Congress became the center of power from the era of land mines. In Halldór Laxness's story, Iceland's clock hung for the legal house's fork, no ordinary clock, but the country's clock. By the time it began, this clock was broken, and the oldest men seemed to remember the sound of it brighter. During the history of Iceland's Clock, Congress became the symbol of the Danish power in Iceland, a place where the king's officials made judgments, and carried them out, men were free, and women were drowned. When the Icelanders became an independent nation, we recovered Congress as our memories. They became a peaceful place of joy for a small nation, yet independent and sovereign. This is where we gather as we want to recall what makes us a nation, us who live here, and share the benefits. It did not blow in that year 100 years ago when the nation became the sovereign; Catlugos, the Great Sprout, the Spanish influenza, the poverty, the cold, and the fair, despite this situation, the nation was a unit for total sovereignty. Since then, the sovereignty has been a source of power to the nation in the amazing history of progress and prosperity that has marked this past century's Icelandic community. The difficult conditions of the autumn of 1918, when Iceland became a sovereign state remind us that much can be accomplished, although external circumstances may not be necessarily practical. The history of the sovereign government is characterized by big mental and spiritual progress and is seen in the establishment of Iceland's University, the construction of the Land Hospital, the building of civilizations, as well as in the struggle of mass movements, the labor movement, the women of the movement, who have won victories that have completely changed our community. World insurance, birthworm, and other such victories have contributed to the recovery of the benefits for all of us. Trends, struggles, solidarities when necessary; all of these have marked the history of the Supreme Empire and have given us a society completely different from the modern society of 1918 in terms of economic prosperity and well - being, so much has been changed in a short period of time. But where are we heading now, a century later? The values we were guided by then, by land, nation, and tongue, are still burdensome, although society has changed. As we meet with the challenge of promoting the English language in a changed world, we rejoice that in Iceland so many languages are now spoken 100 years ago. Similarly, the nation has become considerably more diverse than in 1918, since our society is alive, and it is constantly changing. We are to welcome the important diversity that makes our nation richer and secure that all of us living here each have a strong voice in our community, regardless of our background, irrespective of religion. We should never allow hate speech to become legitimate in our society. The land has also made great changes, especially in human activities. There we stand at milestones, where we have the obligation to protect the unmanly nature and vastness that we possess and have become rare in a world that is far more human than 100 years ago. Today, we look to the future together. We here provide suggestions on how to deal with the resource research of the sea that has always been developed by this island nation, which is the source of our survival but is changing, especially as a result of human climate change. On the other hand, a suggestion for a child's culture for the next five years to ensure that all children are involved in creation and culture. The suggestion reflects the clear desire of the Generals to look especially to young people and thus to look to the future. Especially should communities be measured by the way they treat children and how they ensure that all children will have the opportunity to develop their abilities so that they can thrive and follow their dreams. In that way we will ensure a good society, which will make us loyal to an equal society. It is not only a matter of remembering the prospective ones who fought for the sovereignty during difficult times but also of making vows to the future. The sovereignty itself includes promises of a future, and those communities who have faith in the future, especially to their children. I welcome the belief in a future published at the General Assembly today, July 18, 2018.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-07-18-82.u3	President of the United States of Iceland, President of the Generals, good Icelanders. The signing of the European Union countries is one of the most significant milestones in the history of the country and the most important stage of independence. It is appropriate, then, to make available this special meeting in the United States today, where we are moved to think appreciatively of those who were taking the lead in the independence campaign and thus progress toward the country and the nation that followed. In 1918, however, matters began coldly with the Great English winter and ended in great storms, but in the fall of the catahus, with the related glacier and the euphemism. In other words, our country reminded us of its year of sovereignty. Nature is still at the same hay corner 100 years later. It will, as it were, be compared, but I wonder if this summer will not be remembered as the Great Rain Seer and with the latest reports of the Eagle's Bay. It is not surprising that the natural condition of this country is a strong reminder over the years, since it has always been a life - connection with our Icelanders'independence. It has made a big difference in our survival to have harnessed the energy and use of the resources in our country to our advantage in the past century. This is because we have been guided by sustainability, and increasingly nature and long - term interests are being guided by them. In this context, I would like to mention the sustainable use of our fallwaters, as well as the continuous development of the fishing regime with the sustainable use of marine resources guided by it. Icelandic fishing exports are one of the most important features of Icelandic society. Thus, evolution in the fishing industry is not only important to the article itself but also to the whole country. We Icelanders have set us in the highest order when it comes to the wise use of marine resources, and we are in the lead in many areas in the fishing field. Strong research on marine environment is the basis for this sustainable use. Therefore, it is well established that today a joint council proposal by the chairman of all classes is proposed to begin a new ocean research vessel. With a new ocean - research ship, we take a great step in improving our ability to sea and fish research from Icelandic fishing roads and the nation's welfare. A respectable president. We stand for a more pivotal date than a century of sovereignty. In the years to come, rapid social change is already at hand and will shape Icelandic society. The fourth industrial revolution will lead to a fundamental change in economics and will lead to widespread social change, and Iceland will not be there and will not be divorced. How important it is, then, to prepare future generations well for the changes we now face! It is good to see that in the controversy of the present arrangement, there is also a conclusion that the formation of a new and powerful children's culture, which will have the primary role in strengthening the creative power of children and young people. By promoting increased participation in children in art, design, and innovation, we prepare our children better for the changed world. At the same time, a child culture fund is designed to promote a sense of community and to promote democratic participation by children and young people in society. I believe that by the conjugal arrangement here on earth, we are the two different seeds that both of us will produce abundant fruitage for the future generations of the country. - I congratulate the people of the country today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-07-18-82.u4	Honorable presidents. My fellow Americans. I'm here with a certain spirit. I'm humble. I'm standing here at the most sacred place in Iceland. A General Assembly at the Field - It's an amazing feeling. I'm so grateful we're here together today. I'm so grateful for the visitors who have visited us, who honor us in this great day, the 100 - year - old general of Iceland. Although the year 1918 had been difficult for us to pass through freezing winters, it was a marvel in July, followed by the fact that we were writing under the covenant, that there was a sun and an extraordinary climate, in July 1918. Not only was it cold and all sorts of events and difficulties that we had to endure that year but it was also a great joy, a sun in which the nation's sovereignty was sealed and abandoned on December 1, 1918. To witness and participate in it with all the presidents of a political party, cross - political community was about to set up a children's education fund for our children - it's amazing to be part of that. Knowing that by our fine contributions, this gift to the nation, we are especially in the process of not separating children according to their economic situation. We want to put our arms around all our children, all Icelandic children should have the opportunity to get to know the land, to participate in culture, that is the will, that was the heart that was behind our stand for a child's culture. Most important, I would like to mention the tremendous effort in planning to build a new ocean - research ship, that we are really going ahead with a good example to contribute to the environment around the country. We know about the threat we've been facing. We know about the warming of the sea. We know about pollution. We know all about the plastic. But what we are doing now - we are really interested in and optimistic about the future because we know that together we are invincible. We will continue to stand together, all as one. Be kind to one another. Let's give it up, for example. To work on good things, we generals have the peace of mind. Let us rejoice rather than divide. That's the future I want to see Iceland, the future of us all. I say, congratulations Iceland. We're 100-year-old sovereigns today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-07-18-82.u5	Honorable presidents. Dearest nation. The poet Einar Bragi wrote in Borijo: Small cow played in the fun And laughed bran white the child's mind decreased. A Long Life lovely and sweet to sea, black and black ... bya dead body and laughed. In this effective song, the poet well describes the harsh realities of the Icelanders far into our day and shows how small and weak we are about the forces of nature, even the same things that are the basis for our survival. At the same time that they feed us and dress us, and feed us in their beauty, they can turn into a monster in a single blow, snatch our lives, or tormented life - giving deaths; leave loved ones exposed and tiny. In time, though, the human family has learned to live in the economy, practical technology, so that nature does not take on so much of our daily activities as it did in many ways that a huge shadow lies upon mankind. Our greatest project today is to revise complete contact with nature so that we do not compromise the existence of man and life as we know it. With Icelanders, we need to gain new knowledge, be careful, use our country wisely and in a sustainable way, but also make the way for us to participate in projects that are essential to our nature. It is vital to ensure and strengthen our sovereignty. But while nature can be quirky and sometimes cruel, the culture is our own work. The switch between economic and social benefits, schools and health services or resource control is e.g. not the laws of nature - where we ourselves are fortunate builders. So we must have the ability to carry out the basic work of the day. With a more reasonable agreement, we can guarantee every citizen of the country a decent standard of living, and with a new constitution, this and other basic rights can be established even more fully. But we also need to accept our responsibility as human beings and remember where we came from. It is too short since the Icelanders could not feed their children and fled thousands west in search of a better life so that we can now look away, when millions are fleeing from poverty, war, and climate. -Jeg bør srree det pájarnavisk and where? I'm sorry to bother you. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. While the little controversies presented here do not solve all our problems, it is symbolic to the will of all members of the council to look to the future and to what matters most to us in spite of everything. On the one hand is a declaration of the right children and the need for each of them to enjoy the details of life and the importance of our natural resources, the ocean in this case, and the responsibility of our shoulders to protect them. Today, there is indeed an important and remarkable milestone in the history of a nation that lived in the hundreds of years, not only of nature, but in spite of it as well. However, once our years have been set well, the immediate future will have to be about ensuring all the legitimate share in the quality of our country. A nation's sovereignty is precious and something to rejoice over, but undeniably it pales out if we cannot guarantee all those who make it possible to live in security and dignity for the rest of our life. Dear nation, happy birthday.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-07-18-82.u6	Honorable presidents. Good citizens of the country. We are gathered here at a rare meeting at the Capitol, a meeting which is part of the celebration of one of the greatest birthdays this nation will have. We should be doing a higher sovereignty than we have ever been. The reign day of December 1 has not yet been made a general day, unlike when we celebrate, e.g. the seasons change, summers, often cold and rainy. There is reason for us to take advantage of this reason to increase the importance of a future sovereignty and to remember the regular mental attitude of an independent institution, to strengthen us in the faith, to remind us of the reasons why the nation wanted to become independent, the results of which they were free and the importance of defending their sovereignty. Today, when many things may seem, or default, things that are not at all, it is good to remember the aims of a poor nation of over 90,000 people on an island in the North Atlantic, convinced that Iceland should be an independent state, a sovereign state in the world, largely controlled by a few colonial powers. On the contrary, they were not told that this was not possible, believed that Iceland's independence was long - term and should never have disappeared. Icelanders were convinced that the nation would be better off ruling themselves. And so it proved to be. After an independent organization, one of the greatest progressive developments ever experienced by a nation began. Today, it is to remember the signing of the Union by agreeing to a matter proposed by the presidents of all political parties at the General Assembly. I would have chosen to complete a proposal agreed on by the government in March 2015 and to be associated with, among other things, in March 2015. This unique place, the Field of Congress, however, is a practical and long - term proposal for the Icelanders to have a new ocean research vessel. This is a matter that makes it easy to agree, and it certainly has to do with our status as an independent nation. It has to do with the weekend of land, science, and the ability to protect common interests. During this time of sovereignty, we have three times taken over to protect the interests of a new ocean projector for the future. No one should belittle the victories that were won in the power of the sovereignty, even today when it appears that it is sometimes in fashion to minimize past achievements. Recall, too, the emphasis that the leaders of the independent struggle put on science, research, and education. The search for the truth and the best way of doing things was in harmony with the vision of the importance of sovereignty. Today, science seems to be under attack too often. Sometimes it seems that there's too much politics in the science as soon as there's too little politics in the politics. It would be healthy to have more politics in politics and politics and more science in education. It is likely clear that at a meeting this is an approved proposal that everyone can agree on. We must not forget, though, that the requirement for sovereignty was not the least of the right to disagree; it was about democracy; that the people themselves rule; that they have different options to choose from; and even deal with them in a democratic way. Differences play a key role in democracies. The sovereignty was about the right to succeed in the best way, rather than receiving orders about the only right way out from those who wanted to know about us. Instead of the Icelandic office in Copenhagen, where officials were supposed to be experts in Iceland's affairs and know for us, the public in Iceland had to have differing views about what was right every time. As a result, all of us should be able to agree on one thing, the importance of defending the sovereignty. But this does not happen automatically. There is not a question of compromise, nor does a paradox phrase mean that we need to share the sovereignty. Defending the sovereignty is a matter of having the religion of the sovereignty demand and of relying on that conviction, especially in times of trial. Let us not, of course, allow the practical suggestions we agree with today to cause us to overlook the most important things, for we respect and defend the sovereignty. May we use this momentous milestone to agree that we will defend the sovereignty and the constitution designed to ensure that no one will be left behind. Let's show that we've been running to the Field to trust our vows.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-07-18-82.u7	Honorable presidents. Good citizens of the country. It is appropriate that the Allied Council of Iceland serve at a meeting here on the United States Hall for suggestions on how the future will be affected and for the young generation and research that contribute to the sustainability of the sea. The General concluded that the Agency will establish its children's culture fund, which, in turn, strengthens them. Democratic involvement of children in society. An election is the key to democracies in sovereign countries and concern is the small campaign of young people. In 2014, the country election rate was the worst in the republican history, where less than half of the young people had reached their optimal location. How important it is, then, to support and encourage young people to make informed decisions and to choose. Young people's shadowy elections for the National Association of Young People and the Association of Icelandic high school students provide examples of exemplary assignments. It is therefore a pleasure to relate that the ministry of transportation and rural government was one of its sponsors in the rural elections. Spring. Participation in elections is the basis for democracy and one pillar of sovereignty. At this time, the General of the Council concludes to set up a new ocean - research vessel that meets the requirements for seawater research. With a perfect research tool and a new ocean research vessel, Iceland can remain in the front order in the management of crops and in good contact with nature. The country has been successful in making new fish stocks based on the best knowledge each time. The newness of the sea around the country depends on much of the nation's survival, has always been, and laid the groundwork in its time for the nation's economic independence and the sovereignty. More than 70 years ago, time could be read - where else? - that the Icelanders must have a ship of ocean research and that research could have invaluable significance for the nation's work. At that time, the markets were so unsearched, research tools were scarce, as well as man's knowledge of natural conditions. Bjarni Sæmundsson, a naturalist, brought up the idea that if a particular hunting control was present, it would be far more valuable and that if these were allowed to live ten years longer, they would be 100 times more worth. Marine ships would increase knowledge of fish stock behavior, at the time, about 90% of the export value of marine products. Since the beginning, we have arranged for outstandings in the field of ocean science and fishing. Sustainable use of major crops is exemplary, and fishing has made them more profitable than in most places. At the same time, it is important that we know the bottom of the ocean and its top laws in Iceland's legal history, taking knowledge of the circumstances and life of the ocean. Knowledge of the conditions below the sea, understanding the bottom of the sea, and its top layers are essential for dealing with new challenges in the sea. Marine research plays a key role in sustainable resource use and needs to be enhanced. Three years ago, on the 50th anniversary of the Oceanographic Institute, it was decided that the maping of the ocean bottom of the entire jurisdiction would be completed in the next few years. At that time, the minister of the sea emissary, the one standing here, suggested at a government meeting that funding for the project would be ensured. Data on bottom research is a value to the future, but research through changes in ocean currents and acidification is also limited. Our fire ocean research ship, just Bjarni Sólmundsson, has been a success for us, but it has come to our years. A new marine ship ensures continued research, ensures the sustainable use of marine resources that forms the cornerstone of Iceland's home and prosperity and the foundations of the economic sovereignty. Have we walked for good, down the road? asked the poet. We can claim that in 100 years of sovereignty, we have indeed done so. Congratulations, my fellow Americans, with 100 years of sovereignty.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-07-18-82.u8	Honorable presidents. My fellow Americans. The sovereignty is near to the heart of all of us. I want to claim it. For many reasons, including the 1918 National U.S.A. for being with the nation's first election, where women could use their voting rights. I quote the words of Bríet Bjarnhéðinsdóttir's great fighter when she urged women to take advantage of the right to vote, by permission of the president: Then for the first time, women come forth to participate directly in the big politics of the country. It is the important right of the election that we will not be excluded from the nation. No decision will now be made by the people of the voters unless we are with them. Let us now see in the autumn that we all want to be women of Iceland. We stood up on December 1, 1918, as a nation among nations, a sovereign, and strong. Despite his shortness of breath and adversity. Because in 1918 there was a calm year in the history of the nation, with well - known freezing temperatures, reduced transport, imported lips, Katlegos, and Spanish flu. To make things worse, lack of housing remained during that time than in the face of adversity, we showed our strength as a nation. The government we long fought for is the most valuable partnership in the nation to which all of us are to protect. It is worth remembering that the battle for sovereignty and the independence of Iceland was not an isolated incident but a product of European freedom movement. The independence struggle was not about taking the government of the land into our own hands. It also appealed to bring knowledge and science into the land. It was a military instinct for free trade and increased economic cooperation with other countries. There was also an opportunity for improvement. The position of the sovereignty is, on the contrary, not a defensive stand for collapse. The sovereignty of each nation is a living phenomenon. As a result, the responsibility for the state of the state's state of state is that each generation must ensure that the year of Iceland should be set apart in the international community according to the future of time and according to the ways of countries and nations and change cooperation between partners. Whatever steps we have taken since 1918 for further cooperation and cooperation with other sovereign nations has improved the economy of our country and, although these included sharing decisions on important matters among other nations, has added to the well - being of the people. Iceland is on account of the greater in the international community than before. That's how we're responsible for keeping and supporting Iceland's sovereignty. The proposals made by the Continents of the United States at the Council today are rightly designed to support the nation's cultural, scientific, and economic sovereignty. With the institution of a child's culture, the plan is to promote a democracy awareness of children and young people and to encourage their increased participation in policy development and decision making. Our children, the future itself, should show proper respect, support, and, of course, love in all our systems. Thus, they will be better equipped to meet the challenges of the sovereignty itself. The construction of a new ocean projector is just as important. By all means, we need to contribute to the sustainable use of the sea and to the best available knowledge. Thus we will strengthen the sovereignty because Iceland's interests have been, are, and continue to be close to the ocean. With Icelanders, like the whole world, we need to understand the marine ecosystem better. We need to provide specific protective guidance and direction. There we Icelanders have been leading, and there we are going to stay. Using such transnational suggestions, we strengthen our sovereignty. It is commendable, and it is symbolic. We're supposed to keep moving. We are to move forward and make sure that our voice remains strong in cooperation with the nations. Just as it was good for us Icelanders to have leading in the independence struggle, who understood the importance of Iceland's being not outside its banks, but of the turning of Europe's turning point is more urgent than ever, in spite of that, that we are staying awake today. That is why we need to reject isolationism, customs, policy, and Rasism. We must not be afraid to continue speaking for democracy, for diversity, for equality, and for freedom. We thus feed our sovereignty and strengthen its foundation, its land, and its nation for good. Happy birthday.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-07-18-82.u9	Hv. All council members. The European Union Convention, Forbundslaven, was a contract between the International Parliament and the Government and the State Day in Denmark, signed on July 18, 1918 by key members of both Congresss, then adopted by the General Act, adopted in the Icelandic national law and adopted by the Dana State Assembly by the State Assembly and finally established by King Kristján X.. The meeting now addresses the representatives of the dance council, the party of the Convention, the President of the Council, Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-07-18-82.u10	President of Iceland, President of the Generals, Prime Minister, Other Ministers, Generals, Ladies and gentlemen. Congratulations, Iceland. It is a pleasure and a great honor for me on behalf of the Danish Assembly - and Denmark - to say hello to Iceland and to everyone who lives here. On that day, July 18, a hundred years ago, a delegation of the National Assembly and Icelandic Parliamentaries reached an agreement that became the foundation of the Treaty, which included recognition in Iceland as a free and sovereign state. The Law went into effect on December 1, 1918. Since then, Denmark and Iceland have been two separate free and sovereign states. In July 1918, the Danish emissary visited Congress on its journey to the country. What a special joy it is to follow in the footsteps of the committees here today, 100 years later! 100 years later, however, there are many things that link us together. The common history of the nations is based on a state relationship that lasted more than 500 years. The harmony between Denmark and Iceland rests on everything that we feel is common, common, cultural, shared ideals, and the same values. Today, we do not view Iceland's sovereignty and independence as a great cover for the past and for Denmark. We are still in the same Norwegian family. We have a close and good cooperation in the Northern Council, the Arctic Council, and NATO. Also in the NB8, along with our friends in the Baltic States. The language is still an important key in the relationship between Dana and Iceland, even though I learned that a Danish person is not spoken or divorced on the same scale as before. I'm sorry, I'm going to say, because a Norwegian language community is still an important nerve between those living in the North countries. Iceland is the only country apart from the Danish kingdom where Danish is an obligatory subject in school. I understand there are still more Icelanders in Denmark than in any other country. The English language is often heard on street walks, especially in Copenhagen and elsewhere in Denmark. It is good, important, and natural for Icelanders to feel at home in Denmark. Because while Iceland has become free and sovereign a hundred years ago, Denmark and Iceland are connected with a strong bond. And it will always be. When our relationship with people was established in Iceland, it was the land where the original self - image of Norse was preserved. In the 19th century, Iceland helped to fuel dancing nationalistic feelings that were then flourishing. Iceland was viewed as the cradle of Norwegian culture. When Danir and I arrive in Iceland, we feel a country that has a special place for the Danish people. This is where we see our roots. Similarly, Icelanders can say that the development of modern civilization in Iceland is very strongly rooted in Denmark. This is true of cultural, scientific, universal, social, and ethnic welfare. Iceland is a powerful role model in the battle of new countries for independence, democracy, and human rights. History and culture not only link us to one another but also to ideals and interests in the Norse field, in the European community, and in international institutions. Over the centuries, many people have found themselves in the United States. Arduous weather, volcanic eruptions, and seismic terrestrials, the harsh forces that we humans have no control over. Also, human events, such as the collapse of banks and the economic crisis, threaten human prosperity and security. We have always been fascinated by the beautiful, untamed, impenetrable nature of Iceland, Dani, who owns our country's origin, through the groves and valleys of salt and east shores. The natural world in Iceland has produced well - known legends about ogress that take refuge from sunlight in dark caves and skunks. Here on the Capitol, it is easy to imagine how the lava will turn out to be oscillating in the mist, creating legends and adventures about mysterious creatures. Thousands of Dana attend Iceland every year and return with a lifetime of memories they store. One reason is that Dana and I do not feel like foreigners when we come here because in some way we feel that we are in a country we have always known. From generation to generation, Icelanders and Danir have taken trade, formed marriages, and formed relationships between - and the north along the seas, to the Faeroe Islands, and to Greenland. What distinguishes you is how close you are to the sea. We also know this in Denmark. Because of all of this, me and Dana have never cared about Iceland, and they'll never be. Denmark and Iceland are connected to close friendships in the Norse Brotherhood. Congratulations, Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-07-18-82.u11	Honor the generals, my fellow Americans. It is appropriate to meet at the House of Congress at a festival. The story of this place is the ancient history of Icelandic society. In these regions, a thousand years ago and more, the General Assembly was set up in Iceland. For a long time, the lives of the people of the United States were marked by the choice of princes in the United States. This is also where our civilizations are shaped. This was the scene of history and events that have lived in the midst of a whole nation. Here we can learn a word about the triumph of knowledge and understanding over those who are deceitful, fearful, and prejudice. And when the gods were angry, behold, the lava was burned in it, when we stand? - This will have Snorri said to pagans who felt that landfires were caused by anger over the birth of a new custom. Here, too, we can draw wisdom from our community and the state of justice that is under the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. It will be true, even in the time of the trial in which the Christian congregation was declared, Ljósvetningagoði said: "We will break up the law that we will break up and peace. " Shortly thereafter, there was a battle on the street, an interruption of the weekend of the council, until the ruler Hallur af Simía proclaimed sweet and did not make any difference, even though he would be a lowly man for that reason. A community is based on compromise, a constant search for reconciliation, rather than the power of the strong one. Let that lesson sound from the Thieves. Our treasure of history can always be searched. Certainly, it will never be proved that they gods spoke entirely in the way that stories teach, recorded, and fictitious centuries later. However, this will not be proved false, nor will it be the message, the wisdom and experience that we want to control and guide. But let us be careful that the evidence from this place will be a little sparkling and bright. There were laws and law here, but there was also a sledgehammer covering, a draught. ▪ Vont is their spoil; Halldór Laxness's field; their rights are as good as their power. Here people were punished badly for little or no reproach; women were executed for crimes committed against them. Thus the history of this place is also the history of the oppressed, the history of the oppressed. Blessed is the memory of all those who have endured harshness and cruelty, injustice, and rage. My fellow Americans. As we deal with the evils of past centuries, let us rejoice in the evident progress that has occurred in the lives of this nation. Early in July 1918, representatives of the Danish power were offered to Icelanders, who were as numerous as they in discussions about Iceland's Community Act as Denmark. On July 18, the correct century C.E., contracts for them were signed, and on December 1, 1918, they became a turning point. Iceland became a free and sovereign state. The final steps on independence were also taken here on the roads. A republic was established. In fact, though, it never ends, the struggle for sovereignty and independence, the society of justice and fairness in cooperation with other nations according to our needs. And we shall continue in the fields of the Parliament, filled with the same wonder that they did not fear, the Grímur of geitskör and his companion, when they were seeking to be in the assembly, and when they looked to the forest, and the field, and the water, and thought that there was no further place to go. A lot of things have changed for over a thousand years, but the beauty of the Þingalva always lives. May she also continue to live on, our healthy patriotism that exists in Iceland, with respect for one another, no matter where people come from, and the country we're to care for. Of that we have countless songs. In the Land of the lifesaver of Harald's daughter, this respect is above all things, not ruffles and not pride: I won't tell you anything about this country. I'm not singing national songs about the caves, the waterfalls, each one The eagles and cows for the Battle of the People and Childhood in Tragedy No. But stand beside me In the dark. Breathe deeply and feel it streaming Then say: This is where I live. Yeah, this is where we belong. We are Icelanders, a free nation in a beautiful country. And the future, it's in our hands, open and uncertain, fully circumcised and planned. Nice Senate: I celebrate with you the establishment of a children's culture fund and build a new ocean projector. Progress is in improving the quality of children, education and culture, research and sustainable resource use. My fellow Americans. May we be desolate to walk together for a good path along the path.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-07-18-82.u12	Iceland's number tells: That, according to the proposal of Prime Minister and with appeal to the approval of the General Assembly, I may postpone the assembly of the 148th legislature, from July 18, 2018 to September 11, 2018. To Reykjavík, July 17, 2018. The Guðni of Th. Jóhannesson. Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. Presidential Letters for Pronunciation of General meetings According to this letter that I have read, I now declare that the Council meeting, 148th, is postponed. I ask the assembly to rise from the seats, and to remember the country.
