ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-79.u1	Madam President. The central category supports the change in the share's proposal to 1st par. ... goout. We welcome them for the conversion of the government and for its finally realizing how devastating this customs agreement is to Icelandic farming. The Central Party is against the Customs agreement, and we want to resign. It's been shown. We've made a pact proposal for that subject. And we asked for a special discussion about this contract here at the Hall of Congress. We'd like to resign him because of his smiles and lack of consultation with the local farmers' interest groups in the case, and as a result, no analysis was made on the impact of the contract on domestic agricultural production. Would 1st. In the next eight months or so, the bill did not fail to disappear, or tollvoti for the most special elevenfold, from 20 tons to 230 tons. We missed it. paritaprevir Benediktsson's son Benedictsson already produced in Iceland is some 240 tons. They're made in the Valley of Burd. There, 25 people are employed. - Hv. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy has misunderstood the point before when he spoke of a thousand tons. But we see how this affects Icelandic markets. This totally relieves the feet of Icelandic expert production. With the bill, as it was first mentioned, the government was going beyond the European Union without any intervention. This endless permissive attitude toward the European Union is intolerable. After the tollkovt has reached a total of 230 tons, the total volume is 95% of all the most special production in Iceland, as I mentioned. It is quite amazing that the government does not consider it an option to give the Icelandic agriculture and the Icelandic food industry or food companies any time to adapt to the new competitive environment. The middle party thinks this toll deal is a bitch. We want to break up with him, like I came in earlier. It is very important to protect Icelandic agricultural production. She's going for it. Farming is very important to us, ensuring food security, providing a number of people with jobs in many parts of the country, in the country region, and we want to see the whole country. This is part of the land being inhabited, that this country has a powerful agriculture. Madam President. The middle class cannot take care of the whole situation, as it is stated.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-79.u2	A respectable president. This has taken place a fine and interesting discussion, although many times and times, it did not directly discuss the exact issues we are discussing today but a general view of customs and vacation stores in general and some undefined freedoms that politicians are tamed in a political conversation. In view of the words of many woes. I would like to briefly review the timelines in this regard why we are at the head of this matter. On September 17, 2015, the government negotiates customs agreements with the European Union. This includes the terms. on the import of cheeses. The customs contracts allow for a four - year lead-in period for Icelandic agriculture. On February 19, 2016, livestock contracts are signed. More than a month later, farmers agree to the market agreements where these passed on toll agreements, the only toll agreements, with four years'lead-in period that farmers knew about when they signed and then agreed to the stock agreements. On August 13, 2016, the Allied Advisory Committee, without any consultation with farmers, decides to reevaluate the terms of that tax agreement. It is, as I say, the one-sided decision made by Generalis, which, of course, is free to take, cannot be tied to the hands of the Generals by signing a minister. But I reiterate that this is a one - side decision that farmers didn't know about when they agreed to the livestock contract. It stipulated a fall from this four - year - long lead phase, which lasted when farmers agreed. However, this one - sided decision was accepted by two - sided farmers during the four - year lead - up period. But to compensate for the debt of the General Assembly, and the government, to work on opening a market abroad. Buy a purchase. Then we are here today to decide whether to look at only one side of the coin, regardless of whether it was in the other. To buy a purchase is no longer a purchase, but to decide to take only the lead-in period away, although we have not worked at what we said to be replaced by the lead-in period, because it is the reason that the employment committee agreed at its time to direct it to a minister while working on access rights to local markets for dairy products. It's okay to be totally independent of this being exported milk products. It's just not part of these contracts. It is not part of these measures, or promises, or expedients, or what we should call what the government went on to put on, in this matter. These are the facts. We can have all the opinions we want and have on whether to be tolls on cheese or not. It's just everything, a whole different discussion. We are discussing the process that began with the 17th September 2015 customs agreements.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-79.u3	Madam President. Last week, we may say, members of the council and the presidents have begun to agree on the end of the council. We used that type of work to discuss the issues that we considered a serious failure or a need to fix. This applies, e.g. We're on the generator bill, where we reached the best landing with the solution-targeted work of everyone involved. The same story can be said of the steroid bill, a prohibition on certain performance mechanisms, where we obtained a good solution for all share owners. Mr. President. I have a bad feeling about this matter because we in the government stand had time and opportunity to discuss the issues we were concerned about and to come to some sort of conclusion, no matter what the outcome, but to this matter, I have a bad feeling because of its treatment. At the beginning of the process of making contracts for the end of the council, there was no concern in the less part, but it has changed fundamentally on the final day of the council in questionable circumstances. I'm sorry to say this, but this will lessen my confidence in the contracts that are made at the end of the council because at the beginning of this road, we talked about the issues we were concerned about and we checked to see if we could reach some conclusion. Then we came to an agreement on how the council was completed. If it happens on the final day that the case we weren't worried about, because it seemed fine, is changed to the basics of this council's final hours, they are concerned that it can happen to every case that is causing no concern to us when we start this process. This could cause us in our government position to say that we are concerned about all the matters that seem even to be agreed and that they seem to be content because they may be turned to the basics of the last few hours without a complete consultation or agreement and without trying to make peace. I'm very sorry that we're wasting our last minute and maybe the last hour of this council on a case that could have been quite successful for all share owners. If we had known in advance that the plan was to change it so much, we could have had a conversation about it. I just wanted to come up here to describe my disappointment tonight.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-79.u4	Mr. President. It's been quite remarkable watching this case. In their speeches, governments have gone back a little over time, talking about contracts with the European Union that were made some years ago, and projects or non-work ministers at a certain time. It has been noted that when the current legislature minister arrived in his Ministry, there was a stone on top of a stone in the face of the agricultural contract. Hv. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson said, if I had just noticed, that he had been put to go over these things, and had found out in February. that nothing had been worked on that subject was to be compared to the viewpoint of farmers. There's been a detailed review of all the timeliness, but I would like to review a different time line, the timeline of this case here at the council. On May 8, the bill was the highest. Agricultural and agricultural ministers are submitted to the General Assembly. This import was expected to be allowed at one time. [[Up front.]] Well, then, on June 11th, the bill is on a committee. I guess it's past midnight, so it wasn't yesterday, it was yesterday. It is with this adjustment proposal, after a discussion on the committee, and a sharing of things. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otter's son Proppér, to do this in two years instead of one. People accepted that. Then comes yesterday, i.e. Tonight. Then there is a new committee opinion, with a new proposal, where the whole mass is taken back. What is the reason? The fact that some parts of the past, part of every government, at least No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Agricultural minister and president of what? The Economic and Business Committee was light and light. Councilmen on the pro board. All of it was a cypress. Then today, people want to pull it all back. Then it must be reasonable to ask: If the case took place at first, yesterday men received a vision of all these broken promises and all the problems that would arise in prayer. Minister and then more of the Committee this morning? What happened? What vision was given to humans? Were there any people in the standup? What new information was provided? I'm having a very hard time understanding this, I have to say it quite frankly as it is. Why the hell did it fall? In view of what you are now talking about with great madness, how would a marine dignitary minister consider bringing this bill over his head? How on earth did a greater part of the employment committee come up with an opinion of the committee with a new proposal last night when he knew all of this? And how did this come to mind now? Did they fall before that light? Did they receive a vision? I don't understand anything about this. Ways to this highest. Governments are very difficult for me, but I'm nothing but mortal man and maybe there's a very normal explanation for this kind of work. [[The president calls.]] But I don't understand.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-79.u5	A respectable president. I'd like to reiterate what I've mentioned before, so I would have given the council more time to discuss this important matter, and I agree. Councilmen who have mentioned that this was a short period of time to discuss the matter. However, this has not prevented a number of proposed changes to the bill approved by great agreement, all of which have been very subtle. I want to say thank you. A top-of-the-art Board of Education for a very good partnership on this subject. Then what? Senators who are very interested in the matter of personal protection, I would like to say that humans can expect to have more of that in the immediate fall. The discussion of personal protection is entirely out of the question.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-79.u6	Honorable generals. The work of this council is now completed. This has been a rather short assembly. We didn't get together here until December 14, after the election's election, three months later than the regular assembly usually starts, and there was another half a month off because of local elections. As expected, these circumstances have shaped the work of the Parliament. The government had less time to prepare a case for the Council. Thus, the Constitution of the government submitted at the beginning of the council was, in effect, a summary of cases in progress that might appear before the council rather than a realistic task list. This situation has also shown better than any other need to add communication between the government and the Generals to government contributions. In the mid - April period, the prime committee and members of Congress had a practical meeting with the prime minister. Clearly, there are two main burnings in these matters. The first is to change the process of processing within the Council of Congress and to set up reimbursement and new issues. This ensures that the revised cases begin early in the fall, but they do not delay until Christmas or spring. On the one hand, there has been a request that the Government Constitution be updated regularly on the board of the Council and be sure that it was a practical description of the development of the situation. This would increase awareness during the council planning, but after that it is called on by members of Congress. They naturally want to be able to plan their time better than it is now possible. V.E.G. As a result, I hope to see changes in the subject at the next assembly. The Parliamentary Organization and procedure here at the General Assembly also need to be reviewed, including ... toexperiencisepredictation in the Senate. The same is true of all members of Congress. This led to the conclusion in March. to set up a working group to handle these matters, and he is also appointed by the President one representative of the management forces and others from a position of government. The group has already come together for writtens and plots, but because of other members of the council, they have not been able to complete their jobs. Nevertheless, I believe that in the past, both in conference discussions and in the working group, there are some good ideas that are important in working further out. I have resolved that this work will continue at the fall council. Certain items have already been performed, such as to send in the presidents of every body of Congress at the end of each week the Monday program and schedule a meeting for the next week. I believe that was an important stage when the Council adopted a code of ethics for the Generals over two years ago. But the code of ethics should be a living document, so I would like to express my joy with the changes in ethics adopted by the Council a few days ago. This change includes the clear and direct response of members of the Parliament to the open discussion that has taken place in Icelandic society and including the political community. The change is made clear that members of Congress will strive to create a healthy environment within and out of the council, where they will carry out their duties and that sexual harassment will not be tolerated, let alone violence. I believe that the open discussion that took place at the barbershop house held in February II. of political violence and harassment, it has been shown that the generals are deeply concerned about these matters. This year Iceland and I have rejoiced in many ways throughout the country as long as 100 years have passed since Iceland became a free and sovereign state. The General will gather on this occasion for a meeting at the Parliament's 18th of July, but on that day, a century ago, the Treaty of Iceland was concluded and signed here in this house. The meeting will be in the open air, as it was before when the United States Assembly has met at the Þingles on holiday and memorial occasions in the nation's history. The aim is to have all the application of the assembly that day modest and modest. A direct broadcast will be made from the conference, so all the people of the country can observe the ceremony. In preparation for the meeting, the Aldus Office has had very good cooperation with a number of members, such as the government's conduct, the office of State Marshals and various police offices, the Vegas, the National Park on the Þingalthala, the Parliamentary Commission, the State Radio, and various members of the Council. It is based on the date before the Þingvalle Summit, i.e. July 17, shall the General Assembly assemble at the General House to discuss and prepare their final payment on the case or the issue to be finally approved at the Capitol on this occasion. I'm asking senators to keep this in mind, as well as that members of Congress may need to meet earlier on this matter. It is my earnest wish that political leaders maintain a solidarity on a case that will be settled at the meeting. More events follow the Summit for the anniversary of the year. Thus, Danir will conduct a large program in the early October of Copenhagen. Then the government represents the celebrations of December 1st, the date when the treaty between Dana and the Icelanders went into effect. I also want to use this opportunity to draw attention to myself. General members of one of three events in the autumn months for the reasons to encourage them to participate: It is the first democracies and public conventions to be held at Akureyri in the days of 7,◯8. September. This is a Norwegian tradition, which hopefully also becomes a place in Iceland, a policy of subversive movements, public organizations, politicians, the educational community, etc. This event is now held in Akureyri for a second time, but it was once held in and at the Norwegian house in two places. Second, it is the Ringboard of the North, which will be held in the Harp of the Days, in the 19◯21 C.E. October, which has been developing in recent years the world's largest and most fear - inspiring stage for discussions about northern regions. And, finally, I want to remind you of a group of women leaders in politics that Iceland has now taken on as hosting, at least. for the next four years. That convention will now be held here for the second time toward the end of November. I want to finally do the final design of the office building here on the fields, and I hope that this year's soil work will begin. This new building will lead to an enormous change in the work of members and employees, the committees, and, indeed, the entire council. When we add to the funds now committed in the budgets of the current year and in a new financial programme for the next five years to promote the General Assembly and other supporting services, to add council services, and to help with members of Congress, I believe all reasons to look forward with optimism to the future on behalf of the General Assembly. At the end of the council, I'd like to thank all members of the council for their cooperation. Though it is normal for members of Parliament to differ, here at the Council, there has been a general spirit and a rich cohesion, and I want to thank you for that. In short, this council has accomplished much and led to success in many major issues. A total of 84 key points have become legal, and the council has agreed to 29 conclusions. I give special thanks to vice presidents for their excellent cooperation with the council board, as well as the presidents of the classes and council members for a very good cooperation. I thank the Office managers and staff of the Generals for their assistance, and very much good work and cooperation in the area where there has been much progress, especially in these last days. I wish the out-of-town people a nice return visit, a happy return home, and I expect all of us to meet together at the next month's meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-79.u7	V.E.G. President. I'd like to represent the Generals. The president and vice president thank you very much for our cooperation this winter and for our warm words to our senators. The last thing I want to say is thank you very much. Presidents cooperate with us with members of the council. Although on occasion our meetings have been refreshed, the bang has never lasted too long. The experience and knowledge of the president of Congress have been helpful. I would also like to thank the Generals for their good work and willingly provide assistance. The people of the Generals show us the people of the Parliament, the people of the press, the patient and kind ways, and are always willing to seek solutions and give full assistance, and for this we are grateful. politics is under way, and the last decade has been violent. All of us want public confidence in the Council and hope that by our work we will gain the confidence needed to create the greatest peace in the community. We deal with the situation in this hall because hopes and expectations do not mix, emphasis, and ways we would like to take on large issues that vary from small to small. Our work for the nation is of great importance to a willingness to communicate. Those means we must always keep open. Thank you to our highest degree. General Assembly Presidents and staff, asking members of the Parliament to say my words by getting out of their seats. - [[Senators rose from seats.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-79.u8	Thank you. 6th. South, Yaddny G. Oddný Harðardóttir, warm words and good wishes for me. Thank you. All councilmen for accepting what it says. I'd like to say thank you to the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-79.u9	Iceland's number tells: That, according to the approval of the Generals, I am authorized by the prime minister to postpone the discovery of the General Assembly of 148th, from June 12, 2018 or later, if necessary, to July 17, 2018. To Reykjavík, June 11, 2018. The Guðni of Th. Jóhannesson. Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. Presidential Letters for Pronunciation of General meetings By this request and by references to the approval of the General Assembly, I declare that the Council is postponed to the Council. I thank the members of the Generals very well and happily cooperate, thanking the general members of the council to provide meaningful communication during this council. As indicated by the letter of the President I have read here, the General will meet at the subsequent meeting of July 17th. and on July 18, as shown in the case of the President, a meeting will be held for the 100th anniversary of the Reich, where we will meet and not only remember what the sovereignty has brought us but also what the future can bring us as a sovereign nation. I wish senators and their families a happy summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-79.u10	This session will now be held for the final discussions on the part of the hearing. But a vote will be postponed and any rest will be given to this meeting for a committee meeting. [[Foreground on: Must...]] As far as they can be discussed. It will be over then, but it will be held off and interrupted. [[Up front.]] Then we'll come back to the votes, and we'll start another meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-79.u11	Mr. President. I hereby recommend the employment committee's members' panels with a revised bill for the travel agency's legislation. The committee reenacted the bill after 2nd. and suggest some adjustments to correct this situation. Change of area 6 is being made. 4 mg. Section 8. in order to speak more closely in accordance with the rules of the bill on package travel and interconnected travel. An adjustment of the rendering of the 9th paragraph is also suggested. on information centres, on the one hand to reconcile expressions and, on the other, to dismiss a reference into terms that are no longer applicable, i.e. Protocol services and tourism managers. An adjustment of the wording 9 paragraph. It is suggested that information centres report their activities but not that the term should be registered or registered. Then an adjustment to the final language of paragraph 8 is proposed. since the original bill should only have referred to insurance according to the bill to the package travel and the interconnected travel arrangement. The Committee suggests that this bill will be agreed with these changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-79.u12	Mr. President. I recommend more than a part of the employment committee on bill to correct customs law, No. 88/2005, with subsequent changes. The committee reenacted the bill after 2nd. where the adjustment of the majority of the Committee to Article 1 will be made. The bill on deck. One hundred and ninety-nine was called again. Notes on the bill include Refer to bill to legalize the change in various laws in terms of legalisation of stock agreements. In a panel of more part of the employment committee at the 3rd Environment Agency. on this case it was referred to that the increase in the import term should be rapidly implemented so that the increase would all be carried out in the first year of the contract. There was also a reference to mutuality, so it was directed to the secretary to speed as much as possible access to milk products in the European Union's internal market. A discussion on this bill has shown that no formal discussion with the European Union on access to milk products on the internal market has been conducted. Clearly, the above - mentioned opinion of the majority of the employment committee was to apply to products that were not produced in this country and therefore would not be directly competed with domestic production. The majority of the shares, however, have been identified in a discussion on the bill that if it is realized, it will have a major impact on the production in the country. In the EU Treaty on agricultural products written under the fall of 2015, an additional number of cheese imports were reported to be distributed in four years. This bill suggests that additional volumes can be imported in one year. During the conversion of more of the Committee to the bill on panels. A total of 1,209 suggested a two - year period. The majority of it is clear that domestic production needs to increase the lead-in period for a similar change in milk import and that there is also a need to look for additional sources of access to the EU's internal market. A contract between Iceland and the European Union is two-sided so that, contrary to the import, the European Union was to have access to the market. The majority suggest a 1st paragraph. the bill will be removed, and this will not result in a faster induction of tollrots for cheese, but will follow the requirements of the EU and Iceland's agreement on agricultural products, which are expected to distribute in four years from the implementation of the contract. The majority point to the minister that prior to November 1, 2018, the assessment of the effects of the import equipment on cheeses protected by cultural symbols or by protected geographic markings will be performed in the Icelandic market and presented to a professional health committee. The review should take into account the opinion of those interested in them. The majority insists that the government speeds up as far as possible the European Union's access rights for milk products to its internal market. The majority suggest that the bill be agreed with the above change.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-79.u13	Mr. President. There's a lot to say on this subject. It is natural to have attended a meeting on the job committee now after more of the committee's meeting at that meeting, for 2. Around., forced a certain compromise on which a part of the government resistance was put into practice, which is called back. I thought in my simple mind, as I could in the past, that it was in order simply to support a prime bill. Agricultural minister. However, it was not quite so much now. Rather, it was as exaggerated as it was possible to shut down all the windows, let alone give liberal opportunities, the process of opening up as much as a part of a professional committee spoke for 2016, that the opening was shut for them, i.e. to increase the amount ton of tollquatans. I also held the meeting that a majority of the committee, i.e. The three government groups, the left green, forwarding party, and not least an independent party - no longer able to teach themselves to freedom and liberality, are clear with one case after another that is handled here at the Assembly Hall - would supply new information, some new evidence. No, that's exactly right. They shook here, saying, "No, there wasn't any new evidence, not a single document. But what does the meeting reveal? A lot of phone calls had been made from the northeastern district. A great deal of pressure has already been put on interest between discussions. It was a matter that we discussed earlier in the winter, and it was not for the committee to deliver it. Then it just got so good. A minister of Jehovah's Witnesses trusted himself in transporting it because it was a good thing in itself, for consumers, farmers, for an Icelandic community that has faith in international relations and cooperation, and for much of the business contracts or parts of the Committee members that are adopted with some purpose just before elections. Therefore, a minister took this case because it was a good thing. I thought the truth was, I've said before, that men would be willing to open up this tiny gap of liberality, freedom, confidence in the consumers, only pressured it, but that crack was shut and fluffed and it slided. Not just going through the compromise, as one of them. A senator in the greater part used himself before, and it was possible to agree, about two years, no, the whole thing was pushed back for four years. Every time it comes to taking a stand for freedom, the liberality, the state of Congress, the traditionality, the chaos. Don't trust that change is a driving force for progress, a force for innovation, a force for us to develop here. We have seen this happen in other matters, in other industrys, and in other fields in the industry that were faced with the opening up of international relations and belief in freedom and market. Then international relations were opened up. In 1972, when we joined EFTA, voices were loud that, for example, were loud. The Icelandic candy industry would fall off, just by number and all the work there was. What happened? The Icelandic candy industry was transformed. Practicality was observed in the article, and more variety was put on the market. For what benefit? Maybe just for dentists, no, especially for consumers themselves. The Icelandic product selection improved. I'm telling you, despite the introduction of foreign imports to the country, the market for Icelanders got better. Being part of the international world means that our environment in Iceland is getting better, it is not getting worse. This is true of all, whether consumers, farmers, or others, because the examples illustrate it. It's got the highest. A secretary of transportation talked about drumming. Yes, the drum is riding here powerfully. It's the government that has the prerogative of bringing in drumming. This is the right start, for we are now hearing it in another matter, that instead of saying that we're going to be dealing with our international treaties, we're talking more about canceling our contracts. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The most important deal we've ever signed is the EEA Convention. I'm just getting started. This was the first talk of this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-79.u14	Mr. President. When the issue was settled at 2 Cor. it was my understanding that there was a agreement to settle it in a way that was then spoken of, to overcome anxiety by taking care of the matter in two years, in two languages where there were 110 tons of cheese in each virtue. That would be a compromise that everyone could accept. Actually, I wasn't particularly comfortable with that compromise because I thought the bill in its original image was quite nice, opening up the additional import of cheese because it's what consumers want, to have access to good food from wherever they come from. Of course, at the same time, we should be inviting consumers out in the world, whether in the European Union or elsewhere, to have good Icelandic dairy products along the way. It's something that's developing. This is happening. True, this is possible, but it is happening. There's something that should, of course, spit into the palms of the hands with and give it a little more attention to selling our products to Europe than to always be in some Bgret-sting thing. All right. This agreement was submitted, and I was forced to participate and sign a commission because if I didn't, the deal would be taken up. I didn't particularly like it, but I did it with the advance I did. I thought it would be better than to let everything upset you. I thought it was honest. I thought that was an excellent result. And everyone would agree with that. Then comes some order from the Ministry that this adjustment proposal will not work. They pulled it back. There's a new adjustment proposal that's gonna break down half the bill. 1st par. with everything and even to the extent that the same title on the bill cannot even be used, the words must be removed from the title from the title of the cheese. Because it is no longer the source of cheese. Mr. President. This kind of work is unscrupulous, and it is a demeaning committee. I hate to see this conclusion because it's a worse conclusion for consumers. This is a worse conclusion to the world's liberal business. It's incredibly poor business with the Committee to decide this out of the water without any data, without any discussion, without any reason. Then there's what might be the most painful part of it, which undermines trust. The matter was not in the Congress Convention Convention because the matter was settled. Of course, people would have wanted to do this differently if they had been able to understand that some kind of message came from the Ministry. Minister of Kristján, Þór Júlíusson's son, that everything should be changed at the last moment when everything else was about to pass through the council. This is meant to cause the future, e.g. The next fall, when Congress negotiations come to our table, we can't assume that the government and the greater part will do anything because this little thing had to be changed right now. It's a small thing. It's a matter of doing things in two years or four. It's not even a lot of cheese involved. After all, it turns out to be 230 tons of fish in a cheese - drinking environment that goes into thousands of tons. Really, is this great trust really being offered for this small gain? This weakens faith in the process. This weakens our confidence in the opposition to government. They have been despite very good consultations and very good relations in many matters, but we cannot afford to trust in the political opposition if this is the case. I'm really worried about this. We are to do these things much better, and it would be wise for us to, of course, cancel the motions of the greater part of the case. That would be the first step. The second step would simply be that the majority of them both apologized to the extent that at least a course would take in order to build trust. If this goes through, it's in a lot of nonsense, because it was a betrayal of things that were completely explained until a few hours ago. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-79.u15	A respectable president. Just moments ago, we were agreeing to introduce a new personal protection law, GDPR, which goes on and on. it should be noted that users on social media and otherwise are not for sale. They're not the property of the companies. The consumers are not property that can be bought and sold. Why, then, do we still look at other consumers who go to the store and buy products that belong to the manufacturer or to the property of the manufacturer? We are not owned, we are human, and we have the right to freedom of choice. No one has the right to tell me how many hundred tons of cheese I can buy and whether I can eat it or not, or any kind of cheese. This is totally ridiculous. To underscore how ridiculous this case is, I'm going to bring an example here. For example, suppose Iceland's Ritual Association had a situation similar to that of farmers in Iceland. This might mean saying: "We want to put on a certain translation parvota and we want to ban import into the translated poets. Shall we start to figure out how much Andri Snær Magnason lost on Harry Potter? Or should we assume that if we had banned translations of foreign fiction, reading in general would simply have diminished? Because the amazing thing about competition is that competition often increases consumption. If we want to sell cheese, we should allow sales of all cheeses and as much cheese as possible. It's just common sense. People who prevent it avoid making progress, standing in the way of freedom. It is absurd to try to delay this trend for four years or no matter what people think of it. Does it really think it can stop this? We watch Trump on the other side try to shut down the international business. We know he's out of a fight. People do not turn their backs on those wheels, for international and international relations are in spite of the whole future. It is in the future where freedom begins. It's in the future that I'd rather live. And I can only say to the United States that if we were to shut ourselves off, shut down all options, the only thing would happen that the consumers would refuse to be property and simply move to Norway or any other country where there were more options. All I can say is that the way to strengthen domestic production is to strengthen it in a positive way, which is why we sponsor writers, not Harry Potter, against bans.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-79.u16	Madam President. I think they're discussing this matter as if they're making a statement to someone. It's natural like any other bullshit. If we are to measure freeness and freedom on the standard of open business, we have other countries, in effect, are better off than most other countries, including the rest of the world. Member States of the European Union. Is it not possible to claim that we have more liberal legislation when it comes to importing agrienvironments than the European Union? The customs deal we've been talking about tonight and earlier today is, of course, increasing our freedom, not limiting it. It is not being prevented from importing or reducing it. [[Up front.]] No. On the contrary. Based on the customs contract, there is a four-fold increase this year. And in four years, 11 times that. Many may think so little, but that is quite significant. When a major part of the employment board suggested in August 2016 that we should introduce the customs contract to the European Union faster than was agreed, i.e. In one year, one presupposed. It was that mutuality was in business. That is what we insist on, that there is mutual agreement between us and other countries. Free trade agreements are just on the basis of mutuality. We're opening up the business, mutual business. A panel of more part of the job committee by the end of August, and a few weeks later, if I remember correctly, the committee suggested that we try to speed this up. That was a solid agreement. At the same time, however, they were directed to agrienvironmental ministers for access to the European Union's internal market for dairy products, which will also be accelerated as far as possible, i.e. our dairy products. And they may have left the top of a magazine in that area. The Minister of Agriculture has been committed to this. Perhaps for the sake of the election, nothing happened for the rest of 2016. However, there was time to start at least work to ensure mutual access to the European Union's market at the end of the last year's dairy products. It wasn't done. According to the information I have received, no such work began in the 2017 Department of Agriculture. So there was no more interest this year in the government or in this room than it was considered worth trying to initiate discussions and preparing to ensure that mutuality would prevail in relations with the European Union at the time of this customs agreement. It is necessary to keep this in mind. Madam President. We can certainly continue to discuss our policy in general when it comes to agriculture. There's a lot of problems there. [[The president calls.]] I have, for example. I believe that he does not serve farmers or consumers. [[The president calls.]] That's why. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson on his assignment to revise the livestock contract. [[President (BrH): The president asks why. Councilmen showing respect for the hour of speech.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-79.u17	Madam President. I don't really know exactly where to begin with this case. Many things have been said, and much has been discussed, but in some respects, in this matter, I cannot help but say that I have been seriously disappointed. But I don't think most words have the least responsibility in this regard, but I've already taken it up specifically with the President and the Chairman of the Committee and the Committee itself. It's an Ironic thing to be discussing this case here, exporting Icelandic production and other such. By permission of a president, there is a front page of reports that MS is opening up in Russia in the Communication Union. Puts it in a little fun context. But in short, the discussion has been so that I just don't know if the greater part of the committee is coming or going, so many times the Independence Party has changed its mind, and you are a little thinking about the whole arrangement. Of course, it would have been best if the previous employment committee had just finished the case and all this mess hadn't happened, but I think it's clear and necessary, like the highest level. The minister suggested that the case be closed and corrected. It would have been best before the council. But the situation is what we are today, exceptionally peculiar. Although people in the side halls obviously find it very funny and amusing, I cannot say that I have anything special sense of humor about it. In this case, I feel that the respect of the council has given me a small amount of something off the table.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-79.u18	Madam President. We should remember that the origin of the instigation of this matter was to be accelerated. from payment of more than a part of the work board since 2016. Then everything was blown out of the agricultural agreements that had not worked well enough, those who had not been able to get enough solidarity, worked on that solidarity in the council, much less in the community, and was short in elections. That advice was shocked even. Self - centered members of the Committee, because they recognized the most serious situation, the need for further reconciliation with this important matter, the importance of agricultural deals that are extremely important to farmers and consumers in the country, that they are well made and contented for them. However, the methodology was not at peace. Hence, it was added to a greater part of the employment committee at its time that the induction should be accelerated, which is exactly these 230 tons of special cheese and others to meet the views involved. This is a case to make up the current Council members of the Southwestern district, members of the Independence Party, made a big claim in the 2016 campaign that they had achieved tremendous success in opening up their freedom. The consumers are about to be met. Now, when this case is discussed, it was reasonable that the job committee would just move the case to push it forward. I simply thought, in my simple mind, that solidarity ruled over it, and I strongly held that a minister wanted to pick up the case himself and move it. Then comes some babb into the boat, there are some human forces, especially it seemed to be in the government advance, even though there are others, but mostly this Aggressor, which was in its time with the Department of Agriculture. I respected it well at one time. A senator, Kolbeinn Francis Óttarsson Proppér, who worked on certain compromises that could be carried out by more people. I thought she'd narrow the case, but fine, to meet the forward party. I had no idea. I just didn't have the idea that the Independence Party would jump on that wagon and be harder in its demand after all the prehistoric efforts, after being proud of having achieved a certain result of 2016. I had no idea that it was the independent party that was most determined to have the recording so that it would become four years, i.e. that the induction would take these four years. All right. It's on the paper. People know about this. Then you come up here and you say this one and the others don't talk about freedom and it's like this or gay. All right. We've been facing a lot of test stones. One is the one, for example. which I would love, but I have not received any support, not from the government groups and, most certainly, the Independence Party, to introduce general competitive laws in the milk industry. Has it been subject to the mention of Russia just before the Icelandic milk industry, which needs these restrictions? Do you really need to be the one-on-one present today? Why don't we let more small spades that are starting to take root here get a little more space now by allowing a general rule of competition? Do you believe that freedom and competition will only go further? This will be a test stone in the next winter, because once again the case is being put to sleep on a committee, because at Welbourn, we offered a proposal for that subject, but it did not get a soundground. One more chance for those who are or have considered themselves freedom and competitive people. But they fail one test after another. Then there's the other, and it's also just a lesson I take - it's natural just fine, despite being an experienced football player here at the council - into negotiations that will occur next year at the administrative point. I think it's gonna be like thinking about asking for everything written in the future from the top of the board. If you do not mention or point out certain matters that you trust to do in the way that has been worked out, if you do not point them out, then you are at risk of being in control, and if you leave them, change them, and then come back to us who trust in them and believe that they have taken a certain course. I don't think it's a good-looking thing. I don't think anyone's gonna calm down. I don't think it's easy for me to think that more part of the employment committee is now coming between the 2nd and 3rd. with no data and a retraction of any additional recommendations, and suggest delay of induction or slowing down the introduction of this other important contract. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm sorry, and I'm sorry about this work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-79.u19	Madam President. I'd like to review how the contracts have been and why the greater part seems to me to be compromising the agreements that have been achieved, though, only the most successful I've experienced during this council. I haven't been here very long, but I've had a lot of these contracts, and they're at least... two a year. The president who has been doing this has given ample space for the council presidents and presidents to sit down and discuss their conclusions. The committees have been able to make good time to work in between, to complete and settle matters, and this has done relatively well. On the other hand, what's going on right now is that in these contracts, the issue of which one wants to fly was set off, i.e. about what you might say: It can't go through like this, and then you sit down trying to figure out a solution, find some kind of landing that everyone can accept. The reverend decided not to flaunt this case because she trusted it, and also the Pirats, that the changing proposals that had come forward and make things better. Now it is said: As a result, the agreements did not fit in. But that means "woe." paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir mentioned earlier, that it will be all a matter to be under the fact that the more part will not change matters afterwards, cases that are in a certain place with adjustments from the greater part, after contracts have been reached, and say: "Now we'll take this adjustment that did the right thing and will change the case in a way that we know you couldn't have accepted at the time of the agreement. It's not working. I'd say it was in a very gray area when it comes to making a deal with people. This means, as the Þorgerður Katrín mentioned, that next time everything will be beneath you. You can't be sure that the issues we make and are agreed on because the administrative body has decided to take the course to change the subject so that they will go on a path that is clearly something we cannot accept. This is what I wanted to go over and document here what the situation was in this case. That is exactly what has happened. At the end of the 12th hour, the clock is now missing, and in the last hour or the last two, the matter is being changed. The more part shakes back its adjustments, which he had laid out that did the good thing and makes the matter bad. It's not a very high moral level. It's very crying about negotiations. We can't accept to write such a deal in the future, so from now on everything will be written. Why does this happen? You've heard a lot of stories about what I'm not going to do, but this kind of negotiation is not going to work out when it comes to getting back together.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-79.u20	A respectable president. Here people have spoken about a very important matter, freedom of business. It has to be said, as it is, that the person who comes in here and gets close to the Independence Party for not having been in the way of such things is the least mistaken. Let's just quote the facts, not some talk on the air. Who killed Iceland going to EFTA? [[Take it up to the common party.]] The common crowd, yes. The common band was a small band, a respectable president, and he could not do such a thing in his own esteem. EES? [[Take it up to the common party.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Yes, sir, a respectable president, it's fine to know that a class of about 10% did all of this, but it didn't work exactly that way. It was independents who had the advantage. Actually, the big thing is that makes Iceland and I have 90% tax freedoms during, for example. The European Union has 26% of the fact that the Independence Party cooperated with the forwardness category for preventing customs and fairs. This means that if we went to the European Union, we would go from 90% to 26%. These are the facts. You can have all the opinions about how these matters are being held, but if you agree that a tax agreement is the way to freedom in a business deal that I think is right, you can ask: Who made that deal? That was in the days of the Independence Party and the forward party. Is there any reason to do anything other than live up to that agreement? No, of course not. What was determined, however, was to meet certain criteria, to perform certain counter measures, and thus to speed up the import of cheeses, and there is no small increase. The import goes from 100 tons to a total of 610 tons. Specialized changes were from 20 tons to 210, no less. In order to comply with the opinion of the council, certain counter measures had to be performed. It was on tape at the highest. Agricultural minister. The issues of the State Department we've had to deal with, and of course we've been doing when we've had some business with them, were trying to negotiate with the European Union to speed up the introduction on that side too. The European Union is very hard to deal with, and we have had to work at it. No such request was made. I've had it checked in my department. When it came up today, I did not recognize it, and it did not. Right away. Councilmen claim to speak for freedom of business, and criticize at the same time the current government and the former government for being in the so-called Bgret-sti-sting, like the whatnot. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy said, instead of focusing on selling to Europe, it is worth pointing out that last time I knew, Britain was in Europe and actually our biggest market in Europe. In both governments I've been in, there's been a total agreement to put first to make sure that we could continue to sell in that market. Since then, we have made major changes in foreign services and have brought a bill in Iceland to continue selling to other European countries, which is extremely important. I wanted to make it right here because no matter how people feel about how people do these things right now, and I'm sure they can be criticized, let's play it right when we talk about freedom of business. If people really are talking about freedom of business, let them support it all the way but not be getting in the way of matters that are going to strengthen our position as an export people of utmost importance. A respectable president. I hope the conclusion is that we are free to do business. On the other hand, we need to recognize that if we are to reach another market, we often have to negotiate with other nations, in most cases, and government laws. We know that the European Union is very rigid when it comes to such agreements. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-79.u21	Madam President. It might be nice to have a good time. Minister of Foreign Affairs, Guðre Þórðarson, has reviewed this important concept of freedom of business in view of the fact that it is exactly what I have been speaking for here, that we reject this ridiculous change proposal for more part of the employment committee so that it can just be opened to business freedom in the form of importing these cheeses. In fact, in view of the fact that the Minister spoke of the tax freedom we live in Iceland, I generally believe that to bring down the customs of a single-sided state to other countries, when trying to create better conditions for exporting goods that are produced there and, of course, are to try to do all these things two-sided. Now, in this case there has been some agreement with other countries to collapse or to cut scurvy to some extent. And it can be seen on the numbers as well. I have excellent numbers from Iceland's Habitats taken up by the Iceland Institute where there has been an increase in overall milk production, not quite stable, but mostly in 2005-2017. True, this may look down a bit at the moment, it may be because of a strong crown, but the general situation is that we are doing better. Of course, we should be able to open up a little lower toll on cheese products in that context. This may be the case, e.g. in 2017, the data show that our main perfusor country, the Netherlands, was exported to 300 billion. K., to Britain 160 million, to the United States about 70 million, to the Faeroe Islands about 70 million, and to Switzerland about 40 million. It is combined at about half a billion times. in an estimated air export. That's pretty good for me. True, a few years ago, when Finnish people began to produce similar products, our landscaping collapsed. And that is, in part, because of the lack of national rights protection and commitment protection of the term "symbky shirt, so we are on our feet because that particular mail has not been carried out by our foreign partners through the years. Nevertheless, when we look at the whole picture, we are looking at a marvelous changed situation in international trading in which countries are competing to bring in a penalty and a talisman on all sides. Thus, it is essential that we look at such matters as this as an opportunity to be only different and not fall into this unbridled pulaism, which makes communities move away from each other for the first time in a very long time. That's how you could, for example. ... becauseit's ridiculous, it's bad, it's not for improving the situation here. We get the exact same results, but the difference in one year and four years, or two years and four years, is wonderful. Who he is for the national advance, I didn't quite calculate it before I came into this speech, but it's clear that when we're talking about the total production of one person - the latest number I found was from 2012 - one party, MS in Akureyri, was producing 3,000 tons of cheese. There are more members, and the year is no longer 2012. We have a considerablely open cheese market, and much more is happening. But I need a precise number on how much cheese is produced, but I would guess about 10,000 tons to be very moderate in it. Opening 230 tons today would not make much difference for the manufacturers, but for consumers, this would be a revolution because it would increase products in an acceptable way. You could talk a lot more about this, now I'm running out of time, but the key point is, we're adding to the export of dairy products. We should open more of the import, especially of cheese, and, of course, we should do better in international transactions in a way that can be done. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-79.u22	Madam President. V.E.G. A minister of state should rather use his time and political ties to locate an Icelandic citizen who has disappeared in Northern Syria possibly from the Turkish Army. I hope he can make good use of his relationship with Erdogan and his friends. He should not undermine the heritage of the Allied Party, which is truly much more active than the Independence Party has ever been, with some vision and courage to pursue, but the independent tribe always reminds us of a large flock of sheep that follows a single leading sheep. People are talking about freedom here. I think that men wanted to go further, that's not it, but then they've just lacked courage, and now they're pulling their feet, spinning and walking behind their words. It's kind of funny to watch it and funny to hear men react, you hear if you've hit some delicate nerve when they talk about it. Otherwise, I must say, I've been through this one day at the council that there are several offenders in this business, and I'm sorry. Clearly, there is no trust, and there is no absolute honesty. I've seen members of different categories of members of different groups, and I've been bitter about it. It is possible that there are four forward groups at the council, but one of them, for some reason, is not allowed to be in charge, and that is the greatest movement team at the same time. I don't really understand.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-79.u23	A respectable president. Perhaps at the beginning of the talk, the berries are already sour. What has been observed, and was shown well in the speech of the highest. The minister of foreign affairs, was simply that he had never received a request from the Ministry of State to enforce the General's desire to speed up the induction process and thus increase the speed of the freedom we are about to initiate. It is awkward to listen to the highest. One former agricultural minister gives an inspired talk on this subject and wondered why it has not been put to work. There's a particular research subject that I think may be able to sit a little after that day. There is no doubt a valid explanation for this, but what has happened here today is that the council has taken care to apply it as it has previously agreed. Our role is to be custodians of the one approved here in August/September 2016, to work on the eight main points as a majority of the employment committees then and the General Assembly agreed. One of those points was exactly the one that has been exposed to failure. That is the reality that we should not try to compromise. Why was that? Why was the Ministry of State not sent a message from the Department of Agriculture to follow up on this issue? Why was it so that when the present level? In the early December of December, agrienvironmental minister took over what would have been followed by the points that the General concluded in the implementation of a tax agreement and the approved domestic agreements, it was more and less unattracted? It's just that way, I can pretty well testify to that. I accepted that assignment along with Brother Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir, why. A former senator here, to go to that work on February 7th. The reality is that after that time there is nothing left. We have wasted weeks and months in enforcing what we had discussed and approved at the General Assembly. That's why we're in this position here today. Sad but not unexpected, let us take up the agricultural discussion with no more depth than we often do. I'd like to say what. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthyr to think about the production and stuff like that: A senator, but I remind you, we're talking about 230 tons of special cheese made in Iceland, it's not tens of thousands of tons, and it's 230 tons of special cheese, and it's about them. This was not clear, however, when much of the job committee was discussing the issues of this special section. Hence, the majority view is that there are special cheeses that are not directly competitive to domestic production. That scaffolder was struck at that time. Nothing is being betrayed. No words are being said. It is simply taking the discussion inside the chamber and taking care of the points previously discussed and approved by the General. That's the reality of it. We found out that almost nothing had been done. In many ways, the discussion has been very illuminating on this subject and the information presented here, as shown in the talk at the highest level. Secretary of state before. It is natural for us to appreciate freedom and freedom in Iceland and to measure it in meat and milk in kilograms. Is that not a special standard of freedom? For example, in Iceland the debate of liberality seems to be primarily about transporting more or less of agrienvironmental products. Yet, we have one of the most liberal customs policies in agriculture in the part of the world that we would like to compare ourselves with. It was also well presented in the talk of the highest authority. Secretary of state before.
