ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u1	The president considers an agreement that may last longer, but the Convention states that it is in accordance with an agreement to complete this discussion and vote for a bill to be held in the budget after the end of the 3rd district. It's a k. Friday. The President intends to take a 15 minute break after the end of the 1st session, i.e. This is not only because of a meeting that needs to be made up of but also because of a meeting that has to be made up of a financial bill and for the preparation of a vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u2	There have been letters from the financial and economic secretary and secretary of transportation and rural administration requesting every time to provide written answers to panel requests. 405 on tax drive, from SeymundÞorsteinn Sæmundsson, and on the threshing floor. 445, on income and charge of Istavia at Keflavík Airport, from Steindór Valdimarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u3	Mr. President. The government's treaties refer to making the international flight more efficient. It is therefore a joy to see that a group of flight crews and domestic growths have yielded good and interesting proposals for transport and rural management. The Outfit task force under the leadership of the others. paritaprevir The northern Njáll of Trausti, the Friðbertsson of Friðerbert, sets in even. Emphasis on equalizing the availability of all the inhabitants of the country to the services offered only here in the capital area and offers proposals to provide air tickets in the national airport to people living in foreign areas away from Reykjavík. In addition, it is suggested to improve the economic sustainability of airports in international airports and to extend a contract with Istavia on the operation and construction of airports for the next five years. It has long been called for from the inhabitants of the areas of the most remote capital area that are viewed as a part of national transportation. Today, flying within the country is inexorably expensive, ranging from 40,000 to 60,000 k. for an individual up and back to Reykjavík. People need to attend a variety of services, such as health care, shops, and other aspects of the administration in the capital area and all that is part of education, culture, and all government. I am so happy that we are taking this step in evening the public bioavailability of service in the capital area, trusting that the proposals will be closely followed by the secretary of transportation and that the government will implement and finance these proposals for 2020. Air travel is supposed to be part of a public transportation system in the country, and this is a step in the right direction. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u4	V.E.G. President. The government of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir does not own 1,100 million for the poorest people in the country, but it has 1,500 million to pour into bankrupt ohf. which has long been known to have been headed for bankruptcy over bad business. From 2011 onward, this warning was given. But while the poorest people in Iceland still have to wait for justice to come from this government, there are 1,500 million people who are supposed to be caved in, at 3rd. Money. Iceland e-mail. without any observation or any requirement for evaluating this operation. There is no requirement, but these 1,500 million should be delivered from the treasury. This may be an example of how this Ohf operation, founded a few years ago, has completely turned into human hands. There it is pulled out of the parentheses of large business factors owned by the state - yes, in control but without the presence of any elected representatives with the votes of the people behind it. We'll see this in business too. That's where 500 million should be poured, clearly. This is so crazy, Mr. President. And while this is going on, we're going to agree to support some 1,500 million, about a violation of reconciliation made last February. I have to say, Mr. President, that I am deeply concerned that we are here to make a decision like this without any requirement that this company's business be taken for any careful consideration, as it would be necessary to do. However, while waiting for the poorest people in Iceland for justice by the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u5	A respectable president. In these last and worst times, good news sometimes seems to be a bit deep, but one good thing is that at the beginning of this year, 43,736 immigrants were living in Iceland or 12.6% of the population. This is an increase from the last year when they were 10.6%. It's nice to see how many people choose to make Iceland their home and be welcome to these people. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] These people are always highly underestimated. Impartials are the spindle in many of the basics. It would be here, for example. Hardly the travel service without these people. In addition, immigrants work a lot of the invisible jobs that keep society going. I just mention the nurserys that are often fired by women in a low-paying state of the foreign state or the people who clean the hospitals for such a small amount of pay. Sadly, this diversity of society is not reflected in a chamber. A year ago, political winds turned, and we lost Pawel and Nichole, replaced the Middle Party. It wasn't a good farm. Iceland is a free and sovereign state as a permanent member of the international system. In the future, we need to open borders, and in particular, we need rules that will help people outside the EEA to settle here. By the time Iceland became sovereign, there were 90,000 people living here. At the beginning of this century, we were about 280,000. Now we are 350,000, but thanks to the native Icelanders, there are so many growths in natural growth that we rely on a foreign population to continue growing. According to the prophecy of the Haust Room, after 50 years, we will be only 436,000. [[The president calls.]] We need more. We even need a policy on how we become a million to make Iceland more populous and varied and better. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u6	Mr. President. We can freely debate whether the glass is half-full or half-empty, but we must be happy when the state's status is heard by the state's trust that recently bought a debt of Iceland's Secret Bank totals a total of 24 billion, so the total debt of the state is now 843 billion or about 30% of land production. A state fund clean on the basis of government law on government funds, i.e. So when funds and deposit have been withdrawn from the total debt, some 653 billion are involved. This is 23% of GDP and has been completely replaced in the financial affairs of the past few years, which is a source of great joy. This is a cause for joy, especially for young ones who observe that we as older ones have stopped making money. We've stopped taking the standard of living for generations to come. On the contrary, we're building again. There is good news, and it is something we should promise ourselves, and especially to the younger ones, that we will continue to do faithfully. The nation's clean standing has never been better than at this time, 13.13% of land production. This is good news. This is what we should have in mind. This is now important today, possibly until the night when we face up to the end of the 2019 budget. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u7	A respectable president. I was going to talk about their desperate and unfortunate situation right before Christmas during this talk, but I am moved to speak again about the Cruces. As a result of today's discussion, I would like to make a special point that we are already in need. A member of the Central Party, Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunulsson, says that there is a general debate at a council like the one in that field, as he would like to say, in this bar, it's not so, and it's never been in the year I've been here. I've never heard this conversation. Lineing it over to everyone else is amazing. Being under that discussion is kind of strange and embarrassing those who are trying to justify it. You can't justify it. Now the women's movement, the Bank of Destiny, has issued a strong statement. I'm rooted in the Corporate Community and self-suspecting. I have never had such a discussion in my workplace. I've never been out of here and been in a bar this year I've been here. I just don't usually go to a bar. Besides this, it must drink in hours of work to be one of the most serious things we do, and it's a disgrace for everyone. I've never seen it here, except in this case. Let us be clear that shame is theirs and every attempt to bring it upon us will fail, and we will never tolerate it. They can look in the mirror. They are ashamed and should handle their affairs. Don't get them over us. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u8	A respectable president. I get used to saving big words because I want to let people enjoy the doubt. During the past 24 hours, however, a world of convergence has twice seen a language that deserves a big word. Those who have the words either have not read what they criticize or willfully lie. This is a talk given on the one hand. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson yesterday and on the other hand, e-mailed by CSPII by the United Nations on a secure, organized, and regular transport of people, in English ◯Global Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regrinding Migration- Clearly, the idea that Iceland's independence is a threat to the United Nations is now to be developed and fed. I encourage senators to compare the criticism of the mail with the content of the agreement, as it shows best inculcating. The dishonesty must go on by anyone reading. Hv. A senator said last night that the agreement would open up Iceland's borders to nearly all the people of the world and be weighed into Western society. This is the same wording that led to the introductions of new foreigners, of course, nonsense, and so clearly. I am filled with feelings because every time foreigners jump to the political and political powerists, the flag of all the Icelanders, they wave to their hearts to protect Iceland's independence. What a load of shit. This agreement is about dealing overall with real problems that result from significant migration within each country's laws and circumstances, as it is clearly evident in the agreement when it is read. Clearly there's more to discuss here, though I can agree. Then critics could study the material rather than misuse independence and the patriotism of the Icelanders just to make their own political status their own. The production of inborn fear at the expense of important projects on the release of difficult problems is not a guard of Iceland's independence and, most certainly, liberal democracy values. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u9	Mr. President. I'd like to call attention to a report published yesterday. I've led a transportation unit on the construction of the airport system and the implementation of domestic flights. I call attention to the fact that this is a great deal of the government covenant that the present government under the leadership of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir was introduced a year ago, which included. notes that in recent years there has been a significant increase in flying size and flying-related activity. The work programme is an important Icelandic economy and is the foundation for development in tourism. The Treaty states that national transport will continue to be inhabited throughout the country and that the people should have equal access to services, employment opportunities, and living conditions. It's a lot in the spirit of the guy who turns to the Scottish route in what we agreed to in this hall in June. For a policy based program where one of the goals focuses on these factors. The second factor the report has to do with flying security issues in general and the structure of the airport system. We can now see this in the reviews of the transport programs on how bad we are about those issues, to form in the event that Istavia's comments on maintenance issues at the airports and the places where many of them have come to the point where they can be kept open. We see this in the reviews of the airlines, Iclanders, Weow air, about the status of the languages and the security committee of the Icelandic professional pilots. The situation on the U.S. airport system is very serious. It must be one of our goals here to ensure funding and building in the years to come that we can guarantee it. Now we've come to the point where tourism is based on these infrastructures. So it is absolutely essential that we go on this project and build them up and ensure them for the future interests of Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u10	Mr. President. In order to agree with the council how we handle the matter, such as the Council case, which was reported or complained to the Presidency Committee, one factor was involved in a document that was complained about the potential minister responsibility, i.e. that a minister had committed crimes in his work. So the people understand how these matters were being conducted by the prime committee was going to refer to the Committee of Nations all the matters except those that concerned the Minister's responsibility because these matters took place before the code of ethics was set aside two years ago. It's a good principle, just back to the Roman republic more than 2,000 years ago, that you don't punish people again, with retrospective laws. It's set up rules, so where does it sit? The Presidency Committee referred to factors, i.e. And the ambassador took away the other things. They'll go to the Committee of the Nations. So where is this minister's responsibility, a minister, not to abuse his situation? In a special conversation last night. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson was referring to the highest. The prime minister of Katrín the daughter of Jakobsdóttir spoke of the privilege of serving as a minister and of national responsibility. Came to the highest. The prime minister was not pleased with the national court order, but he mentioned that at the time of the government, the government agreed to set up a administrative and surveillance committee that had a responsibility for the monitoring of the European Commission and advisers in particular and could enter an investigation and even set up a research committees that she mentioned, as a matter of concern. The part of the case regarding the minister responsibility of Gunns Sveinsson, the highest. Minister, it should be possible to appoint a party as ambassador in exchange for pay, at home in the administrative and surveillance committee, and have a management commission to the chairman's initiative, Helga Vala Helgadóttir, agreed to call for the members of the committee, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnulsson, Bjarni Beneaksson og Guðuga Þór, why. and top, to take a look at it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u11	Mr. President. I would like to be prepared for the council to discuss an electrical situation. There's a lot of talk about an energy package. There's a lot of talk about the third energy package, but what I'd rather like to discuss is energy packages one and two, and what has been the experience with the rules that we implemented in the 2003 and 2005 legislation. We have a lot to do about finishing the work we started then, and maybe we should discuss it before we start bringing in more energy packages. The main purpose of the subsequent changes was to separate electricity production and electricity transport. We did, and we built a system around it in that we formed a Landsnet and took the main transport system out of Landing, formed it a society. Then we have diffusers, Roarik is one of the most proud, and we own more of them. These diffusers and the Landsnet work under the so - called income limits and therefore have registrations that are determined by a specific organization. Experience with these changes includes In particular, the development of electricity transport costs in the field of Raikks has since been in 2005•2017, so that while the index has increased by 82.5%, the cost of urbanisation in Raiks has increased by 44%, while the cost of distribution at Rark rural areas has increased by 102%. And at the Power Farm of the West, about 117%. The divorce is in this law to balance this budget from the state funds and to raise it at this time by about 30%. However, it does not achieve the targets of the law and will likely have to increase it by some 800,900 million more, just to meet the standards of the law. I believe that this arrangement must be cleared and repacked and moved forward with new solutions, getting rid of the holdings of these important organisations that are spreading electricity and achieving a better result than we have achieved so far. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u12	A respectable president. Last night, information on pay and the cost of working for senators was published in 2007. I would like to use this opportunity to commend the council for finally taking another step toward increasing the transparency and maintenance of citizens in the hands of members of Congress. The first step was to publish this information as soon as it came into existence. This is step No. 2 to display historical data. Of course, more steps must be taken. That's what we have models, e.g. can be seen in Britain, where any person can visit the dissociation of any form of IPSA, an independent observation agency for the council or the Independent Social Standards Authority. That's where I can, for example. saw that Damien Hinds was reimbursed for taking his own car in a district of 3.51 pounds on May 18, 2018. Last week, things happened. The statements of several senators became public, and all should be clear that this statement has to do with the Council's Code of Morality. The Presidency Committee responded quickly and acted on a moral committee. Last week, a prime committee supplied another issue that included public declarations that may be obvious to all to be relevant to the ethics of members of Congress. Yet, it was dismissed. The evidence clearly shows that it is not part of a senator's job to engage in a campaign, and hence he is not to be able to get trips for the campaign reimbursed from the council. I've been asking questions about the records of the council's campaign tours. It clearly shows that there is a significant increase in the rate of elections. After going through the election myself, I have not been aware that the demand has been for me as a senator but has been a demand for me as a candidate. So it should be obvious to everyone that such things cannot be classified as trips to the councilman's work. However, in spite of data and public declarations of reimbursement, the prime committee dismisses the mission as a violation of ethical principles. Other questions about the case are on the way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u13	A respectable president. Today is an international day of soil. Soil is what all life feeds on, and soil is a very important natural resource, and it cannot be replaced. I trust in thee, mighty dust. I'm a man who went out to see him. I chose me night. I chose a calm. When spring ran across the valley With President's permission, the poet Guðmundur Ingi, who was a farmer, understood the cycle of life. We are under obligation to cultivate and preserve the earth and return it to future generations. The pollen is but a thin shell on the surface of the earth. In it we feed most of the world's food production. But earth's population is growing rapidly, and unfortunately, this important resource of planet Earth is crumbling and becoming the target of desertification. For the council it is a proposal to promote agrienvironmental and marine eco-efficiency in cooperation with the Environment and Resource Minister to make a proposal for a change in the law or directive that aims to establish an impulse system so that landowners are benefiting from upbuilding land and preventing soil erosion from harvested tubes that are not absorbed in food. In Iceland's climate policy, it is one of the priorities to consider that land healing, as stated in the implementation programme for the year 2018-2030, by permission of Presidents: ▪ Few nations have as good an opportunity as Iceland's people to reduce land use emissions and promote carbon binding in vegetation and soil. It specifically says that the recovery of wetlands is an important factor in reducing emissions and the binding of carbon from the atmosphere by land healing and forestry. Icelandic farmers have shown a keen interest in land healing and carbon binding. A national body of sheep farmers has established a strategy for sheep'breeding to be leveled with carbon by 2027. This is a land transplant, forestry, and the recovery of wetlands. The Kingdom's land - healing work has been taking decisive steps to promote subsidiary and protection and to transport projects from land healing to the provinces under the cooperation of the Bavour project. That is an example of such an act.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u14	Mr. President. It does not represent the unique bulge of the Council to look only for the next few days, or even at times, dealing with a regional failure, which is often highly predictable. We're going to deal with crazy changes over the next few decades. Jobs will change, and the key to success in this new situation is to increase creativity, power, technology, innovation, and research. If we do not, we will not succeed. We need to develop individuals who can cope with new projects with new technologies and who will view the educational system in that light. Of course, it was a positive step to appoint a committee to discuss key threats and opportunities, and I rejoice over that. At the same time, I don't understand the government's cutback proposals, which suggest a reduction in funding for the research fund of the Scientific and Technical Council of less than 150 million between discussions. Mr. President. What Has Changed? In this one month, evolution and the future have hardly changed. This cut-off means 17% less input and 25 young scientists will disappear from this environment. We must put innovation, science, research first, and don't get up. Therefore, the union will provide a requisition of the budget, which brings back this reduction, and I encourage senators to prophesy only to us in the future and to support that proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u15	Mr. President. Foreign affairs and dealings with other nations are of great importance to us. All of us depend on good, easy communication with other nations. We are to be as valid as possible in cooperation with other nations in a work that has to do with the entire inhabited earth. In this context, I'd like to use this opportunity to mention two things. First, it is essential that we have a powerful foreign - language service, a class of outstanding people, including, of course, our ambassadors in foreign lands. The State Service Act states that her employees are divided into five major categories, and in the first category, there are Chiefs and ambassadors. 14th degree. The same law states that the laws on rights and duties of the government apply to those employees with the important exception, even though it is permitted to compromise the rules of the staff law that require vacancies to be advertised in a law-engineered newspaper. In my opinion, that parole is unnecessary. It only creates a risk of ill - treatment, risking other viewpoints to guide the decision of an ambassador than to get the most qualified one for the work at a time. As a result, I intend to transfer the bill to cancel this parole from the state service law. The other thing I'd like to mention is that I'm the highest. Secretary of State to confirm for Iceland's behalf the UN's urgent transport agreement, in English, with the permission of President, the Globe Compact for Safety, Orderly and Regrinding, which will be signed in Marakess in a few days. Of course, it would be best if Secretary of State immediately issued a declaration that Iceland will sign the agreement. Words brought down here yesterday are well - known in connection with the council's work on that contract.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u16	A respectable president. Last night, a report published on national flights and airports in view of the government's emphasis on national leadership was published. paritaprevir Njáll of Trausti, son of Friðbertsson. The initiatives made by the group in my opinion to solve a number of problems we have faced in order to form with respect to international flights, by giving extra weight to the city reserves in Reykjavík, Akureyri, and Eunice. This allows us to expect the projects necessary to take place at that stage. This will strengthen the field to render that service and the security it deserves. I would also like to remind you of the importance of opening up for small and medium-sized aircraft to and out of the country around the Hornground airport which is both support for the tourism sector and so much security for machines, to form on the ferry. The international flight is to be a part of the public transport process and is to be part of this report. The fact that you can get a flight to and out of the country through Keflavík Airport for the same price as general fare to the Hornafjörður, Isenafjörður, or Eglíl position is not an acceptable situation. Therefore, I warmly rejoice on behalf of the country's settlement that the so - called Scottish route has come into operation and has been proposed to take effect in 2020. The bioavailability of a continuous central service in the capital area should probably be for the entire population. In addition, the theater of all the people of the country, e.g. The National Theater, the band of all the Americans, the Symphony Orchestra, and the airport of all the people of the country, the main court, the Cheflavour Airport, are on its way, and it's good that we can earn a penny when we arrive at the Cheflavour Airport.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u17	Mr. President. News reports from the past remind us so clearly how far we still have to go in the equal talk. Of course, what you have to say as a man at a council is that you are, in effect, really beyond reason sad that this discussion has gone to this level. This underscores what has been such an important theme at the conference, at #meto and at the barbershop convention we stood for at the beginning of the year, in Iceland's contribution to the HeForShe-Mateak UN Women, just about the barbershop, that men are supporting themselves in the equal talk, that men are standing up in this discussion and saying, "We can't let this go down. We do not want to see such talk in politics or anywhere else. Of course, we know, especially in politics, that this is clearly endemic, and this is one of the main reasons why women usually last much less there than men, they encounter everything else, and much more ruthless, more sexual abuses in the political arena. This is disturbing, and I challenge every man at council that we join together to say, "No! That's it. That's it. It's gonna stop here. We can't allow such a woman's contempt, so amazing - a man just lacks words to describe it - to be passed here in the palace wall of the Generals. Stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u18	Madam President. This bill is one of the reasons for suggestions in the budget bill that we expect to vote on Friday. This is about raising costs and extending a number of provisional terms, such as the interaction between the disability benefits of social security and microenergy pensions and the increase in the cost of biofuels as a result of sectoral income insurance that the elderly can be used to run a nursing home and that the labour fund is not getting paid from the overall insurance budget in 2018, for example. There is no total thought and vision in these groups, but there are provisional regulations from year to year, though circumstances have changed considerably since they were first accepted. We in the United States will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u19	Madam President. There's a lot of things going right with this bill, but there's a lot of things that it's going a lot shorter than you would have hoped. There are two themes that mark the bill, one on the other hand, the continuation of the provisional provision that reduces the capacity of society to plan long-term and predict the future. It must be stopped from maintaining rigid provisional regulations and rather abetted. However, there is no need for the stages to be necessary to achieve long - term goals, perhaps especially in the environment. Clearly, there must be both positive and negative economic incentives to achieve our goals in climate and this is not enough to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u20	Madam President. The bill here for votes is to support the funds that have been carefully discussed here. As we hope that it is clear, a group of Revelations has built up a number of challenges to examine and describe the lack of direction in the area. So it is in nature that we will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u21	Madam President. Will the government handle the climate problem firmly? If so, the message must be clear, as is the rise in carbon pay. What is lacking in the government is timed goals with measurable steps. So the question remains, Is the government really serious about its action plan on climate matters and its practicality? If Iceland negotiates with the European Union on emissions by 40%, emissions in the first year of the Paris Convention must be 40% lower between 2016, 2017 and 2018. But is what is suggested here likely to be a practical step? There are no criteria, so we cannot answer that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u22	Madam President. This is where there is a reimbursement for financial expenses. Well, the banks, insurance companies and pension funds are supposed to pay less on the FME. FCE is to meet this by walking on their own money. This is a very unwise arrangement and will result in a reduction in the importance of financial monitoring. It has to be said at the moment, Mr. President, that it is all in the same book with Katrín's Jakobsdóttir's Government when it comes to the banks; all taxes and charges on banks must be reduced but cut off by the poorer and the elderly. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u23	Madam President. This is where the change in terms of application fees is being made and suggested that application costs do not increase according to general prices. The increase is only 0.32% but should be based on general prices of 2.5%. I think it's abnormal, I would have thought the application fees should increase in accordance with the prices update, but still support this increase, even if it's small. She should have been higher by my judgment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u24	Madam President. I'm just going to step up to 25. The law says that all employers should pay 0.13% of their stock and here's an extended directive that they pay 0.10%, not 0.13%. It would be closer to my decision to change the law if the government's will were to reduce this important price. Intensification has been growing, so it is very important to cope with the problem, not to impair the ability of professionals, as is done here, to cope with the problem. It would be interesting to know if this arrangement does not really add to the problems and costs of society. Is the solution to the government's view of improving the problem rather than solving it? It would be interesting to have a vote by the prime minister here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u25	Madam President. According to this, it seems that black oil will reduce its price and it will be more practical to burn it. Then you ask if you don't need to deal with the rise in carbon charge for burning black oil. I have to say, here, it proves with this proposal that the government is completely out in the field of these carbons.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u26	Madam President. Here's a suggestion for changes in regional transport laws. I don't think the bill is subversive enough, that in the report it is not convincingly showing that the bill has the desired results. It may as well be that those who enjoy transport today will carry a sharp object from a table. That said, I won't support this bill, but I'll be sitting by the vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u27	A respectable president. I have to admit that I don't know exactly if I'm on the correct paper to be on the platform, but I just wanted to reassign my position and the job committee that came up in a committee study to encourage the highest level. The minister of the jury to get started on the job as soon as possible to reconsider the affairs of veterinary surgeons and to base there on the reports that have been under way. This is a clear and unanimous impulse. Advisory to start that work as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u28	Madam President. This may not be part of the government's issues for the winter, but this is a typical matter that can well be held in prayer. It is about raising expenses or, in effect, raising taxes on a part of the article that she has asked for, in order to be reasonable. But I think it's far better to ask for the reward, and to consider the whole case, that this fund will be reviewed, for I believe that the article itself can agree rather than having the state funds involved or collectrs for it. Therefore, I believe that it is important to consider the purpose of the fund and its goals. I don't doubt that this article itself can do much better without the State's intervention. That's why I won't vote with this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u29	A respectable president. Since 2015, the main meeting of Long Men Askers and Horse Relations Council has requested this. It may seem worth waiting for some longer to respond to this extraordinary wish of a horse's prayer. I agree entirely with the views presented here that there is good reason to revise this payment. I'm sure it's a matter of time to go to the job, but I'm sure it's also a matter of time before I want the article to get out of the wolf crisis that she's been in because she hasn't been allowed to raise the price on herself as she pleases.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u30	Madam President. This suggests a change in the Ministry of Health with the related financial expenses for the state's funds without any evidence at any point in the case to which it should be returned. This is a political exchange that will eventually result in taxpayers'costs and, worse still, is a disappearance from plans that would bring substantial benefits to government funds in the form of improved cooperation and cohesion between Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health. I think this case shows a tremendous lack of overall vision of this important group of subjects, which explains more than half of the budgets, and it is extremely important that you keep it well in place. So I can't support this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u31	V.E.G. President. I'm celebrating this bill and because it's here for the final payment. I think that experience has shown that it is wise to distinguish between the classes of languages that hear under these two departments clearly. I think they will be better handled by the arrangement that is being proclaimed here than by what has been done. You're right. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson pointed out that these are lawsuits that will likely take to heart about half of the government's expenses. I think the work being put out here by separateness in the Ministry of Health and the Department of Social Affairs, on the other hand, will provide more targeted policies and administration in those areas. This is a turning point that was determined by a change in the 2011 constitution of the Council of Government, which I once opposed. I'm glad there's more in this room for turning back.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u32	Madam President. There is an adjustment to this synonym, which includes the fact that the Council presents a form of neutrality to this proposal, i.e. Rather than support this change, just say that it is not against the European Commission. My study and 1st of the Committee is that it is generally wise for a prime minister to consider these matters, but the laws are the way they are made. If this proposal is made, I will not support the original proposal, but will vote against it, since I do not support the expected change, but the law is the way it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u33	Madam President. It is this neutral proposal that we in the smaller part of the Commission and Control Committee recommend that the Allied Council agree, i.e. There is power in the hands of prime minister, how to divide counsel and act. Congress proposals are covered in many fields of purpose and content and the work to be done in any Ministry. I think it's right to say it here, because it's the highest. When we were discussing this, the prime minister was not in the hall yesterday, that many came before the committee, and expressed deep concern for the initiatives involved. I'm the highest. A minister to read the reviews given to the committee on this matter. Otherwise, I also encourage senators to support the change-in form of my share.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u34	A respectable president. At this vote, I'd like to use the opportunity to thank you. The Parliamentary Committee for Work on this Parliamentary resolution and the decision to be made. The views expressed in the modifications of my things are viewpoints that I can, in many respects, agree that in the best year - long trip, it would be part of the project. I think it would be a good idea if we looked at how this is in the Constitution. But I believe there's a very professional argument here. Here, we have two very sharp and clear talks about these two important issues. There's a diagnosis that the Ministry has examined, and I look forward to seeing both of these classes grow stronger in changing arrangements. But we certainly need to take a close look at specific groups of people, and I especially refer them to the issues of the elderly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u35	V.E.G. President. This proposal is taking back the changes made between 2009 and 2013, where four recruitments were dropped together at close cost, without money saving. The walk is way out of line in this suggestion. Civilization is being thrown into the Children's Ministry so that what is a member of the workers, organization, and other activities are still in three areas. A professional who proposed these matters is not being followed, i.e. Organization, ruling committee, etc., would be assigned to the Department of Transport and Division, along with construction. They weren't listening, so it's a practical job, not professional, and there's no direction in this, no politics in this. It's kind of like the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u36	A respectable president. Unlike what. The senator who was before me, I'm glad to hear this council resolution, that we're dividing up the Ministry of Health because it will strengthen the administration of both of these classes. As mentioned above, about half of all government funds are being paid for these two departments. I'd also like to say that there will be continued cooperation between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Social Affairs because this cooperation is not based on their being in the same department. It is also based on the people sitting there. I'd also like to say that there's been a very good partnership between me and the highest. Secretary of health. This cooperation will continue despite our strengthening these two classes by dividing up the Ministry. I also rejoice that we will strengthen the facilities. We are putting increased power in the children's affairs and the change there will also play into the work going on by a transnational committee on that subject. So I'm celebrating this council-sounding proposal. I'm glad she's at the final stop. Thank you for the management and monitoring committee for the implementation of this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u37	Madam President. What we are on the board of administration and monitoring committees and the Generals are responsible for in this matter is what the Ministry is supposed to be, and what it should be, on the other hand. Any other talk, about bringing specific lawsuits, is not relevant to this case because there is something the prime minister can suggest with the President of Iceland, that certain matters fall under a certain department, and then that certain ministers are responsible for certain issues. That's not what we're talking about here, but it's been mentioned here in the debate. How many can the Ministry be? I like it very much that this is divided by efficiency between the health minister and the Department of Social Affairs in order to be the Director of Special Affairs on his case, because these are huge lawsuits, the branch of the state goes to welfare. Only after observing this matter on the committee do I find this exchange very helpful. Then there's the other, how it's been arranged to bring the lawsuits to each other. I also think it's wise, though it's not what we vote for here, to move, e.g. The facilities for a social minister should be the social focus rather than the Congregation Book because it is in need today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u38	Madam President. I'd like to also be glad that this proposal is here for payment and thank you. A panel of members for completing their discussion on the subject. I am happy to be the chairman of the Committee because I have not only followed the discussions and reviews of the case but also know that this is where guests, such as the Compulsion Office and the Children's Health Office, described a great deal of positiveness toward it, on the other hand, that children's legal rights are not to be added to the Ministry of Social Affairs and that they should have their place in the Presidency and thereby be part of the whole administration. I know of the criticisms that have been reported on the mobilization of the workers, but I would like to say that I trust the Department of Social Affairs, which handles so much of the housing, very well to hold it, and that it has a lot of professional opportunities. Most important, I think it is very important that the agencies that will take care of these important classes, which are also a large part of all the budgets, receive professional support and support that I believe is at the same time practical for long - term and important for these classes. I'm glad that this proposal has come for release and, of course, will support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u39	V.E.G. President. During discussions, I concluded that the change in my motion in these topics was based on a misunderstanding. I view the law as a requirement for the council to take a material position on the case presented here, not just formally, as I thought the word of proposalists or of those who signed the committee opinion. According to law, the proposal of a prime minister in this respect needs to be made to the council and to be discussed in a material way. Therefore, I don't think it's a reason to agree with this proposal but to eliminate it because I feel that there's a misunderstanding about the role of the council in this regard. It was a well - aware decision made by the 2011 Council of Parliament that the Council had something on the matter, in effect, to say how the order of counsel was.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u40	President. I'm going to describe myself in a physical way as to agree with this adjustment proposal. She captures the same spirit that I have in these matters. Have others what to do. Councilmen and the highest. Ministers in charge of similar views here. It is my opinion that the equipment should be done to machines themselves on how it wants to take care of its own business. But in view of the fact that for someone there are instruments on whether this adjustment proposal will meet the legal obligations laid down in the General Assembly, I have no choice but to vote against the proposal. As I declared in yesterday's discussions, this is a matter that I have already begun to study and work on the changes in these laws, thus proclaiming continued work on those topics.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u41	V.E.G. President. We're starting 3rd. ... abouta billof fiscality, and I'll give you a commission from a greater part of it. The budget board. As we know, after 2 Cor. and have discussed the matter and some details that needed to be discussed and addressed. Before I come to the point of the committee article, I would like to mention that of 2nd. were presented with some suggestions for practical management, including 144 million were transferred to the reduction in Research Fund, Case 7,10, about 5% of that fund, 1.7% of the category, and 1.2% of the case of the 7th Amendment, research and knowledge. In agreement with the highest degree. Secretary of education and culture and the highest. Prime Minister will highest. The Minister of Education and Culture solves this in part within its own framework and uses it as a legal law on public finances. As a result, a greater proportion of budgetary funds will also be made to ensure that the funds are not affected. As I said, the committee took the matter to heart, and now I'm going to consider what is presented in the committee's list of parts. The committee has discussed the matter and called out a representative, including... from the European Parliament, the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs, Iceland's Summit ohf. The majority contributes to several reimbursement proposals but also contributes to a number of budget transfers, which are specifically outlined in the opinion. I will briefly review what these are, but each change will be made with precise figures and effects in the specific overviews that follow in the opinion of the above. The Act on Public Economics stipulates that accounts for the A-part of the State Fund should be made on the basis of international accounting standards. This involves a number of changes in current production methods, both in whole state funds and in individual Member States. One change is to buy the permanent financial resources, such as cars and major computer equipment, to exploit and write off the life span of the property, rather than reimburse it fully on a prenup, as has been customary so far. This change requires the transfer of funds due to the permanent budget of the sector's budget to investment contributions. Detailed dislocation of this type is found in Article 1 of this opinion and the transfers required within each topic field and the painting class of the A State Fund. A total of 4,624.6 million is suggested as a result. K. and, in turn, investment contributions increase over the same amount of money. These are the changes made in dissociation 2 of the bill. This change was not taken into account in the bill, but it is suggested at 3rd. and is the proposed changes to be found in a special Senate document, No. 584. This means paying back the licenses of all causes of suffering and lawsuits to be reduced to an estimated investment, and instead, they provide corresponding investment contributions. So this is the transfer of money changers, but it has no effect on the overall survival of the State Fund on national interest bases under Article 1. The bill. Similar transfers have to be made due to the current year, and the greater part expects them to be expected in a budgetary bill. Secondly, changes are proposed to the bill in line with the proposed changes to the Council of Iceland's Management Board and to the transport of projects between recruitment practices. As suggested by the Council of Congress, which was presented at the Council of September 26th, issue 155, until 2 p.m. yesterday, December 4, we have proposed changes in the names and number of recruitments that include the intervention of the Ministry of Health for Health and Social Affairs. Index 2 shows how members of the Union who once fell under the Ministry of Health switches between Department of Social Affairs and Health. In addition, changes are proposed as a result of the proposed transfer of equality from the Ministry of Health to the Ministry of Presidency and the transport of economists from the Environment and Resource Ministry to the Ministry of Social Affairs. A total of 401 million is the transfer of equality. K. and the extent of transport of the biomaterials at 616.4 billion. K. which moves between recruitments but falls under the same topic range and a case category, i.e. 17.50 environmental management. These are changes made in disunition 2 of the bill, but they do not affect the overall survival of the state funds. Third, it is the introduction of market rent for property owned by the State. There are proposals for transfers due to changes in accounts and the administrations of real estate owned by the state. Real estates are now owned and canceled during their shelf life, instead of evading full cost of pay or construction year. Over the past few years, many real estates have been being brought to the Kingdom Hall, now with more than half of the estates of the state and most land estates under their supervision. The Agency collects rents from citizens who are expected to care for the general maintenance and payment of real estate, insurance, and public pay. The rent is much lower than the amount paid for comparable market housing where financial expenses for housing are not taken into account. This arrangement means that the cost of rent-infested institutions is not comparable to the cost of renters on the market. This may lead to less management of housing issues in the individual organisations. To date, there has been a very small incentive for executives to move activity to a more cheap market area or to reduce the size of a home. Implementation of rent payments, regardless of whether the operation is being run into government housing or private housing, is part of an effort to correct this situation. More than any member of the state that is now renting its home in the state, there is an average increase in rent, an average of about 900 k. per square metres per month for approximately 1700 k. There are proposals to change the budget of a number of legal classes to improve the rent-insurrection of citizens. The changed arrangements take up real estate under Kingdom territory, i.e. More than half the estate of state funds. It is estimated that similar changes will occur with other State property in the second stage of the project. In the second phase, more time is needed, as it is a collection of more specialized and generally under the supervision of large members of the country, such as the Land Hospital, the University of Iceland, the University of Akureyri, and the government's real estate. The proposal covers the first stage of the project and includes an increase in the legal rights of a total of 4,402,1 billion. K. At the same time, government property income increases, so the proposal has no effect on the survival of the State Fund in Article 1. The bill. It is planned that the increased income of the market interest will go to the state fund as a financial cost based on a special bond published in connection with these changes. Index 3 lists a fragmentation of the increase in funds due to the increase in rents for the entire Member State to which the change takes place. A total rate of total pay rate of 4,402.1 million. K. but the overall impact on the growth of the state funds is no result of the increase in the state's income paid in the state's funds. Interchanges and corrections of practical division between causes of heartburn and lawsuits can be found in Article 4, where correction of the so - called fiscal divider of causes of heartburn and litigation is provided. These include correction of suggestions for 2nd. and altered criteria and correction of special health institutions because of the new payment system. A total of 826.9 million are raised. At least 306.2 billion declines in management. Dec., funding transfers decline by 30.7 million. K. and investment contributions decrease by 284.6 billion. K. Finally, a total of 205.4 million. K. So the net is not affected by the survival of a government fund. A respectable president. I'm now going to take part in Iceland's affairs and proposals for an additional five. Articles of borrowing, loans, and state responsibilities, and Article 6. The bill, on various sources. Toward the end of the 2nd Environment Commission work. a proposal was made to authorize the secretary of finance and economics to take up Iceland's market for ohf. to loan and share. Since there was no time to analyze the facts of the company's status, the committee decided to investigate the matter further and thorough and not make a suggestion until the 3rd. c., both of them could consult and look up the evidence available and provide further data, as it was. Iceland's market situation has changed rapidly in recent years, and the trend that we have seen continues and the postmarkets are changing rapidly. Conventional mail companies in the North are still on national property. The budget is all dealing with a comparable trend in the postmarket, characterised by a large decrease in the number of general letters and an increase in the cost of alcovement, which is of overreaching. The greater part highlights that the postal service is one of the fundamental factors of society and that the services are efficient throughout the country. Iceland is peripheral, and distances are heavy, and transportation is often difficult. During the review of the case, it was clear that a standard way of dealing with a alministry sliding has been established, i.e. increase in the price of letters and management of distribution systems, especially in the country, is no longer enough to cover all the services as defined by the public service. The majority also point out that the international service duties are technically in the state, not in the European Union. However, the Society has been assigned to perform it, including On the basis of the patent income, i.e. of letters below 50 g. Although the post-and telecommunications agency has approved reimbursement increases, they have not been sufficient to offset the limit of the amount of letters in private and international mails within the public service that have had a negative impact on Iceland's survival and financial status. Although letters have been drawn across all countries, there have been different ways to ensure the distribution of mail. In particular, the timing of action has varied from country to country. In Denmark, the government did not respond until the financial situation had turned out to be very bad. This led to a further need for reorganization and high financial resources from the state. On the other hand, the government in Norway and Finland seems to have taken action sooner. This may include lessons for the government, the responsibility to respond sooner or later. Then there are the actions and suggestions of the greater part after the hearing of the budget and after meeting with the post office, the Department of Transport and the Ministry of Transport, with the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, which has a share of government property, as well as with the heads of Iceland's e-mail. The Commission has also investigated that borrowing market growth does not conflict with government provisions that the EFTA monitoring department has taken care of. The committee called for answers to their questions about interest and reimbursement, economic measures, and society's vision. The committee sent the European Commission the following: What support is there for the sum of the loans, and what is the goal of using the loan? When and how will the Society repay the loan? An overview of the practical measures adopted by the board in the past few months in order to improve management and achieve financial restructuring of the society. What is a vision of the future in the outworking of the marketing service after the exclusive rights have been canceled as currently planned? According to the government's comments, the management board is planning to take various measures to ensure the future management ground of the society. A group already assigned to provide suggestions for reorganization of the Society's activities. This includes some. to place benefits for the owner on the activities, management plans and the forward mail order in relation to the role of Iceland's e-mail. It's important that the council be held both ways. Environmental and transport committees as well as what to do. The budget will be informed of the progress, the actions and benefits laid before them. Furthermore, the union is totally unmannerly and unable to live up to its commitments. A cut-off of services and costs may be considered. The European Commission intends to reimburse a government fund with a contribution from an economist of services applied for an unfunded full-time alcolance in 2013◯2017. A military and telecommunications agency has asked them to consider, but the fund does not depend on the company's requirement. There is no doubt about it. In recent years, it has been observed that there have been a number of cases that have been attributed to the operation of various changes and measures. Further measures are being taken to analyze and strengthen the situation. Investments, investment plans and factors that include substantial variable costs will be reviewed based on commitments, development of tasks and the position of the enterprise with respect to savings and management. The Management Board will submit an overview of all investments from 2008. It also shows that according to available data, certain parts of the public service will not be run profitlessly. The board feels that the management board of Iceland needs to be corrected and provided with a service contract. The financial and economic responses include: to ensure that in the early part of the next year, there is a clearer view of the future, the postal services and the role of Iceland's mail at that market. The majority of them refer to the administration and owner to the company's specific policy, thereby reevaluating its potential postal position with the intention of even reducing the participation of society's competitiveness outside the society's nuclear functions. It must not be promoted that the State is stuck with an unnecessary and possibly growing burden due to the subsidies of mail services. The main opinions are, in the opinion of the greater part, that data on the future role of the company should already have been provided, detailed information on individual activities and an overview of economic measures and future vision. The majority feels that it is absolutely necessary to revise mail laws and for the General at what time. The Environment and Transport Committee is now being discussed with a bill for a new overall supply of mail services. Whether the standards of the bill for the mail service can be considered as early as possible or as early as possible for the loss of the event, i.e. reduce costs and make more money. More than anything else, it is viewed as a natural currency for foreign shipments, which, as unchanged, are causing substantial costs, where income does not pay real cost. Furthermore, the more part measures the need to define the extent of the services within the European Regulation as soon as possible. Soon we will need to take a stand and implement the means for financing that will be discussed in the new mail bill, which will be approved by law, on January 1, 2020. The current national initiative is to secure the company's management in 2019 or until the implementation of new mail laws. The majority further set out the requirements, testing the loan, that legislators must inform both the financial and the pan-European transport committee on the progress of financial restructuring and the implementation of future failures prior to new loans and contributions provided here. A suggestion is made for the 2nd paragraph 5. Adds new ones to repay up to 1,500 million. K. To Iceland. A suggestion is also made for 6. will further improve the European Union's activities as a result of the existing financial problem of the society. Now I'm going to go back to other aspects and adjustments of the section, but first I'd like to say that the bill was given for 2nd. The request from the National Remuneration Fund, which is essentially a conflict between us after we are at the start of the day, is presented. A legal committee began to dig for what was lacking. The analysis is based on the deposit of an insurance fee and an agreement made. The Commission has called for a hearing on the need for financial advice from the Annual Remaking Fund. There is an analysis of the legal interpretation of a service agreement with aCTIVE SUBSTANCE as well as a different legal interpretation on which deposit of insurance would be considered when calculating the contributions. The majority of the money does not make a change in this case, but it emphasizes that the parties will agree on this as soon as possible. There are other forms of change that appear in the opinion of the greater part. Suggested by about 4 billion. K. a contribution to the U.S. legislator to ensure the implementation of a so-called Opcat project, which is a Protocol to the United Nations Convention on torture. The agent of the General Assembly will take on the assignment here, and the proposal will ensure that its implementation will not be affected by the other activities of the office. Then a proposal is made about 30 million. K. temporary contributions to the Agency. The proposal is followed by a discussion on the status of mnemonics, but a substantial reduction in markets over the past few years, along with the strong gangs of the Icelandic Crown, has resulted in complete transition to the worse. It is suggested that local and agricultural ministers take the lead in further analysis of the future of hairy animals and provide suggestions on the case within their current budgets as well as this temporary contribution to a year. At the same time, the budget and employment committees will be presented with recruitment procedures for the development of fur farms prior to the payment of the donation. There's a suggestion about 50 million. K. temporary contributions to the Akureyri Hospital, thus extending comparable contributions made to the greater 2nd district proposal. a year ago. The majority of the items are expected to be the highest. A health minister uses budgets due to budget 2020 to decide whether or not to proceed in an untimely manner. Then a proposal is made about 30 million. K. temporary contributions to the Matrix, a mental health organization. The programme is designed to promote broad and powerful mental health benefits by enabling the organization to maintain open - air resources for the mental - health professionals and those in the area who seek and promote recovery in mental - health matters and to contribute to more active participation in the workforce. More than that, the Minister of Social Affairs expects to evaluate the operation and take a position to make a business agreement with the organization or to fall from the future funds. There's a suggestion about 18 million. K. increase to Public Health Fund to promote the fund even more than is done in the bill. Suggested by about 45 million. K. temporary contributions to cover costs due to induction of equal pay/employment. Most of it's 36 million. K. to develop functional and registries software. The financial resources were used to facilitate the development of public and general labour market software as well as to pay 4 billion. K. Each year prior to the use of Iceland's Standard Council software which ensures systemic access to the standard. In addition, funding will be used to pay for counseling to re-do the tool box of equally paid witnesses on the Board's website. Second, it is an additional step due to a project in the implementation plan, 7 million. At a rate of payment for a remuneration study in cooperation with Iceland's Habitat, funding review of equal pay standards, general presentation of equally pay, to finance annual pay day etc. Then you will need to pay for advice on a project seven that will review equality. Third, there is a training course for the carer, which is a contribution of 2 billion. K. Then a proposal is made about 20 million. K. temporary contributions to strengthen the management of the Light, rehabilitation and supportive centres for the oncology centres, in addition to 30 million. K. a temporary donation agreed on during the 2nd discussion. The project is designed to ensure that the centre can continue to perform the cross-cutting role that it, as part of the medical system, has carried out on an ever - increasing scale. The majority of them expect health - care ministers to evaluate the operation and take their position on whether a permanent business contract should be made with the organization or falling from the future funds. Then I have made a thorough explanation of everything that is expressed in the opinion of the greater part of my life. The budget board. I want at the end of my speech, a respectable president, to thank the entire committee, why. A legal committee, for special work on the subject and at the same time, because we have reached the end of this work, and we are in trouble. The budget needs strong support from the committee's powerful writers, and I want to thank them especially for their assistance and support of the committee through this work as usual. The more part suggests that the bill will be agreed on by the changes outlined in this committee, as well as the proposal that the greater part is going to suggest to meet the losses in the Research Fund, as I discussed at the beginning of my talk. Under the majority opinion, the following notes are written. Councilmen and members of the General Assembly of December 3, 2000.: Willum Þór Þórsson Þrsson, Haraldur son of Benediktsson, Gunnarsdóttir Olsenthótttir, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, and Páll Magnússon.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u42	A respectable president. Again, we find that the committee's opinion of the committee is not final, and 70 million were added to this test grant. It's good for itself. But it started in minus 35 million on the budget bill last year. An additional 146.6 million were taken at 2. Today, 70 million return, with some 111.6 million in less than anything in this category. Hv. The head of the Committee says the Ministry is going to make up for the difference. But, of course, there is money involved. How can a minister only take 111 million out of the air without any interference? I would like to ask, " Where do they come from? ' What other work do they have to do with money? - Too short of time, let's save the next question until next time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u43	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The question is given to Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. It is reasonable to ask. If I got everything I had. A senator then said that he was asking about the failings that were shown to the 2nd. number 7,10. 144 million. A law on government finance allows a minister to move between lawsuits as well as causes of suffering, but he needs to ask the legal committee for its authority. It's time to put on the top. The minister of Def, 5%, on this fund that he has decided to revise, may therefore have less painful measures and spread it to more teams. It'll be the highest. Minister to complete his side. We're doing this together with him, and then the more part is determined to go to the highest level. A minister with a donation to prevent this loss. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u44	A respectable president. It is good to be assured that this will not be restricted. I'd like to talk to you about what most of the thing did to the 2nd. since this group of paintings was impaired to take general measures to reduce the growth of expenses. I'd like to take some advice. Chairman of these exact terms from a financial committee. When the conclusion is that the amount of money withdrawn goes down to one of the mercenaries, the research fund, is it really a general operation to reduce expenses? Especially when this seminary and research fund was reduced to 35 million, is it part of the budget as such and hence no tax growth there to be restricted? Is the message from a financial committee on general measures to reduce interest rate not incorrectly interpreted by a minister if they are to apply exactly what they should do?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u45	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's question. This is in accordance with the highest government contract. Governments to raise funds for research, development, and innovation. So this was a bit of a class violation of the general economy that went to the Ministry in view of changes between economic forecasts. In this case, the money went to a research fund, and it was a class violation of this policy. Of course, it was not a large sum of the total wealth. But after a conversation with the highest. A minister said that he wanted to revise this arrangement and distribute the economy between the seminars and between the parties, for it is the highest. Ministers are responsible by the civil law on public finances in their topic areas and in their litigations. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u46	Madam President. I'm afraid this decision between discussions, cutting down to science, is not just a classy one but just a fraction of a fraction, and it's just been changed. This is not the policy written in a financial program for the next five years and was approved here in spring. It is completely incomprehensible that the other part has decided to resolve these issues, and I want to pray. A senator about going through this better with me. We're here to help. We need to know what the European Commission intends to make use of their money. The chairman of the budget board cannot stand here in this chair and tell us senators: We're going to do this somehow, and it's the project that's going to figure this out. We need to know what to do with the government's policy on these matters and how it is necessary to decide to compromise the policy between discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u47	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A new Oddný Harðardóttir of this inquiry. That's the same question I got earlier in answer to what. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, and in fact, I have nothing to add. This is a work here between discussions in cooperation with the highest level. Ministers, such as I studied in my speech. V.E.G. The Minister of Education and Culture wants to revise this arrangement, and we think we'll meet it with a change and then we'll find out how it works. The Minister intends to conduct this here for his vote on Friday.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u48	Madam President. That answer is not good enough. It's us here in this room that's under the budget. We're here to consent to the amount of money the Minister gets to play. Then, in these changed times we are living now, we must use our intelligence, our technology, our innovation, our research, and our view of education in a way that we have not done. V.E.G. Many times since then, the Minister of Education and Culture has been talking about high education and speaking in these terms, that we need to look at education in another way. It has the highest. The prime minister also spoke about here and set up a special future committee to see how we can use the wisdom, science, and technology to meet challenges that the new technological revolution presents to us. I just want to ask you what. A senator whether he agrees with me that words and actions do not go together. We can't do this if we're going to cut to the lawsuit.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u49	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's question. I agree with what. A senator with that, and this is made clear in the government covenant. Governments, to promote innovation, research and evolution. That's why it's the highest. The Minister of Education and Culture is reevaluating this provision for economic management. He's still going to have to implement his economy. There is no doubt about that. I agree with what. A senator with that, and that's why we're doing it. That's why it's the highest. Minister to review this arrangement because it is in accordance with the highest government covenant. Government to promote research, innovation and evolution.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u50	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator and president of the Board of Justice for his review. I'm really worried about $1,500 billion. K. An emergency loan which most of the legal committee proposes to Iceland's e-mail. In the news, the director of Iceland's e-mail said that with the emergency loan, the company has been put on wind for the moment, while the next year there is a flash of air. Hv. A senator and the chairman of the legal committee said that this is a time for action, and that is precisely because there are 1,500 million. K. you are a substantial sum of money, and you wonder if there is no need for change in Iceland's Summit, rescue teams getting on deck instead of always putting more on this tilted ship. That's a lot of money, huh? A senator, and I can't figure out what to do if there's a flash in a month.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u51	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir on the Icelandic e-mail. First, I'd like to say that the situation is serious in Iceland. We all know that. Iceland is owned by our citizens, all the people of the country, and therefore we must carefully examine the situation. That was even. that's why. The legal committee called the matter between the 2nd and 3rd. Now 500 million have been loaned to finish this year, and that's it. Then there is a billion dollars in the following year, and before this source is obtained, it is quite sure here. Environmental and transport committees and what. The legal committee will be informed of the progress of the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u52	Madam President. The situation is very serious. In the past decade or so, it has been discussed that Iceland may be making the most of the money offered by the Icelandic government for a global service into a competitive business. This morning, the workaholic's plan appeared, saying that there is good reason to examine this and to examine this carefully because there is a clear violation of competitive law. It's not just a clear violation of competitive law, it's that we're in trouble in Europe, in case this gets out. That's exactly what I'm worried about, I'm worried about ESAs, and that's gonna cost us a lot of money too. It is stated in the report that the Committee has received confirmation that the State's loan of market growth to Iceland does not conflict with the State Help Guided by ESAs. Then I ask the person who was asked about the ESA account that borrowing is unlikely to be reimbursed, and is therefore strong? Also, the funding may be new to the competitiveness of this part of the world, as we have heard?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u53	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the question, and these are all questions. The budget was going through the past week. First, I'd like to say about all the decisions on private rights, services and competitions, that's a surveillance agency called the Post and Communication System that helps. It monitors the activities and decisions in charge of mail distribution. Now it was a long, well considered case, and it was part of the past, and it ended up with an agreement with the Contestance Board. The information we have and are about to borrow is that it is on markets and therefore does not depend on this support. Now we do not know whether or when the loan will be made or when the result will be if and when the loan is done and when we will have to examine it, both at the time of the visit. The Environment and Transport Committee, which has a concern for the postal market, has to be done and so on. A legal committee that has financial issues to do. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u54	Madam President. Thank you. A senator and the chairman of the budget board. This is shown in the report of the greater portion by the 3rd Environment. to meet with the Committee between 2 and 3rd. came representatives of the Bank of Scarers, who had forgotten to report to the committee at the earlier stage of the case. There were many very useful information for the Committee on the status of this group, on the plans for the change in the micro-organization system, how this decrease in contribution by 1,100 million. K. In the next year, especially with regard to the commercial development of this group, it would have been possible. We watch these days as inflation of both this year and the next year aims to become considerably greater than expected. As a result, the next year's GDP will be substantially higher than expected, even at 2nd. The point. That's why I'd like to ask him why. Senator: How on the basis of the fact that more of the legal committee did nothing to change the state of the group, did not have any adjustments between discussions? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What was the point of presenting the representatives of the Quantum Community to a meeting of the Committee if they weren't there to do anything?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u55	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to say regarding the review of the Quartal Community that I apologized to the guardians of the Quantum Community for not formally sending a request that led to late review of the Qualified Community, which was unfortunate. We invited them to come to which they accepted, which is good because I join with the wind. A senator, and thank him for the inquiry so I can get it to, that it contained very helpful information and a very detailed review. Now it is with all such reviews that are very helpful to the whole discussion committee and useful, that, of course, this conversation needs to be ongoing even if we do not respond to all the demands presented. I just agree with what. A senator who sadly has failed to improve the interest of this group, although we have increased the amount of contributions made to the jury for enormous amounts of money and, of course, our joint task is to make it up. It's really just awful to face it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u56	Madam President. Yeah, I'll take it from here. Senator. This sucks to see, and I was very sorry to see that the matters in this situation were not spent a single word in the committee opinion except that their representatives had attended the committee meeting. But there's something else that I wondered about, too, when we're going into the final discussion of money. This year's inflation is expected to be considerably higher than expected, even in an updated national budget just last November. Next year's prices are far worse than expected. With that in mind, you would have expected a measure of caution on the part of the legal committee. At the same time, we are actually setting a very dangerous example, as a financial committee increased the cost of 700 million dollars. K. Between 1 and 2nd. and this adds 200 billion. K. In addition, which is really beyond the limits of the financial policy of the government. We stand here with a billion more on expenses, beyond the government's limits. [[The president calls.]] Fear the chairman of the budget board, because this is done on the board of the budget itself, not that we are setting a dangerous example by not setting a political financial policy? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u57	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson is a very good question. For the first time, we experience between economic forecasts that there is only a decrease in economic growth and inflation. To date, we have not had to face such a situation, nor have we experienced the genuine stability of our government law when it comes to amplification. We have 1% of our goals for rest, and it just needed a lot of effort, and the committee could not be moved by suggestions that came through the 2nd. We're ending this in 0.97, so technically, it's 1% left over. That's all there is to it. This is something that I think we must look into in the future, how governments can react at any given time, and when it comes to something that we would call economic control.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u58	Madam President. Despite much criticism, the budget takes a very small change in conversation. There is still a greater part of his plan to reduce the planned amount of money from what was foretold when the budget was submitted just over two months. A nursing home still needs to live under unsuspecting conditions, as does health care facilities in the country. There is no promise of high education, and there is still time to reduce the total amount of money to college from year to year. There is still evidence to increase child improvement in intermediate groups and a lower amount for growth reforms next year than it did in the current year. Elderly ones still have to wait for their better efforts, and hospital services need more money to meet the policy established by the government. One of the most important issues of public funds known as housing support is almost over the years, and public law and transportation are still in considerable need. The first smaller section of the budget committee wants to highlight two new conclusions that have been received since 2nd. End of the budget bill. On November 30, last, the German government of Iceland issued the following challenge to the government, with the permission of a president: Iceland's public relations challenge the government to speed up all work, according to the demands of the labor movement in future dress-offs. If the lack of action and understanding that has been characterized by government response, it is clear that it will be difficult for the labour market to complete a new labour agreement. Only a little more than a month before a collective contract expires. Governments have made no quick efforts to solve the tremendous problem of housing. They need advice on tax issues, though, which are the key to the demands on the increased equation. For years it has been clear that national initiatives have to be made in housing. Many people are stuck under rents, insecurity, and cannot buy, and many live in unacceptable circumstances. This situation is even But because of the inactivity of governments and rural governments, the labor movement has long pointed to the problem. Fixing the housing market has become an independent solution, and the compensations that have been negotiated for the past few years have been provided for the fire of housing costs. It requires radical changes in the system so that the interests of employees and households are put ahead of the interests of capital owners. The change in the tax system is an important step on the road to winding down the huge tax reimbursement that has taken place in the past few years, with minimum wage groups paying the bill for the nation's richest section. Here's where your priorities need to be changed. It is time to guide the interests of low-and middle-time workers by changing the tax system and increasing the child- and growth-replacement system. This is, Mrs. President, a resolution or a review from the Federal Center of the European Union of Iceland, which the budget has now passed between discussions. The situation is very clear, and we in the United States can agree with each word, and we have offered suggestions that would meet many of the points of the European Union mentioned there. The first part of my memory wants to call attention to another reference. On November 19, Iceland's Qualification Association issued the following resolution, with the permission of a president: The Council of Justice and the greater part of the budget suggests to the General that social security laws will be violated by the legal process. On budgetary bill 2019, the Ministry of finance presents a new interpretation of the 69rd st. Social Security Act. The bill says that social security benefits are improved: In addition to an increase of 0.5% in money, Iceland's Habitat projections on the development of the index price are taking into account the reduction in funds. It is the same requirement as for raises in the bill. It is wrong to agree that there are the same criteria for raises in the bill. The bill builds like a fiscal bill so far on Iceland's National Institute of Economicitation, which, according to one estimate, is a 6% raise in salary, and can be seen on the basis of the budget in the bill, which makes it clear that a 6% increase in pay is expected: ◯ Then the name wage is expected to increase by 6% in the next year.•The estimate is also expected to be that the power of the provision will be made on human wax by 2.7%. In spite of this, a financial minister at the General Assembly suggests that it agrees with a 0.5% subsidence gain for a pensioner, provided that inflation does not exceed 2.9%. Article 69 pars. Law on social security was registered with Article 10. track No. 130/1997. The report on the bill explains: "At the same time, it is reasonable that the sum of funds will be determined on the individual budgets, based on the same criteria as the budget for the general development of pay and prices in the budget year. In his discourse by Davíð Oddsson, then prime minister, on December 9, 1997, he said on the induction of the law: ▪ The river is twice as wide as ever. [...] The consumption index should not be sufficient. It should also be taken into account, in particular, to have criteria for the development of the salary and, of course, can be done only when there is a better chance for the development of the salary than the index price. In the 2019 budget, remuneration is a better option than the price index, but it is still the intention of the government and the greater part of the budget to aim only at the price of the EU budget for making a decision on the increase in social security. In view of the greater part, improvement in social security and unemployment improvements are expected to increase by 3.6% instead of 3.4%, which is in line with anti-inflation predictions in the next year. The predictory predictions have increased to 3.6% and the increase in social security only to be consistent with inflation predictions, which increased from 2.9% to 3.6% from June to November. Why is an estimated 6% increase in salary value passed? What happened to an increase of 0.5%, and what happens if inflation increases? Quote concludes in the review of the National Organization for the United States. And that question is here, and it is not answered. The 2nd. of the budget bill, 1st substantiated a change of about 24 billion dollars. which could be totally financed by changes in income resources. These suggestions and ideas would have assumed a higher share in the government budget next year than the government groups expect in this financial bill. Sadly, all social reforms and, in effect, all other political groups were revered to 2nd. Now the 3rd. contributes a smaller portion back to some adjustments that all look to the future. The cost of these changes is some 4 billion dollars. which is the same amount as it is available to reduce the cost of fishing between years. Thus, all of them could be financed by having unchanged fishing supplies next year. I'd like to remind you that the fishing bill has not been approved permanently, it's going to come back into the Senate Hall at the 3rd. and we can decide to dismiss it, take us a year, or then make more peace with the hunting business, and in 2019 take advantage of the more than 4 billion that would become a public fund just for the one decision we make here. First, we offer to contribute to disability (corresponds of 27 disability and the affairs of those who are disabled) by raising about 1 billion. 2. Public dwelling budget (status 31 Housekeeping support) increased by 1 billion dollars. 3. Children's improvements (status 29 Family Areas) increase by 500 million. K. 4. Colleges (status 21 college levels), contributions increase by 500 million. K. 5. Health services in the country, public hospital service (status 23 Hospital services), contributions increase by 500 million. K. 6th Nursery (status 25 nurses and rehabilitation services), contributions increase by 400 million. K. 7. Tax research manager (metallic area 5 Taxt, property and finance), contributions increase by 100 million. K. To follow a study of Panama documents, taxpayers and tax evasion because of money fraud. 8. Resources for the Research Fund of Science and Technologies increase by 147 million. K. In the turn-in, we expect 147 million. K. Come back in here, despite that duck as it is. In this discussion, a senator, chairman of the legal committee, reviewed earlier. I, Madam President, would like to read a student's statement here on account of surgery to the Research Fund. It is not enough for me that the chairman of the budget board is standing here in this chair saying: "We're going to revise the requirements, and that's the highest requirement. A minister of education who's going to revise the economy requirement and just cut down somewhere else. I want to know, where to cut down? We're going to cut down the colleges, colleges, cultures, museums, sports and hobbies? Where to cut this over 100 million. K.? We need to know, the funds here. Madam President. I'd like to read the students' letters, by permission of the President, for surgery to the Research Fund: ▪ Signed by a serious concern over the estimated $125 million cut to the 2019 Research Fund, the U.S.A. In large context, this may not sound like a lot of money, but for those who rely on the fund, there is a huge amount of money. If the figure is associated with a year's wage, it becomes clear that this amount of money could be financed nearly 30 years' wages for doctors or twenty - one year's wages for newborns. So this is a major blow to Icelandic society, which is heavily counting on this fund. In particular, we have signed a concern over the position of doctors and DAs, whose survival is basically based on the distribution of competitive funds. During the past few years, the success rates of the Research Fund have fallen substantially from 29.6 percent in 2015 to 18.4 percent per year, even though the funds have not been cut down. In the case of planned cuts, it is apparent that the success rate will substantially decrease in emissions of 2019. The budget of the 2019,2023 of the government says: In many places, the development of doctors is insured and the recent existence of academic workers is inadequate. This puts a risk for the new knowledge that often comes with young scientists to the university and reduces their contact with a foreign - language community. - It was a quote in a financial program. And forward with the letter, with President's permission: ▪ These words of government are signed. We have reason to believe that the estimated cut-off will have a major impact on the development of medicine in the country where withdrawal is likely to increase and reduction in recruitment. In the same way, the kidney - based problems of the kidney will be greatly diminished, causing the long - term loss of avatarism and the weakening of scientific research and university. So we challenge members of Congress to adjust education contributions so that sufficient donations can be made for research and science at university and educational institutions in Iceland. Under this work declaration: Iceland's Department of Physics and Rencologists at the University of Iceland, the National Institute of the University of Iceland, the National Institutes of Icelandic Students, the National Academy of Health Colleges of Iceland, the Féggis at the University of University of Reykjavík, Archimedes, the Dr. Physics at the University of Iceland, the National Science and Natural Sciences Association at the University of Iceland, the Doctorate of College of Colleges at the University of College of Colleges of Colleges, the Adens and the National Institutes at the University of Iceland. Madam President. The chairman of the Conspiracy, huh? paritaprevir Before today, Logi Einarsson discussed these matters in the council, and I want to live up to his words. The world is fast, and before we know it, we will be in a new environment where new jobs exist and other changes will occur. The key to getting up in such a fleeting world and building this new society is that we use our intelligence, our expertise in technology, our innovation, and our research. And I think most people realize that this is what we have to do, we're supposed to come in handy from the technological revolution we're facing. We have to look at the education system in ways we haven't. We must focus on education and education institutions and innovations within them. That is why I agree with the financial emphasis that was agreed on in spring, but it is not followed up in the government's main policy prior to 2019, which is this financial bill that we are now discussing in the 3rd issue. Madam President. So instead of looking at the changes or practices we have proposed in the United States and the representatives of the United States Group for a budgetary committee have already spoken and submitted, the budgetary bill, unfortunately, guarantees neither social nor economic stability. That's sad. The government will not attack the necessary investments in the interiors of society or in the necessary government revenues, and this will affect the well - being of all of us. Under the opinion of the committee, from the 1st smaller section of the budgetary committees, the publication is now under way. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u59	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir It's a nice, fancy new Oddný Harðardóttir's speech. She reviewed the proposals of United States and the 1st smaller section of the legal committee, which was prepared at the time. A senator and a member of the budget board, Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson, who worked hard at night. It's a legal committee, so to speak. First, I want to say about the wording as follows. A senator came here to see, on the axis of the man standing here, the chairman of a legal committee, that I can take all criticism, but that kind of wording is all over the bounds, I feel, only made myself angry. I'm going to try to behave myself here in this chair, but it's all on the edge. We agree completely on that, me and what. A senator, focusing on research, evolution, and education is in accordance with a government contract, is in line with a national financial programme, and therefore the last record for 3. A storm, a sledgehammer. A senator was very well - versed here, a violation of the Research Fund. But let's see that this is a class 7.10 rise by 9.1%. This determined fund has had high increases, 65% increases since 2013, so it is not just the highest. A government that emphasizes this but that has been done a great deal in these matters. This is because we agree that we need for the future and for future generations to take good care of education, research, and innovation. I agree with what. A senator about that. But, hey. A senator doesn't have to worry about the changes she went through here because this case has been stepped into and settled because... [[The president calls.]] I've got to get it back later because the bell's starting to hatch in the back of my head. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u60	Madam President. That didn't mean to do it. A senator to anger, and I've worked hard. A senator long and frankly, I haven't seen him angry. This term on a axis was not to be disparaging about the reason. A senator, he holds out the legal structure. A senator introduced. When we agreed on public financial laws, and when we were working on them, we were guided by this: Let's set up a road so that we can set up plans and policies that we're going to work for at least over one year. That is why we review the financial program every five years. When the funds aren't allowed to know how to meet this conservative requirement, an additional requirement that comes into question, I don't think it's unacceptable. If she is not to be met by cutting down the Research Fund, it cannot be in accordance with the guide we were working on when we won the government bill and then adopted in this council hall. This is what I want to call a duck. I'd like to know before we accept this bill how the mercenaries go down. And I want to see where to cut in return.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u61	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I just want to say first that I'm gonna get over it, and let's not hang ourselves in the wording. I agree with what. Senator. The work pressure is supposed to be okay. However, that is how it is in this legal order within a group, a minister can and should have room to move. But he has to report what. A financial committee, if he intends to shift the subject from one to another - when it is said that he is in his budget year. I just want to say I agree with you. A senator and we in the greater part who had to do this here in a short time have already considered that we need to know exactly how to get it. Ministers intend to respond to the issues and issues involved. You're absolutely right. A senator, I'm sorry, but I can't answer it any more here if I'd like to.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u62	Madam President. You're right to the highest. Ministers have time to switch if something unexpected arises. But there should not be a problem between discussions that something unexpected will - somehow make it work after the bill has been approved. That's not the work we agreed on. We senators, both in positions of government and on the board, need to provide the European Commission with support and follow what we say here. We say with the law on public finances: You can make room for moving, and there is a degree of flexibility in it because something may arise in the year. But when we agree with the bill before 2019, we need to know how things should go down, we can't have such a loose end. Friday, when we're gonna put this bill on, we'll have to be clear. The purpose of the law was for us to stop this amateur act that has been around for years. When I was on a budget, we were often dealing with exactly the same thing. A senator describes it. But the idea was to improve plan, increase discipline, and hold on to government matters, and not let an end end come when the budget is dropped each year.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u63	A respectable president. A legal committee was reimbursed after 2 Peter 3: 1. Environment, mainly because the decision was made to wait to give the government's proposal for loan to Iceland. The nomineemen had doubts about the right grounds for the state's building of Iceland, whether the amount submitted was actually due to a sliding conflict due to the services established by Iceland. There were no satisfying answers to the question of whether this was the case. In view of the greater part, questions and answers that the Committee sent to the Iceland Commission for support for the loan level, how to use the loan, how to repay it, to what economic measures would have been recently taken, and how the management would provide the support of an all-time mail service. The simple answer, as shown in the opinion of the greater part, is that the Society is not a working partner for the future and cannot live up to its commitments. So I feel that it is inevitable to consider that this is not a loan but simply a state's grant. Although it is said that it is a market loan, the Statety Fund has not yet been viewed as the market interest of this loan. It needs to be made clear, it is not just some interest that the company received at the beginning of this year and that the same basis is for them to grow. It doesn't work that way. I'd also like to say that this is a government scholarship, for although the loan would be considered unlikely, the reimbursement would be only due to the failure of the union to operate properly, whether it needs further support. There are no requirements for Iceland e-mails for borrowing beyond those procedures that might be considered normal for the partner to resort to. Various committees had certain conditions that would be needed for the loan that is not to be found at all. Now I want to be a little embarrassed again, as I did in 2nd. since I simply had too little time to complete a committee opinion. There was only more time for that now. The figure of the greater part was taken out of the committee without the complete text actually being included in the committee's opinion when it was taken out of the committee. It's similar again here. This suggests a change in proposal after the committee has been resolved and the smaller part is simply not informed. This is in terms of this amendment at 7:10, where the majority of the portion disintegrated from 146.6 million, which was supposed to be a general means of reducing emissions. The point is, the cost interest in this topic field is due to the EU framework in education and research and to a number related to national production. Because land production has grown to this extent, this amount has simply increased. All other amounts, however, have been dropped by one person in this field. It's the National Research Centre of Iceland. The budgets of 2018, 38.4 million went down to 32.3, the target science and technology were 207.5 million, dropped to 192.5, the Research Fund dropped by 35 million, from 2.2 billion and 505 million to 2 billion, and 470 million. The only thing that rose from 1.8 billion to 2.6 was the media reserve of 10 million. A research fund, to increase the value of seafood, falls by 2 million. Technology fund also drops by some 40 million. All that goes up is the Farm Fund from 127 million to 133.8 million. This is the budget growth of this topic field, this national production linking of the EU educational, research and technological development framework. A greater part of the requirement is to take general measures to reduce interest in this sector because of the economic forecast that came in and its distribution is to be taken from the research fund. Of course, it will be all wrong, for it is simply against the government covenant, that is so simple. It is not possible to boast that contributions to this area are being so greatly increased because they are committed to an increase relative to land production. There's nothing to do about it. That will happen no matter what your decision may be. In this regard, it is independent of government policy. A greater proportion of the budgets are now being proposed to raise the budget by 140 million after it has been dropped, increasing by 70 million. A message from the Committee's chairman is that a minister of education is planning to bridge the gap. At that time the 35 million that were originally withdrawn from the budget and then increased by this 14.6 million, which was then plus 70 in between, which is the 113.6 million that are missing. That sums up the education minister to draw somewhere from this subject. Not from other topics, not from the university, after school, but from this precise subject field. Depending on the evidence, etc. But then a minister needs to take from the National Research Centre of Iceland or a goal plan in science and technology - isn't it inside, or is he at the Department of Employment? I don't quite remember what it's like. The EU educational framework is not being set aside because it is bound according to national production. Of course, we ask this big question: Where should 111 million come from from from in the Research Fund from other financial groups in this field? There's nothing obvious at all, and I think the criticism would be just as much if it were taken from the National Research Center of Iceland, because it wouldn't do it, there's only 32.3 million, there's a lot to go up to 111 million. At first, the minority could not know that some 70 million were corrected. The memory was not known, we heard of the inquiry, that the distribution of these general measures to reduce the growth of expenses made possible in the Research Fund. We couldn't find out from a minister or anything like that. We received this information through the educational community to receive this from institutions, etc. So there's a lot of stuff in the budget and in this process everything we're trying to get into, which says in the public financial law. There's so much being done in the old-fashioned way, in the teat that was worked on before public financial law was adopted. The financial bill is still a sign, quite clearly. There is no transparency to the reason why limited expenses raise a certain amount. There is no transparency in why money, which is added to a new project, grows or decreases. There is absolutely no such transparency. I asked for better disunition on this budget, and that also made the budget committee, explaining why 100 billion to 200 billion or whatever it is in whatever language it is. Why does the Minister need this money? What is it about government policy? What is it that has been done to improve or strengthen the cost of this extra money? There were very few answers. There was one answer, as if I mentioned in my committee study, from the Ministry of Justice, which was to be commended, but it was too short in advance to consider it in a committee program for 2nd. I'll just remind them of it now. However, the dissociatives we received can be traced to the dissociation of a dollar on which we were going, on what assignment. It could be traced, fine, great. Then we were added to the dissidents from other problems that shared the subject field. There also came the dissociation of the same group that added money to the cost range. And then, all of a sudden, the budget vector wasn't on zero. They suddenly lost 25 million because of the subject field, such as. Children's managers come in and they have to scratch their heads to see how all of these things work together here. I just have to say that the feeling is that there's a very little conversation and a lot of activity on how the policy being put together fits into the budgets and why these budgets need to exist. The feeling is that it's the other way around. There's a policy. People have little idea of the cost of a policy, and they tried to scrap together the money that could be found and shared on tasks by chance, just by what's next, not by what's best. This analysis is not available because there are no costs and benefits for the projects established by the management board and the budget. I make a comment about this problem that I point out here that the more part comes with a change in motion after he has handed down his opinion from a committee as a confusion of my opinion. I assume that everything remains unchanged from the committee. I write a portion of my opinion on these 146.6 million that are withdrawn from the subject area of 7,10, on the scientific and competitive fund of research. Then, by the time of the day, it is not quite right because 70 million have been added. It would be foolish to let you at least know, so you might be able to take that into consideration. I don't know when the decision was made, I don't know when it was sent in, maybe it was just now just before a council meeting. Then my opinion would have been long ready, but it must be explained in a speech that is not the most convenient way to do this. One adjustment came in addition from the greater part that is very enjoyable. There's a 4 million-million-dollar suggestion to the Generals' agent for his use of so-called OPCAT projects. There is a fixed contract and a contract to monitor torture, etc. But it's the same thing as we did in the Piramis Rivers in 2nd. The budget and the proposal were dropped. So the greater part has already made the Pirata proposal of 4 million budgets to the Allied agent, but it now makes the same suggestion again for the 3rd. Admittedly, there was also an adjustment that was to be made to the State Accounting, and it affects the same budget. It comes with a total rejection, but it also points to a financial problem that we have with them on a vote here. When we in the Pirates make a change in budgetary proposals for the Generalist and State Reconnaissance, it does not come into two groups that are chosen by or on, but it is chosen together because they are under the same topic area. I wondered, " Won't this be a better look in the future? ' The budget was also given a number of interests in financing on the others and on these projects. What is most surprising is the repeated discourses of the previous years, which have repeatedly been met by a financial committee. This arrangement must simply be completed. Either the Ministry involved in this matter is to accept these assignments on a contract or to do something else regarding the ministry, or it simply states that this project should not be given power from the State. It is most disparaging that there is always a need to be subject to the mercy of the legal committee. There is also no evidence that the Ministry cannot accept these projects without additional funding. This means that when a financial committee agrees with this kind of budget, it is actually being given financial support to a minister for other projects or as an allowance to cope with financial weaknesses. This is really serious when you think about it. A minister has 100 million in all his dreams. In the 100 million, if so, is, for example. financing the wonderful task of the Spirit or the Light. But we're not going to know about it. Then you apply. Listen, we haven't heard anything about us getting the strength to keep up our work. A financial committee just runs around like a headless chicken and agrees: Go ahead. This is 30 million for you. And then another 100 million ministers, an increase of 30 million - this is an example, a hypothethic example. We do not know if a minister had the resources needed to care for the projects that were being carried out. We even had a promise in 2nd. that a minister would have solved this problem with a spirit force. Hence, there was no adjustment then, but it suddenly enters the 3rd. It's a problem. I'm sure people can see how omnipresent this is for the Council to deal with. I want to end this with words as easily as possible. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason fell into the council's work today, which will fit well into the discussion of budgets. There he noted that the wealth of government was never as debt - keeping as much as that. As I have already pointed out in this discourse, there are things we do not take into account. It is at the highest point in this immense debt. We see a gap in front of us on projects that need to be financed immediately. I can't say in the next few years because they're in so much trouble. This debt is not taken into account in the state's financial status. This makes it possible that the wealth of state is not in the best position he has ever been in. Perhaps in this financial debt, but overall, no. It has been reviewed, though, quite often over the past year, and before elections, the total debt was made in the interior. Industrial organizations published a report on this. There are only a few billion. We need to take into account these commitments, such maintenance needs and investment needs, building up that we have neglected in recent years while focusing on subsidies. We see it black and white how much growth we gain when we pay off these financial debts. It's very good to be able to see it. At the same time, we have a social debt, and we do not know the cost of interest. It's bad not knowing where the interest costs are. Maybe he's taller than on loans we've paid for. Perhaps more money would be involved in making a specific project instead of paying off the loan. Then we would eliminate the accumulated interest costs of the project, which will accumulate in the absence of it, and we will be able to get the benefits of the future much sooner. It also offset the interest cost of the loan that otherwise would have been paid back. We need to consider this in the near future, and it would be good to have better analyses of this in the future in order to make a much more informed decision as to whether we should pay off debt or make investments or build up. I look forward to the time when public finance laws are actually starting to work and are starting to develop policies and plans that are costly and profitable and when we can start talking more about why we are taking this course and not about others. The discussion has been extremely small on those notes. There has been a very little debate in both the financial and the budget policies on which the budget is to be based. We should look up the chapters and check travel policies and ask: Should we set the long-term policy on the development of sustainable tourism in cooperation with stakeholders? That's a very general word. I'm sure that sounds like it. This is some kind of operation. It doesn't sound very specific to this operation. You can't see the results of it. Then you have to go back to the financial program, where there are some criteria for the effectiveness of this procedure, i.e. shape long-term policy. To support national market rooms, certainly a very fine operation. I go back to the financial program and ask: " What results are we going to achieve by strengthening the market facilities in the country? Then we can ask ourselves, " Is it possible to have this operation or perhaps some other procedure that will lead me in the right direction or not? ' In the past, I have asked whether we are actually applying the laws on public finances. The answer is: Yes, but at the same time, we too are in the induction process. Official financial laws had a specific duration. They went into effect in 2015. It was only then, then they were of full value. There were warned against several things, e.g. Annual report for Ministers, but not much more. The law is in full effect, and we're supposed to follow it. The Ministry is to give us financial and financial laws under official financial laws. If they really want the induction process, they have to make it a step in the law so that it is clear to us here at the General, where the funds are meant to be, what can we expect. In the past two years, we have provided funds in way too short. It has been impossible to find out if and what has been agreed upon. Why did there need 100 million there and 200 million elsewhere? There was no time to answer that question. For the first time now, we are building on almost a whole process of government law. The board had a little less time than a rule in a standard term would have been used to promote financial policy. I had a financial plan for you, um... that time, and she returned a little too late, which she needed, was set aside by government law. The law does the same. Yet, at this point today, we do not know what the numbers mean without asking for special disunition. We don't know what that means when the major part tells the minus 146.6 million to paint 7.10. We learned of it through the side rooms, institutions, and those working on it, that it really meant cutting down from the research fund. Of course we should know this from the beginning. I think it's very serious. This was shown when we previously agreed on budgets, though, when a financial committee added some additional transport issues that did not achieve enough reporting, a minister could suddenly do whatever he wanted to do with the money. In the majority of the changes made, this should be a general means of reducing interest rate. The general procedure made by a minister would be to extract all the amount from the Research Fund. I have to make a note that it can't be a general operation to implement such a maintenance procedure in this way. There I feel that there is a failure between what the council expects in terms of financial matters and what happens in the plots. The next part of that process is fund-making monitoring. Now that we have accepted these budgets, we need to be able to ask a minister of the following: Give us back the money you gave us toward the goals set according to the policy or not? The problem is that a minister cannot answer that question. For two reasons. Mostly because the standards are relatively inaccurate and indiscriminate, but they are not costly. That is not to say: 100 million were able to do just that and was a perfect plan. In fact, we learned that we could improve and do this for 95 million, we were saving. Who knows if it was right or not because the expense was not in the way? You could make that up afterwards. There's something we can't get over here because it's precisely abdicating our financial resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u64	President. I'd like to focus on that as a matter of course. A senator began his discussion, which is the emergency loan to Iceland's mail, or as he went well, it is more proper to talk there about the loss of state funds or Kingdom strength in the light of the answers to the circumstances and prospects. Where it is. A member of a budget board who is also an emissary of the Environment and Transport Committee, I would like to have his opinion on whether and how we can stop this development, that this is some process that depends on the opinion of any conflicted politicians. I would like to quote a story in which a former senator named Lilja Mósesdóttir says, by permission of a president: ▪ At that time - it applies in 2010/2011 - ◯ was J. Sigfússon financial and economic minister, and Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir's daughter, the head of Iceland, and a member of the Transport Committee. I urged them to act before going into trouble. Steingrímur and Lilja did not seem to realize the seriousness of the situation, and nothing happened. Now Iceland is on the move, and the account is sent to taxpayers. What can we do? A senator telling me? [[The president calls.]] How can we prevent this trend? This is not a big deal now, when the government, a financial committee, is faced with a significant cut-off between the 1st and the 2nd. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Surely, it would have been remembered if this had not been in the back.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u65	President wants less of it. Councilmen are to respect the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u66	A respectable president. This is a huge question about a very difficult subject. There is certainly a particular development in the mail service we face and any company that would face trouble in that position. We got, for example. knowing that the existing administration structure of this enterprise will never provide that conclusion or lead to some kind of professional treatment of such an enterprise as it is. It was very strange to me because there is a conflict of government as well as the arrangement, how this usually works, not just at the European level, but in all other public companies.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u67	Thank you. A senator before and in effect apologized for being making such a big case, with only a minute to answer. However, the conclusion may be that we need to consider these issues in an effective way. It is quite clear that during those years the Ministry of finance has not been successful as an owner, a custodian of this project, as a public guardian. It is clear that the Department of Transport, formerly the Ministry of Internal Affairs, has also failed to create Iceland's best environment for management. Under these conditions are the two regular committees of the council. We're also talking about, like, cot. A senator will establish, the administration of this company, the executives that have not done, as far as you can tell, in taking seriously the clues that have been acquired and in earnest some of the permanence of the operation. You wonder: " Is this why we are here because we can always go to the taxpayers' pockets? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u68	A respectable president. I think you're right about what you're talking about. Senator, it's at least my feelings because of the lack of answers you received. We needed a specific explanation. You get the feeling, exactly because of the bill available to the Environment and Transport Committee on Personal rights and etc., that there are some standards in the setting of what the state's going to do to pay for the services at the end of the day. It is preparing for more elbow space as soon as possible, not according to the high cost of the public service as it is now, but simply to have more between the hands when the State then needs the new law to cover the expenses of the ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u69	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Like a senator who was once opposed to me, I am in the region of Iceland. I'm going to draw attention to the fact that in the opinion expressed by the greater part, the loan and the advancement of this funding are given very strict conditions. I don't agree with that. In his own words, a senator said that it was coming in a careless manner. Therefore, my question to the senator is: Does he not believe that there are clear conditions for the progress of the case listed in the three committees? The majority of the budget committees are also discussing the remaking of the company, discussing drawing it out of a competitive market, streamlined company. I'd like less, too. A senator says that mail is one of the basic elements of our community, and in the state it is a duty. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u70	A respectable president. No, I specifically stated that I do not believe that the conditions set up there are conditions beyond what is necessary, just to maintain a responsible control of the company. Without the means of the legal committee, this would be done anyway. That is what I mean, that there are really no conditions for the expansion of the State of 1.5 billion. The postal service is certainly an enormously important service that has been developing because more possibilities have been added to transmit messages between people, but it can be said that it is the first reference to the Internet where messages can be sent. Since then, technology has made it much more efficient, faster, and able to send much more volume over much shorter periods. The package shipments may be a problem, but letters are about to die because there is something else that will take over.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u71	Madam President. The majority of the budget committees are directed to the administration and owners to set a clear policy for the company and reevaluate its potential postal position. We're saying, we want to have a successful business here after you've finished your tour of it. This is why we will agree that this loan will be given to the company. I'd also like to remind you that it is at our third point in the qualifications we have to define the extent of the services within the framework of the European Regulation and that is what I referred to in my previous answer to. Senator. The state has certain obligations, but I didn't hear anything about ideas. A senator on how to meet Iceland's management problems. I'd ask him to go over it in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u72	A respectable president. I have a surveillance role. My job is, in effect, to monitor and criticize. But I don't have a whole ministry behind me of various experts who can present all the possible benefits of the case that I can take into account.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u73	You have opinions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u74	These are the qualities that are presented, and I criticize them. [[You have opinions.]] Shouldn't the company have a clear course at first? Is that not a natural requirement? I think it's a very normal standard for what the company needs to do in accordance with the circumstances it faces. But according to the words of various committees in the budget, between the 1st and the 2nd. I expected a much more stringent situation that would be much easier to follow to see if everything was really going the right way or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u75	What are some of these?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u76	It's your turn to find out.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u77	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The speech was given to Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson. It's sort of the thing I was going to show up for here, a respectable president, who's turning to Iceland. Hv. paritaprevir and vice president of the dog. The legal committee, Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, made it very clear. But I'd like to get into a lot of things that turn towards form and stuff. The senator crossed, as he did in 2nd. Pharmacopoection and format. I'm not going to repeat that as a question. A senator did a fine job in the talk, but I'm just going to say that I can't help but agree with most of the information. A senator came to his talk, in terms of the presentation and information we are working on, and this induction process, which I intend to proceed with in the second answer. Time passes so fast.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u78	A respectable president. There are certainly positive signs, everyone's a positive attitude toward doing better. That's good, and I suppose, of course, we do better in the future, it always works that way, we always aim to do better. The question may be, How can we reach that much sooner? There's something I think we should work on better. During the past two years, there has been a small number of progresses between the Ministry and Fundament Committee, perhaps only to support the implementation of the Parliament's budget, in the introductions of budget schemes, and on the financial bill and the financial programme itself. There's something I think we need. And I know that there's such work going on in the plots, and I know they're interested in their cooperation, so I just say, 'cause sooner, the better. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u79	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer, as well as his thanks. paritaprevir Þór Gunnarsson must have told me that we are in the satellite age. This may solve some of our work and in this induction process because we are now working on the law further and further in the process. I just want to be encouraging. Because this is how I view the situation, a senator continues to make comments that turn in shape. The legal committees are in the same boat there.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u80	A respectable president. Yeah, I don't think I can help it. I'm such a determined systemsman, I always realize how a system works, and as you go through a system more often, you see a variety of buttons you run into, and you point out or ask me, "Would it not be normal to do this in one way or another? There's a clear speed obstruction, or something like that. There has been no more than a positive attitude toward it, e.g. in the plot. I'm still working here right now on a third of the budget since I entered the council and I don't see very much, to be honest. When the government office brings up its presentation, they have gone very far ahead, but it seems that they have not gone far into other departments. So I think it's necessary to step on the fuel supply there and get the good work that is going there into all the departments and thus into the entire financial process. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u81	Madam President. I may find that to be of little greater joy than when there are some. Councilmen quote my words. How glad I would be and would be better if my words were quoted correctly! Hv. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson testified to me and to the words I uttered in the past, claiming before in his speech that I had claimed that the status of the State Fund had never been better. That's not what I said. Senator. Hv. A senator who claims to be a formalist and makes comments on matters above when some rules are not being followed must want to remain right behind when he sees a reason to quote other members of the council. What I said is simple: The nation's clean foreign position has never been better, and we should rejoice in it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u82	A respectable president. I prayed for respect inaccuracies, since this was just a matter of memory and understanding. A senator who is prepared for the council. I didn't mean to be inaccurate about that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u83	This is more than inaccuracies.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u84	At least I didn't think so. I felt that the general understanding I received from a talk. A senator is that the situation had never been better, and it was the general quote I was referring to and also wanted them to add to the need to take into consideration certain aspects of the situation as a whole.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u85	Madam President. Well, inaccurate? When someone isn't right - if I as an old journalist had gotten away with talking about it when I misjudged what they say -- yeah, and after feeling, thank you, yeah. paritaprevir þm. Kolbeinn Óttarsson Propeé - that it was just inaccurate I would not have continued as a journalist for a long time or at least Lost all credibility as a journalist. [[It's because of feeling.]] It's not inaccurate. It's just wrong. Senator. It's all right, people make mistakes, even why. paritaprevir Leví Gunnarsson Björn bear, and it's all right to correct that mistake when it is pointed out, do not try to get away with some phrase and talk about inaccuracies. [[The president calls.]] You're just supposed to apologize and say, "You're right, unfortunately I'm wrong. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u86	A respectable president. I'm just going to hope that's what. A senator can understand with me so that there are more quotations than just direct quotations. Hv. A senator assumed that I had been using a direct quote. [[Yes, they must be right, regardless...]] In case of a moment. A senator assumes that I didn't have a direct quote but continued the conversation, referring to what was said in the way I understood it, I continue to ask: Is this what is going on? Hv. A senator comes back and says: "No, it wasn't like that. That's how a conversation works. It's not that complicated. I didn't say that there was a direct quote. I apologize for not being more specific about this, but I don't think in general it's necessary. When you say that a direct quote is involved, it comes, I think, clearly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u87	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson for his history. I'm going to take some steps now from the 3rd. The middle class is disappointed in the fact that most parts do not apply to the 3rd. has diminished its policy of improving the state's outlook. The middle class is of the opinion that we should have set Kingdom spending priorities in other ways and that we should have lived in favor of future labour agreements. I think it is highly unlikely that there will be a 3.6% raise in pay for 3.6% of inflation. It is important to take the first steps to eliminate a cent. It's best for people in the lowest groups. For example, you wonder what justifies it, for example. that in terms of a case he works in the courts, the growth rate paid by a microchip should impair the individual's disability benefits as well as compensation. This system has to be changed and it has to happen immediately. Changes in this issue do not necessarily need to be questioned by the intended changes in the system. This could be done right away. There have been reports of large increases in the level of buying energy during the past few years, and this has included: Budget and economic ministers were focused on their case. In general over the past five years, the level of gratitude has improved by 30%, while in pensioners only about 6%. According to the VR codon, the increase to pensioners ranges from 4 to 68%. I'm going to take the next loan to Iceland. The largest part of the budget suggests to lend an Iceland market of 1.5 billion dollars. and is an adjustment to the bill of the material submitted by the 3rd Environment. This is a large amount of money, and if expressed in context, we will see that it is higher than the rate of disability in the next year, as the government suggests in the bill. This case was discussed considerably within the Committee and represented both the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs and the company. I agree that the country's mail service has to do without a trace of it. But the problem in business is serious and must be considered worthy of being presented with a financial committee. It would have been necessary for the Committee to call for a diagnostic work on the company's business from the point of view, such as Government Accounting, before the decision to lend the company the loan is made. Since the release of an official partner, the debt of the company has increased steadily. An independent assessment of the losses should have been carried out and the responsibility of the company's administration should have been considered, in addition, in particular. The failure of this important company is in progress and the bill is being sent to the taxpayers, as it was so often before. In the early stages, action should have been taken. This problem has not been set in one night. The director of the company has said that the number of mails dropped far beyond what was expected, thus drawing the income together. The income included the money. To cover the cost of postal services. A question mark will be put on how the company plan is conducted when there are such high levels of money in the management plan. In a letter to the European Commission, the December 2, issue of this magazine, the European Commission writes that the basis for Icelanders to be able to pay off loans is mainly a question of whether and how governments intend to finance all - time services that are expected. The existing bill for new mail is expected to dissociate the state's exclusive rights to the distribution of letters, but it has been intended to provide an overall service load for services that are not marketed for providing, although this has not been the case in the past few years. In addition to the decision to take part in private rights, it is especially necessary to answer how to solve an unfunded al-service burden that comes with the European Commission's license. The case is thus growing, for example, that Iceland can't repay unless you go to the full - time fund, which is empty. There are no sources required in the bill fund. If Iceland is to get money from the service fund, it needs to be financed. This funding could not go through the reserve next year, since this is not an unforeseen matter. So the setting around this matter is all in unread and by no means in accordance with good administrative practices. The central category does not support this loan while the assessment of the activities of the company has not been performed. V.E.G. President. I'm going to take the next step just to the sharp decline of success that has occurred in the short time and in the time of the financial work. In other words, during the past few weeks there have been significant changes in the success of the crown, and that has been the case, as mentioned earlier, affects the financial work between discussions. The government groups have decided that the cost of policy change would include: Reports show up on carbon dioxide emissions markets. This will be further followed. The Secret Bank Department's money policy committee recently published that one reason for the crippling weakness of the crown recently was uncertain of the WOW airline funding. I think it's necessary to stay for a while because it's natural that the homes in this country are very important. And it is now that when this airline entered the international market in 2011, it was of course important to the economy. The number of tourists has increased substantially, and those who arrive in the country mainly use machines from Icelanda and WOW. The news coverage of WOW's airline was long positive, and the company was growing up. Then there was a dramatic reversal in 2017, and no financial information is published until mid - July 2018, when the Society published its annual account very late. Then, in August we learned of the loss and the fact that the company is going to a bond tender, as we have seen. In connection with the stock market, it says that the airline's capital rate had dropped to 4.5% in June 2018. In turn, the commitment commission was not enough. Clearly, the company was caught on a wall and had no cash available to fulfill its commitments. I think it's right to do a little more about this because it's made a big difference about what happened afterward in the crown's status. Transporters are to be regularly evaluated for the financial status of pilots and, as we know, are systematically important to our economy and to the financial extent of the international airlines, to the national situation of economic stability and, of course, to the extent of security. Our service is our largest industry, and it is less than 42% of the country's export price. Thus, all travel is under good and safe transport. Therefore, it must be stated at the present time that it is indiscriminately that such a systematicly important business can take the financial rate down to 4.5% by the high-resurrection time and cause the rapid decline of the crown, resulting in rapid increases in in in in inflation, indexing, and increase in loan rate. A walkroom on, as I said, to perform a regular assessment of a pilot's financial status. Hence, it is legitimate and reasonable to ask whether a company's financial care is sufficient, and whether governments are not partly responsible for the sad failure of the event. The Icelandic international airlines should have been tested for financial and financial status. Systemically important businesses, such as air traffic, carry the risk of a government - owned financial company and tourism enterprise, if the result becomes a significant reduction in their activities. This, in turn, can affect the bank's money money to the State and, in general, the economy if the arrival of tourists is greatly reduced. In this regard, we should not forget that the banks are systematicly important as we know them and that, in comparison, we have today a strong monitoring of the financial activities that are being carried out by the FDA. Bank management is closely monitored, under conditions relating to loan growth, collection of deposits and the like. The same thing has to be true about the airline. V.E.G. President. Next thing I'm going to do, I'm just going to go to the carbon emissions market, which is the most important part of it and is a government policy list. The bill shows that a greater proportion of the committee contributes to selling our emissions on carbon dioxide for up to 4 billion dollars. or about 85% of sources. This is the stored record for 2013How would you describe it? This is the 20133/4:2018 account of the so - called ETS system. This has been reported, not to be permanent sources, but to part of Iceland's sources, during the annual distribution of markets between Member States, since Iceland became an active member of the ETS system in 2012 to 2018. Also stated by the Ministry that other countries in the EEA have sold their sources each year, but in the case of EFTA, Norway, Liechtenstein, and Iceland, certain legal factors have been unsolved, preventing these three countries from selling their share. Meanwhile, the sources they should have been sold have been stored. However, the source's salaries are critical in view of the value being increased each year and are now sold to meet the expansion of the more part of the 2nd matter. ... abundant. It is being sold to people who will eventually have to buy again safely and at a higher price. If, for some undefined technical reason, it is so necessary to sell the quota, the middle class is the belief that the value should be used for future weddings, even building climate climatic funds. What if there is no way for a government fund to be available when it comes to buying more salad? Then I suppose new taxes are needed in order to be prepared for the wedding, and as usual, the public is willing to pay the bill. As matters are being handled today taxably in this category, we are working on climates in a very limited way, in fact, at only 5% of the pollution, by taxation on gasoline and diesel oil. The media has criticized the lack of policy in this taxation process, as shown in a committee study at 2nd. So you might ask, Is the government's policy to further increase the budget for gasoline and diesel oil on the next semester for the purchase of pollutants? This, in turn, will be particularly devastating to the country, as the tax generally does. He is not fair enough to level the population. That is why there is so much tax increase, for which the government has stood and proclaimed it, incorruption. A healthy policy must be established on how Iceland will use carbon expenditures in the battle against climate change without causing them to bite the land or competitiveness of industry and reduce the energy of the economy. V.E.G. President. I'm going to take the next move to an adjustment proposal made by the Central Party at 3rd. and in terms of the special property savings and the important resources in force, that it can be used to be paid on an apartment loan, but it is the government's plan for this important resource to fall down in the middle of the next year, as shown in the financial bill. Of course, it is very important for those who are able to pay off debt, and this is a effective way to attribute property and to governments at any given time to create situations that encourage apartment owners to pay off debts where possible. By paying on an apartment loan with additional pension savings, the individual earns taxes and counterpayers as well as reduces the total interest rates and benefits. This has been an important tool, which includes the tax-free provision of special savings to the apartment purchases and the head seat of the housing bar. Information from pension funds has made significant use of this option. More than 6,500 people have applied for the options of buying on their first apartment. In October it was. was borrowed from nearly 3,000 people, and in the same month, some 408 applications, new applications, were received, according to current information from the head of the tax. In terms of domestic purchases, those who have taken advantage of this resource have been able to obtain special tax - tax frees for an apartment. The head position of the housing bar has been permitted to pay up to 4% of the recruiter's contributions and 2% of the payer's contribution, at a maximum of 500,000 bucks. A year for an individual and 750,000 a year. A year for married couples, or members who qualify for a similar taxation. The prices of property in this country have gone up substantially in recent years, as we know. The supply of other apartments is by no means demand. That, as we also know, explains the dramatic increase that has taken place in this market. Most underlying factors indicate that now in the highest altitudes, real - estate prices do not fall quickly. In spite of this, the government has decided to drop this warrant for the use of special savings to the apartment purchases and the subsidies of apartment loans. This is shown in the bill on page 114, and it is due to be in force in the mid - 2019's. This is an unwise arrangement on the part of the government. In addition, the collection of special property savings will be greatly reduced rather than the possibility of increasing the sources of this savings. The task force appointed by the then prime minister in June 2017 to review the role of pension funds in the building of jobs was simply an effort to increase the scope for special property and housing. At the beginning of this year, the group returned a more difficult report on the matter. This concerned working group suggests that the minimum pay in pensions will be raised from 12% of the pay to 15.5%, that governments look into agreement with stakeholders, that the law will be adjusted to provide additional permission for the provision of additional life savings as well as that funds can account for 3.5% of the 15.5% of the minimum legal value, or for the quality of their choice. In addition to securing the flexibility of funds partners to use their special savings to cover mortgages and/or pay for an apartment. Calculations have shown that individuals who place 15.5% of their income in the pension fund all their lifetimes will accumulate relatively successful pensions. With additional pensions, pension can become more than a job. Thus, a group suggests that the government examines additional sources of special savings and uses payable pensions for housing savings. The government's decision to cancel the general budget for the assessment will be made to buy an apartment or to pay off mortgages across the panel's proposals, which is a big disappointment. Thus, the Central Party suggests a change in the bill that the warrant for the use of special property savings to the apartment purchases and the payment of apartment loans will be extended by two years when the directive is to expire in the middle of the next year. However, this is an important way of handling matters that are important to a number of individuals and families. At the end, I would like to introduce only a chapter in the heading "How to Help With Good Issues. " The media supported a vote at 2nd. The budget is a series of laws from the government's proposals, and it is the policy of the Party to support good issues from where they come from. The government groups, the Independence Party, the left movement ◯ green supply and forward category, voted against all the central Party's changes and anticoagulants. In this regard, there is an example. The cancer club applied for financial contributions to the financial committee of over 70 million. K. to strengthen the business. The cancer community is doing a very important job in fighting cancer, which is truly thankful. The Society is conducting research, education, and prevention, and it is especially helpful to those diagnosed with cancer and to those who care for them. For many years, the cancer community has worked a very important job in the search for breast cancer among women. The Society's ministry is fragile, and it is very important to ensure for the future its harmony with experienced experts. The central category moved the change proposal to the bill for a special contribution to the cancer community to up to 50 million. K. However, the proposal was made by a government class, an independent party, a forwarding team, and the left movement a ◯ green supply. This is a very important work carried out by the cancer community, and the amount in the context of the budget is low. The people of the United Nations do not have much confidence in their national responsibilities. Sadly, this is primarily the case with the politicians. A team line of votes at the General Assembly is an old - fashioned political bitch, and not in the spirit of a new and better politics, which the people have called for. To support good conduct from wherever they come is an important way to increase respect for the activities of the Generals. Finally, the highest. Mr President, I'd like to come to the agriculture for a moment. Again, the government groups are uninterested in agriculture, and it is a real disappointment today at the 3rd and final bill's discussion that the majority should not contribute to the greater budget for agriculture to meet the negative impact of the customs agreement with the European Union. In this fall of the Council of Agriculture, the Minister of Agriculture said that he was involved in counterweighting efforts to meet the higher international competition. No sources are intended to improve the position of sheep farmers, and it is found that the government groups, the left greens, the independent party, and the forwarding party are once uninterested in the interests of agriculture.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u88	Mr. President. I'm going to let it pass for me to discuss with some strong voice what to say. The senator's respect of the Generals and that the government groups are there special doers in subtracting it. I think there may be some things that need to look at themselves, at least at present. However, the senator talked a little or much about what the government groups allowed themselves to miss to cut down on government spending and management, etc., but the other talk is so important that the middle party has to be improved in welfare matters. The largest segment has talked about cutting down government expenses, but has passed by, at least Most often, telling them where to cut down, who should get the Christmas greetings from the Middle East that their jobs, their institutions, their interests are not the worries of the Middle Party. What taxes should be dropped and what taxes should be raised or where to collect the money in order to increase the expenses for welfare that the pack is talking about? Somehow, it's all in a hurry to do this. I feel that if you're going to ask in this way - and it's all right to be against government spending, if you have that political opinion, then that's all right - they have to have the courage to tell where to cut down.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u89	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for coming up and making these inquiries for me. I'd like to encourage you. First, a member of the council to study the Central Party's opinion of 2nd. There are some answers to such questions. A senator asked about. The middle class has criticized the improvement in the state's outlook on this financial bill, and I can mention an example in this subject. The exchange of the Ministry of Health to two again cost more than 200 million. K. There are increasing employees, new Ministry Directors, etc. We don't see the need for this. There's money in there to save. The increase to environmental management is 800 billion. K. We do not see the need for such an increase. There's a turnoff of 500 million. K. We don't see the need for that. Thus, government spending can be saved in many ways when it comes to improving Kingdom interests. That is primarily what we have discussed. The amount of money can be used, e.g. to improve the damage that the government brings to the poor now for their new year.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u90	Mr. President. Yes, isolation policy, denial that climate is a real problem, and the need to consider that environmental factors, too, are viewpoints. It's fine if you're at least on the surface. I'd like to ask the senator later in answer to me with his special kickback, which he's making up for a subject in his committee. I don't feel any part of the committee's opinion, and I think I'm right about it; neither did it appear in the committee opinion of 2. Environment, how the senator will face the loss of the income of the rural communities they will inevitably be affected if their proposal for the special kickback succeeds. Does the Central Party want to raise the response given to the local community, or how will they meet the inevitable loss of income? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u91	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. I'd like to start by adding a little bit about the carbon issues. The middle class is completely aware of the challenges we face in this regard. However, this taxation has to be such that it does not discriminate against the people of the country, and it lacks a complete policy on how Iceland will use carbon expenditures in the battle against climate change without affecting the country or competitiveness of industry and reduces energy from the economy, to the point where it is totally available. Hv. A senator then asks how to compensate for the loss of income if the special kickback is extended. I can explain that in the hunting interest discussion, I suggested that the local communities be allowed a share in the fishing fee, and there is a source of income that could be used to achieve that loss. [[The president calls.]] It would be wish. This was followed by a senator and his company of directors.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u92	Mr. President. I'll have a word with what. Birgir Þórarinsson on the opinion of the committee and what it says about special property and housing. Now it may be that I misunderstand the text here and my speech. A senator before, but I can't see better than that. A senator believes that the government is now deciding to put down the possibility, or rather, to no longer allow people who are making their first purchase to take advantage of their property savings. That's wrong. In case of a moment. A senator feels that it is good to say that it is wrong. The concept that individuals who are engaging in their first pay will be able to use their special savings for ten years is permanent. It won't fail in the middle of the next year, unless it doesn't. It is a permanent arrangement that will continue until then. A decision is made by members of the council. I wanted to share it. Hv. A senator may be able to reveal whether he is in the belief that he is taking this measures to those who are engaging in his first purchase. It would be fine to know, but it may also be good to correct a misunderstanding. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u93	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. He has a big misunderstanding, and I encourage him to read the committee opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u94	I've already done that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u95	There is no mention of the first purchase. I realize that this law remains inside, and it also says in the financial bill on page 20. 114, so it's a misunderstanding. Senator. This proposal goes on to extend the arrangements for the purchases, it does not stand for the first purchases, and the down payment of apartment loans, so the proposal is completely correct and logical, and this adjusted accordingly. In case of a moment. A senator believes that there is some misunderstanding on my part.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u96	Mr. President. It's so good to be clear. A senator's got it all figured out. However, it was to be understood by both the committee party and his talk that he stands in that belief, as I mentioned earlier. I'm glad the misunderstanding is mine. That, of course, matters because this is an extremely important resource. I agree with what you think. One member of the committee's opinion that we should consider further increasing the possibility of individuals to use their special savings, I do not speak of the additional special property or special property generated by an increase in pay of interest to 15.5%. However, it must be part of the discussion that we will take when there are pooled suggestions for housing in general, so the proposal is made. A member of the Parliament and the Central Council on further support for the special property kickback is premature. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u97	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. I also object that this motion of the Middle Party is premature. This is a plan that has been in effect, and it has proved very well. I traced it in a talk earlier, and it is mentioned in the committee opinion that a number of people are taking advantage of the resources. I don't quite understand the appeal to make it all suddenly untimely. It's good to go. A senator admitted that he agrees that it is important to increase the amount of space needed to take advantage of this special property strategy. That is exactly what the staff suggest that I mention here, appointed by the prime minister in 2017. So I'm surprised to learn that the governments of the United States suggest that the treatment should be completed over the next year, contrary to the proposals of the Outfit. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u98	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The speech of Þórarinsson's son. A lot of good things to talk about anyway. Senator. But I can't live under the words of the present. A government is not interested in agriculture, and its high standards are classified. Government standing. To correct that word, I want to refer to the committee's opinion of more than 2. which establishes the area of 12, agriculture, which shows that a large part or an overwhelming part of the budget is bound in government and farmers contracts, and that there are substantial amounts of money. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ In recent years, agrienvironment schemes have been rapidly altered. Significant reductions in toll protection, increased pay costs in agricultural recovery and large increases in bone import competition with national production have reduced the quality of farms. Smaller market shares and low prices as well as reductions in exported agrienvironmental products are damaging much of the agrienvironment schemes. Increased import permissions, and especially the import of raw meat, make the agricultural competitiveity more difficult. It is important to keep this position in mind when preparing financial programmes and reviewing agricultural contracts next year. [...] The majority suggest that preparing financial and the next budget will be considered for an increase in food production as well as for an increase in the use of valuables. with the targeted cooperation of the institutions of the state of agriculture, food research, and development. Here is a clear interest. Governments on agriculture business, and I'm going to take less of it. A member of the body also notes that a year ago we faced the problems of sheep farmers. This is not a solution that is solved overnight, but we are very well aware government groups on the subject of farmers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u99	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson, chairman of the budget board, responded. Of course, I welcome what you're doing. A senator said that governments are very aware of the state of agriculture. What a cause for joy that is! Even so, there is a time when action must be carried out. It's just that way. In particular, if we look at this customs agreement with the European Union it will have a significant impact on domestic agricultural production. V.E.G. Agricultural minister said that he was working on counter measures to meet the problem of domestic agricultural production leading to, and facing, on account of this agreement. It would have been perfectly natural for us now to have access to some financial resources to cope with this crisis and to take counter measures. No one has ever been given the highest degree of counterargument. Aggressor has proclaimed. It's time they started seeing the day. But, of course, I hope that the government parties will bring them a huge appeal for the agriculture of the next financial programme. But the situation is simple. There is no payment to meet the problem. It is not to see any financial resources for sheep farmers who are still experiencing problems. However, I would like to thank you for the fact that only the services of fur were met. But to me it is clear that words must follow actions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u100	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer, and I appreciate it. At the same time, a senator makes it clear that the greater part is to offer support to fur farmers, as we did a year ago in support of sheep farmers. I restate the fact that we re-evaluate market agreements and financial programmes, and what. A member of the council came here for the most important protest campaigns. Minister, we'll handle these matters. I think we agree there, me and what. Senator. But then I'm just gonna finish this off on a positive note and thank you. A senator on duty. It's a legal committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u101	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson, president of the budget board, is pleased to hear that he is concerned about the agriculture. I expect that we will see it clearly now at the work that lies ahead next year, and it is important that this be the dominant opinion within the governments. You see, I don't feel that it's done much at all, but these matters are urgent. Farming is very important to us, as we all know, and it is the production of Icelandic food. And once we've just celebrated the 100th anniversary of sovereignty, it's better to assume that a powerful agricultural product, Icelandic food production, is, of course, the foundation of sovereignty. Finally, I'd like to say good-bye to what. Chairman of the budget board, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, for a pleasant cooperation on a financial committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u102	Mr. President. The budget of each government bears the mark of the priorities that the government operates on. If you should read in that priorities, or whatever ambition the government has in this regard, it gives evidence that the government views the government as being overcrowded, here is the opportunity to spend money as if none were tomorrow, if you might say so. In fact, it's a little interesting that when you see the Independence Party leading the government business, words and actions never go together. There's always talk of counseling. It is always said of the importance of a well - kept budget, the careful management of public funds, for, at least, nothing is easier than wasting money on other people. At the same time, however, there is a full increase in expenses. In fact, during the past two or three decades, few groups may have provided a higher rate of financial gain than just the Independence Party. The 18 - year class's reign included a third increase in the rate of each individual's spending on solid prices. So great was the cost increase, so great was the feast that the expenses were replaced by a fixed price for the next six years, at least since there was no room for financial compensation, and in fact, it was involved in other categories to cut down and cut down this unprecedented interest from the Independence Department shift. And now it's time to go back to work. We're looking at the government budget and financial programme that increase the cost of solid prices by a quarter that I like about the duration of the government budget. It's a preemptive irresponsibility policy, I must say. It turns out so clearly that this is the government's formation of the deadly compromises to attack an increase in spending on every continental fiscal level, which should be reduced at the same time. It follows that either of these factors will be broken, that will not be the basis, that will not be the financial strength of a government fund to deal with such a flagrant guarantee. What's not said in this policy is that it's obvious that there needs to be a rise in taxes and a fairly serious increase in the cooling economy if it's worth the payoffs that have been given here. It is so sad to see this, after all the discussion after the collapse of the importance of the higher responsibilities of finance, the improved affairs of the government laws on public finance, which, in fact, were criticized at the time that they would never be able to harness the state's financial affairs if politicians really wanted to release them. This is what we see happening here again, that the guidelines on public financial matters have nothing to say, even though an unprecedented increase in expenses that we have yet to witness is yet to be said. They do not intervene in such circumstances. It is even more disappointing to see that even in the one location where these criteria should have stood as some type of braking, i.e. that there will be no less than 1% of GDP in the government itself, then the government itself will break when it is tested, and now the budget that goes to this target. That's the payout party in all of this. It is the nature of government that priorities must always be set. You can't do everything for everyone. The political subject at any given time is: How are we right in setting priorities when we meet the basic needs of our community, the most important projects of our time? We do not try to promise everything we eventually know that we will never be able to live up to. At the same time as this massive eco-efficiency is going on, we see that the real economy is getting cold pretty fast, and although there is no reason to panic over this trend, although there is no reason to believe that some deep economic crisis is ahead, we are going to see that the income stocks of the state will not be as strong in the future as it has been. It follows when we are at the height of the economy that everything comes at the same point; the individual income is at the top, the consumption of the individual is at the climax, the contribution of an enterprise is at the peak, and, therefore, all the major financial institutions of the state's budget yield the maximum amount of money at that point. No responsible government will put off this highlight of the budget of the state's budget. No one can assume that this will bring about future financial benefits. It is well - known for its practicality, we can say, the government's terms. The wealth of land production income tends to increase considerably in the highest interest, but it is eventually delayed. It doesn't take a deep down cycle to make this swing happen, on the contrary. We see that clear mark now. People are beginning to hold a little more of their hands than before, whether in large investment decisions such as shopping or buying cars, or just taking advantage of their own resources, as our own figures on personal consumption show. This all results in a decrease in the income of the state's funds. At the same time, the prospect of inflation has deteriorated, meaning that the level of government funds has increased at the same time. We can see that the level of employment is getting slightly worse and that there are certain flashes of light. All of this results in increased financial expenditures of the state's funds. The fact is, next year there is no room for government funds to cope with this coldness. It is not the smallest effort, either on the part of a government or on the part of a legal committee, to have a table at a critical time. I'm sorry to see, because it seems to me that, in the final analysis of public financial laws, all the discussion of the careful practices we've been through in recent years, there's nothing left but a very beautiful frame of management around such a harsh practice as ever. The same economic failures that have been made in the past, the same economic elation as previously criticized. This does not mean seeing anyone truly material or material difference in spite of all the work that has been added. There may be more information, and there are other factors, but the point of the matter is, of course, that there is more responsibility in the economy for government management, and there is no change in anything. We've made the exact same mistake again over a huge increase in financial expenses at the height of the economy and the policy of this government is trying to continue this development in the years to come, a policy that will not be able to go on without a significant increase in taxes. It is also interesting to watch the vision and policy of this government when it comes to key issues. If we start with health care, it is certainly increased in expenses, but at the same time, it has been cut up against the privateized part of the health system without having any vision of whether it will provide some more practical profit in the form of a service. This is so far as we are sending a considerable number of people from the country into replacement operations, even though we know that each operation there is at least three times more than if it is performed here by private agents prepared to do this. I don't understand how such priorities are achieved. This is some political criticism, but at the same time it seems a deliberate waste of public funds. That's the only way you can look at it. And there is an attack on the healthcare system where it cannot be seen that there is no costly analysis behind, only applied to the private health system and given declarations of the transfer of certain services to the public health system without any diagnostics at all, at least not introduced, which shows the benefits of a state's fund of such changes. I find this rather sad to see from just this very obligation to make sure that we have been treated well with public funds, that it will benefit us as best we can, that the practicality of our health - care system is as great as possible to be able to ensure the highest level of service. You will not be aware of this in the priorities of the government, on the contrary. At the same time, there are no better costs for the health - care system than there is at the same time taking action based on political charges that directly reduce the effectiveness of the same system, which means worse use of health care. In addition, it is unique to watch emphasis such as, for example, On the structure of nursing homes, which has been noted repeatedly in public discussions that there is a severe shortage of reperfusion problems, as ugly as that word is, the Land Hospital is on high, and at the same time we cut down contributions to build up the nursing staff for the elderly. I don't give much explanation for any projects being delayed. I think it would be easy to get other projects into place for political purposes. I think this was simply a simple explanation for cutting down a large budget team when the government got into trouble with its spending promise. This may especially show that the very small hiccups that came into national interest now between 1 and 2. and the government had to deal with its problems, a heavy cut-off knife was directed to health and social care. You can't see any attempt by the government to look to other potential factors and achieve higher economics in other areas of the state. There are simple examples to support this. Why couldn't we have shot e.g. plans for the State's subsidies of a publishing edition over time to protect the welfare system? What about other assignments that we are going on? If we take this rough halve, i.e. That half of the state's fees go to health and social services and half of the money in anything else could be avoided except to postpone the continuation of nursing homes, take 1.1 billion from micro-energy pensioners which corresponds to approximately one. 55,000. on every disability pensioner they don't get next year? I think that group is going to be a lot about that money, cutting out the expected level of disability growth in microbiological and sensibilities, leaving that group with no money gain growth, and probably with a considerable cutback in the next year. I think it's incredibly sad to watch at the same time, and here's a government with all this payout cheer. One would have intended that the knife could carry down somewhere other than this group. As we look back on the education system, the importance of attacking large education, often set out as an spending goal rather than a quality goal, has been expressed. The policy has been set on spending criteria as a share of land production without providing some clear set of quality, success criteria, education systems. What you pause first is that, along with what we all talk about, about the importance of promoting a national occupational education, that question will have at least a relative increase in expenses between years in this government. Again, words and actions do not mix. I find a little special and interesting to compare my experiences with the two budgets I've put out most of my short session, on the one of the budgets without the government before 2017, where a remarkablely good and efficient debate was achieved and worked on a budget of the actual political priorities for the budgeting and it was working across all classes, and, on the other hand, working on the 2018 budget, it was certainly a very serious crisis for a period of time, and especially now the budget for 2019. It's just a formula from the executives. A financial committee, such as I experience it, is basically completely out of office. There was no room left for a legal committee to change between 1 and 2. Because the government simply made some adjustments between discussions that left the committee with exactly 0K. In fact, in time to respond to any of the requests the committee had received from all the guests who had come before the committee. Hence, to achieve at least something for the whole group, the plan to break the exit target was shocked. Then it happens again now between the 2nd and 3rd. There are considerable and extensive changes from the European Commission and the scope of the Commission itself in some way is extremely limited. Yet, it adds some 200 million to the other, but it only adds further damage to the target of survival, this 1% to the minimum. I have to say, as it is, when we set these criteria at the time, or when the Council laid down laws on government finance and set the guidelines that should apply, I think that in view of the weakness of these guidelines in advance, they would have had to make the ultimate requirement for ourselves that these were fundamental things that would not be broken, although we would not violate the rules set there. But for the first time that this really is going to be a test, for the first time that a budget is in that position, since the laws on government finance were set aside to improve, not between debates, but the worse, only pressure is on, nothing marvelous, only, in the state of state, we break the basics. These provisions will be of little value if we are not even going to apply them and have little value. If they are not even the basics of being followed, they are of very little value. And if we violate this principle now, what next? So we'll walk a little longer next time, won't we? We can have 1% of the remaining targets, but it may not be of primary importance, even if we return only half, it's within a margin of error. This is yet another manifestation of the inadequacy that has always been here in government administration and, unfortunately, continues right now. All of this, as before in this discussion, has not been changed. We will make adjustments in the budget at 3rd. and our effort in making these changes is to try only to adjust the priorities of the budget of the budget as it is established on the part of the government in the 3rd Environment. But what we might do with our weak efforts is to contribute more money for research and innovation to our already - lacking some 147 million. K. so that they do not really need to be cut down in that category. At the same time, we suggest that the payment of the publishing of books be simply postponed. That's 400 million saved. We suggest that the national hospital service will be supported by some 150 million people. On a number of legal committees, we have heard a number of examples in our review of these lawsuits that local hospitals are not jealous of their position. What are some of these? The West and the South. There's only been a reaction to the problem north of Akureyri, but we're making 150 million. K. Another one in there. We suggest that medical services outside hospitals receive extra funding of 200 million. K. and the money spent to work on the lists at home, e.g. in replacement operations, where we are keeping patients waiting very long today. It can be taken into account when talking about the official waiting list for such a procedure as 12 months, that it takes 6◯12 months to get an interview from a doctor to get on that same list of donations. We suggest that these funds, to maximise their uses, be spent here in the country, not by sending patients out of the country. We suggest another 500 million. K. In the building of nurses, that is just half the amount cut down between 1 and 2. ... butwe think it'll all meet your basic needs. At the same time, we propose 59 million. K. will be devoted to the survival agencies in a rhythm of demand, but at the same time to 70 billion. K. Go to the cancer club. Finally, we suggest that we replace the Ministry of Health with no additional financial resources, but if the Ministry or the new advisors are simply assigned to process it, we are really unable to change the government's organization in this way that obviously has added mismanagement to the government's affairs. In fact, it was in the discussion that Generalis's opinion may be strictly related to these matters, but it would leave the Commission or the government at any moment after deciding how to divide. The Senate would merely evaluate whether it was justified in spending more money. Finally, the most outstanding change in this is that in the next year, micro- and older cities, pensioners, and pensioners, will be ensured by 1% increase in money that we expect to make at about 1,200 million. K. This is a substantial amount of money. On the other hand, we have suggested here repeatedly that the change in hunting costs will simply be postponed, a better time spent next year trying to achieve some cross - political solidarity on that matter. In this context, there have been numbers, but it seems that the next year's additional income would be 4,55 billion, which will do better than meet the 1,800 billion. K. the additional expenses we'll contribute to our health. In fact, it would also be enough to place the government's terms before 1% of its boundaries, as mentioned earlier, in the case of a violation of the government. We hope, of course, that this will bring about an excellent agreement on these projects, especially in the status of the pensioner and the pensioner. If we look at the fact that as we already realize that the inflation of this year has become considerably higher than expected, with less than 4%, and the prospect that in the next year, inflation may also become considerably weaker than expected, and that the position of the crown, one of the main causes in the inflation within the next year, is considerably weaker than the Hagbournium would expect for re-evaluation of national interest, and all as likely to become greater than this estimated 3.6%, I don't think there is a need to ensure a better level of susceptible group, and I don't believe that it can be successful at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u103	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Wazowski's Víglundsson, excellent speech. I often find myself listening carefully when it came to it. A senator will discuss terms, economic issues in big context, and the development of government spending. I agree with what. A senator as he discussed the development of government spending, whether in time or as much as in the future, that we have a interest in cost that does not provide for sustainability in the future. I know why. A senator is very conscious of the cumulative need for many areas in which there is a need. We can mention transportation, we can mention the health system, we can mention education. Hv. A senator made it to over 50%, 54.1%, if I recall correctly, go to one of the Department of Health, which is still a matter of course. A senator knows very well. I want to leave some questions for what? Senator of last year's counter-sponsored. Hv. A senator said that we were at the height of the economy. Is that so? Is that the opinion of a senator? If we are applying ourselves to increasing our education, transportation, health and welfare expenses to meet this cumulative need, where would that be? A senator cuts back?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u104	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator and the chairman of the Committee of Sheep the Antiquated Committee and uses the opportunity to thank him for his cooperation. Although I think the results were quite accurate, cooperation with a budget board was still very good. For example, when it comes to the typical discussion of where to cut down, there are two types of cuts at the expense. On the other hand, there is a way of managing government, where we can do the same good or even better service for less money, which I feel is so lacking in the thought of running the State. And what do I mean by looking, e.g. Should you pretend you're a wasteer from many places? Where are the plans to make when it comes to education? We cut down the student's test for a year, but as soon as there were ideas of reducing the number of colleges together, the government would object, even if it would give eye - to - eye impressions that when we were losing a whole year's out of our high school system, about 4,500 students, there's got to be some kind of opportunity for some sort of practicality in this. When it comes to health matters, the general welfare issues, we know well that by adding funds to certain factors, such as the case. Psychological services, timely actions such as replacements and other such, can save substantial expenditures in our system in the long term. Psychological services can reduce the incidence of disability and, in time, save considerable resources in the health system. The same can be said to deal with problems in advance, such as when it comes to replacement operations and such, we know that these are costs that will not go away. The same is true of the nursing room, of building up and freeing them in a land hospital, and so on. [[The president calls.]] In the state business, I often find that there is some overall perspective on that subject. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u105	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson. Hv. A senator is very clear on the government business, I can say it here. All his work to do. It is testified by a legal committee. I can't help but agree with what. A senator of our interest in improving our government. I'm not sure we can meet these big numbers in the meeting need at once. With regard to the criteria, we should not necessarily bind to some percentage of GDP, we should design a success scale. Hv. A senator mentions high school. That's where we're achieving the desired results. With the shortcut, the increase in donations is made to a student, although the total effort, over 30 billion, is being maintained. We'll keep the water in it. I am more concerned about the social consequences that this will bring to the future. Hv. A senator came to my destination, and I don't even know what to do. Senators in it, he'll figure it out. We're under 1%. But just to be said, it just so happens that it should be set up with a single decimal, and it will save the case, so we are in 0.97, and then it goes up to 1. We just got away with it. Of course, this needs to be more dramatic, but it highlights the situation as a matter of course. A senator came into the matter of how confined we are to this situation when we go down between economic forecasts. I'm asking why. A member of Parliament: Does he believe that we should enter the public financial law and change this context into sections 4, 5, 6, 7, and 10. par.? We're trapped when it comes to some sort of eco-efficiency control. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u106	Mr. President. What an interesting question! Senator. In short, it might be said that my attitude is this: It is quite true that we are quite narrow - cut, especially when the kingdom is only tight. We can see that with this small change, in the foundation of the same next year's production as predicted, but only slightly higher inflation forecasts, there was a hole instantly forming in the recovery compared to this. The big issue for us must be the following: When we take the core value of the government law on government funds to be self-sustained, that we are moving in the direction corrected in our plans, we may be much more healthy that we have control, when such slight changes as these are meant to occur, what this means in the economics of the corrected environment. How can we look at this in the long run? That's really what I think is supposed to be the core of long-term policy development in the state of money, that this is an honest presentation, that we're not promising the expenditures that we're going to be able to deal with in the long term, different from raising taxes, that we're putting ourselves off at any given time, both on the income and on the remuneration side and on the rest of that, that, in the long term, this should be sustainable and so reasonably consistent in the state of money. Then we can make use of the amount of space that we have once made for subsidies or to spit into public projects, e.g. when the depression starts. But the tragedy of the situation today is that after a very deep down cycle and a strong rise, we are still standing with a considerable cumulative need in government construction, having failed to reach our tail. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u107	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I wonder what. A senator agrees with me that we are at a significant turning point in the history of Iceland on economic issues. We've been in on seven, eight-year-olds downhills and we've had crisis times. Now the criteria have changed a bit. Economics have changed a lot, and all of our environments are dealing with economic issues. We are in the seventh year now in a positive pace, still in the business balance. As recent developments have been, it seems to swing a bit, but the balance will likely be maintained if a similar order is now going to remain, and if oil prices are similar to what they are now. It is natural that these sharp changes have always been important to us, the price of oil, and such factors. I want to ask you why. A senator on this particular view of the economy because I often feel that his case is a slightly black picture of where he is heading and is being referred to in the old age, whether he is equally negative about our having such depressions as 1969, the oil crisis 1974, 1978, and then, in 1991-1995. How does he view the future in general? I sometimes feel like he's got a little black on her. In recent years, we've had tremendous tax growth, and I agree with the senator on that. We are heading for 33 billion, much less than the last two years of government law. Last year there were over 50 billion. There you go. A member of the government who actually proposed the budget that we agreed on last year, last autumn. What a change that government had provided! Before that, after 2016, it was also 50 billion. Then I just want to ask you a question at the end of the day. A senator came in with regard to the growth of the Kingdom fees in 1991How2009, whether he had said that it was 33% of physical growth during this period. [[The president calls.]] I just missed the number.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u108	President. Thank you. A senator resists. So I don't forget, that's, like, a third-third of the rate per person on a fixed price per person of the country, from 1.5 million on a fixed price to 2.3 million, if I recall it correctly. You're right, there's a lot to change into the economy. Hv. A senator says I'm a pessimist. That's right, i.e. I am actually a very optimistic person by nature, but I have always considered it better to approach this subject, the criteria of the state's budget, in rather a pessimistic way, but trust that it may be better than expected, so we are at least prepared for worse developments. It is true that in many respects our situation in the economy is unprecedented in our business living through all the uplifts we have never experienced before, and it is true that we have an unscrupulous foreign situation that has never occurred before in our history. Of course, this is a sign of far greater health in the economy than was e.g. Just a decade ago. I've never feared, and have said so many times in this pessimism, another crash as it occurred here in 2008 and 2009, and thinks it almost impossible under present circumstances. It is also good to bear in mind that at every turn of events, we have said, "This time it's all different from last time. " Part of it may have come true, but in part it's not. We can remember that the Internet and technology revolution were radically changing the structure of the economy, but this proved to be less effective than we planned. The banking system became new under our economy a decade ago, but it disappeared. [[The president calls.]] I'm not afraid of anything like that about tourism, but it's good to remember that things can also develop to the worse, and then they have to have room to meet that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u109	Mr. President. I'm gonna share an interest in it. A senator on economic issues in historical terms often thought about it and try to get over it. It's a little interesting to think about what came out in the language of the day. In the previous talk, a senator who has increased by 33% during this period, 1991◯2009. In fact, it's a little strange to have in 2009 because if we take the years from, like, 19913/4/2008, 2008, that's the real economy in the community at that number. [[2008.]] It's just watching that the real economy of GDP is on you during this period. The figures are monitoring, and they generally do so in the same context. It would be interesting in the context of a study of 2009◯2018 with a similar ideologies and then seeing how this has been fulfilled because the historical context has generally been that way, and it happens there, in some ways, there is the real growth of government spending and then human physical growth, i.e. per capita, in the general economy. I just wanted to get this into and whether he'd put it in context of that when he's talking about a raise in the state budgets from 1991◯2008 with the actual economic developments in the country at the same time. Usually, this is a balance they are looking for, and this economy is usually the government spending and some of the country's population.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u110	President. Thank you. A senator again. That's right, as a matter of fact. A senator comes on, of course, the land production increased very much over a period of time. It reflects this ravishing effect of the state's financial affairs that has always been with us. If we take 2008, which was the final point of my approach, then our economy was completely unbiased at this time. We had been through a tremendous leap of power, and there all the cautionary purposes should have been taken up on the government case, not to push it out into the state budget. It was seen very well that the government that then turned on the remainder or keeps a decline in state spending on a person through the down cycle, precisely because the distance was less than nothing. It is this that has always been criticized by the government's budget, this classic Italian economistry, some such as against it, but in such a fluctuating economy as ours, it is so important that the state fund is able to operate in public projects, even with great force in times of economic downturn, but not always in the same places as that we don't have to repeat this economy after a fluke, that we need to cut down both into public and even the welfare system itself when we have to squeeze even a little bit, that there's no room left. That's what I'm criticizing with this spending plan, actually enjoyed it. A senator said that we in the former government had been carrying almost the same ◯ambiguous expansion as this government, for I do not recall better than in the budget talk a year ago, the government was telling a lot about how much was being improved by the former government. But this is the essence of a matter. [[The president calls.]] Eventually, we need to have a better balance. [[The president calls.]] In terms of money when it comes to these great economic swings that we always go through.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u111	A respectable president. We're discussing budget here for the 3rd. It's a fictitious budget, a minority that's been left behind in the past few years. We can go all the way back to the time when the collapse occurred, when microorganisms were impaired, but they also were promised that the first thing they would do would be to correct those things. That correction has not yet been performed. The skin's come down. After the fall of the year, all of us have been corrected by the help of a pensioner. If we look at the current budget, it's a little strange that it clearly shows that the pay sheet has increased by 6%. What, though, is the right price for those who do not have it? They're supposed to get 3.6%, but 2.9% of the price and inflation, but if it's true, they should get about 10%. If we take the law as it is and it is clear - I think it was during the time of Davíð the son of Oddsson, which was placed on it - that there was a standard for the development of pay then. In connection with the increase in micro-pair, either pay or the index value of consumer prices. Either of these two is a more efficient option, but unfortunately, it has always been accepted into all the budgets that have damaged micro-piercing. If it had been gone, just follow a pay development as it has been in the past few years, the desperate would be much better today than they are. If we are going to the current pay development, just since 20103/42017, the pensions at that time have increased by 74,000 dollars. or just over a little bit, but the election has increased by 581,000. $74,000. to the desperate, the Council Buy, about 581,000. of 2010◯2017. What does this tell us? Yeah, that just tells us that it's wrong. And there is another factor that shows the folly in this case, that is, evolution, e.g. I mean, unemployment improvement. The nonemployment rate was 227,000. ... butnowthere's300,000. This is a 19% increase, and there was a loss of unemployment. They need a lot more than disability. Theoretically, it has always been the same. If we take it even further, if we thank you: Yes, we can thank you for one thing, that kind of embezzlement in the bill we're about to agree with, there's a risk of paying taxes and reducing strength. Nevertheless, let us review the impairments in micropigs. Where's one ugly thing? It's Christmas. What do we get in a Christmas bonus? 181,000 cc. What did I get as a pensioner from the pension fund and the government's insurance agency last Christmas bonus? 6,000 K. How could it be that I got 6,000 bucks? In a Christmas bonus, when the U.S. National Institute of Insurance says that it is up to 43,000 bucks. A Christmas bonus? Yeah, the damages, they can't even give everybody the same Christmas bonus. Also, if we put this in another context, we'll get twice as high a Christmas bonus, 81,000 bucks, plus an extra with each child. This isn't going to get cripples. So there is always discrimination. For my part, I say, given my position today, to get $181,000. Christmas bonus, 6,000 bucks. Last time, I should have 6,000 bucks. today. Anyone out there who gets 43,000 bucks, they should get 80,000 bucks. just like out - of - work and extra with children, without impairment. The largest part of disability lives and is paid for by taxes of 239,000. per month. These are 2.9 million, and if we put them in context with what the members of this nation and the rest of this nation have received in recent years, this is a shameful number, and after taxes it is 204,000. beds. Nobody's gonna make it. Of course, this also applies to many elderly ones. They don't get much. The largest part is the hunger lice that is dosed into budgets, this financial bill, and in recent years. If it were given and we had acted as if it were originally meant to be in connection with the character discount, it would be double today. That would be 300,000. IRS and incompetent. And would that be quite a luxury? I say no. It can't be, because we must also look forward to the fact that there must be a little bit strange in this context that taking the priority of consumers, which is at the Ministry of Health, would fall. Can you imagine? The Department of Health Displacement Control has dropped from 223,000 cases. to 180,000 k. I don't know what's happened to the Ministry of Health. Has all of them experienced such disaster? How they were suddenly able to reduce the point of forwarding so much is incomprehensible to me. They should have greatly increased it. Then there are other examples. You know, rent has gone beyond control. People are always made more difficult and difficult to support themselves. Low-payers don't feel any better. We need to realize that those with about 500,000 bucks. paid today, not too much, because once they've been paid, there's relatively little left. Their taxes have increased during this period by some 80 billion. It must be strange in this context if we also take those with about 300,000 dollars, where taxes since 1996 have increased by 19 billion. We're paying taxes, not just poverty, we're paying a lot of taxes, and I think we're being greatly embarrassed by this community of ours to do so. Then there's the health system, the mental illness. One of the few people who worked and were able to reach out without ordering time or doing anything was laid down. Ah, people at death's door, waiting, waiting. Then there is the health system, waiting for action, not for a month, not for a year, but even for two, three years. You got drugs, you got pain, you let me know. It sucks that such an offer is offered. At the same time, there is money to pay for people to go to Sweden for activities that cost three times as much, three operations could be taken for one. Then there is another subject that we should consider, i.e. how we are going to increase the income of the state's budget in order to improve the quality of the pensioners and others in this country. Yeah, we could, for example. The first step is to set up correct budgets for the implementation of state funds. Most of the big government funds, even the rural communities, are over 100%. That's where we're wasting billions of dollars. What does that say about us? At the same time the Norwegians can have 15% under their budgets, we're 100% over. It tells us that it's a very strange financial administration and we need to deal with it seriously. I say, we're 10◯15 years behind the Norwegians. We learned much from them, not only in these matters but also in other matters. If we take it as a whole, it's time and it's time for us to have enough respect for the Generals. Unfortunately, it's probably at the lowest point right now. Why? Yes, because we don't listen to them. The largest part of the people out there is to pray for justice, pray that they are put first, and that they will live with dignity. Is this really possible? No. This could be done immediately and just take the example of those who are waiting for and holding up 4 billion. What are they for? Yes, if you can if this or the other thing comes through. Why don't they take the 4 billion now and give them to the people. People need this, they need it now before Christmas. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] In this context, it can also be pointed out that the worst qualified ones, the 70,000 80,000,80,000K recipients. to survive, for some reason had been foreign or something, not to get complete benefits from the government insurance agency. Well, that's being corrected now, fortunately. But what does that say about us? It took an emissary of the Generals to be corrected. They need to be corrected for four years of time. Four years back, people are being corrected because the State's insurance agency refused the rights, the rights they had by law. Hence, it also tells us that we need to examine carefully what the government's insurance agency is doing and whether people who are weaker and unable to defend themselves are being violated every day. I say, if we're doing this, it's a council and nation to be ashamed. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u112	Mr. President. Hv. A senator spoke only of the 69th grade. Social Security Act I wanted to come in on. Before I finish it anyway, there's one comment on public projects that always exceed plan and major projects 100% ahead of schedule. That's not right, just to be perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u113	200%.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u114	- No, no, it's much lower, because this news came up from the beyond-programming programmes, not from all schedules, since it decreases the average. I asked the General Information Service for figures from the age 69 p.m. Social security law was set on what would be pay development of the year, what would be inflation of the year, the legal increase. It begins in 1998 with the increase from 1997 to1998 4%. At the same time, inflation is 1.66% - all right, higher than inflation - with 9.37% developing in pay. There, it is very clear in the law that the two are supposed to be higher. Next year, 11.28% increase, all right, pay development 6.81, inflation 3.44, higher! Okay, okay, so can I. For more years than 20 years, which are listed from 1998◯2016, there are five years in which the figure increases more than the rate of pay development or inflation. The overall increase is generally higher according to pay development and the difference from the crude calculation to do is 50%, i.e. The pay of the Social Security Act, the pension, should be 50% higher than the current calculation of pay development would always have been used by higher numbers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u115	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. If we take what he said - 50% higher, what are we talking about? We're talking so low that this 50% is not a huge amount. But 50 percent of Congress's pay is high. This only shows that percentages are to be stopped. We've got to get back to a dollar. We're talking about a 3.6% rise now and we're talking a few thousand dollars for taxes. We're talking there's a thousand thousand and a half thousand. for taxes, they're pennies. Let's put this in perspective if we get this. What, then, are we talking about? That is when we are talking about 30,000,440,000. It's just fine. It's not a good idea. It's not supposed to be like this. We have to make sure things are so that we have things like that. From this point on, we're going up for the next centenarians. We're supposed to have the same centennial increases from now on as the ones at the lowest salary and the lowest ton, the lowest. That's what I think we should do. If so, we would be exemplary.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u116	A respectable president. We are here on budgets for 2019, 3rd and last. I'd like to pick up a large number of committee members for more of the budget board, but first of all, I'd like to thank the members of the council I'm involved with for their cooperation and for the work that's been splendid. We've had many visitors, as usual, but I think the Committee has been clean in my opinion. I'd like to start by discussing the order of the advisers and point them to what may be watching, but I don't have all the data in my hands, that there are things on the Internet that can be found under this case, including for the changes made. One of these changes are the Council's order and the transfer of tasks between recruitment agents, i.e. The Ministry of Health is being divided up at the Ministry of Health and Department of Social Affairs, which I believe will be a means of welfare. I think that this Ministry is way too big and too extensive - as noted, it takes into account a large proportion of the budgets - that it is well cared for and given sufficient attention, as to both requirements. Then I'm glad that the equality issues have been transferred to the Ministry of Presidency from the Ministry of Health. This emphasis is on having it this way across all departments, and the Ministry of Maturity is the Board of Coordination of Every Advisor. I think they're going to do a higher level of paint than they already have, and I don't think they're gonna help. Then I'd like to talk a little bit more about the politics found in one of the committee's members at this site. It's just a review of what happened between the 2nd and 3rd. but there is a difference between the two groups. renting property owned by the state. There are some changes that are being made because of the Kingdom's having many Kingdom real estates, including them. to collect rents from citizens who are expected to support and pay real estate bills, insurance, etc. This rent has been much lower than the commercial market in similar facilities, and financial expenses due to housing binding have not been taken into account. What you're up to here is that rent goes up considerably for those people who rent their home at the state property. The average is 900 k. per square meter for approximately 1700 k. but there's some proposals for this to actually come to zero, and the institutions should not have to take it off their management budget, i.e. in addition to existing things. I think it's important that they say it here, so they're being fed up. There are also many other assets that are overseeing Kingdom interests, which take longer to go over. It is, in fact, there. They are talking about the large library of property that is the university, the Landspand, and the rest of the Council's property that will become part of another phase. As I pointed out, a summary of these ups and downs can be seen. 3. Also, there are other transfers and corrections of economic change. I'm going to talk like a lot of others around Iceland. It may be in the packed stream, but I think there is a reason to discuss it, this is a case which was delayed between discussions where a financial committee would like to try to get more information than was available. I want us to keep in mind that it may be difficult to deal with mail services in such a small country of Iceland where there is a lot of distances, difficult transportation, etc. However, it doesn't change that the stitches of this operation have to be done, I think everyone is clear, and most people are at least I agree on that, except to define something other than the worldwide service burden, which I think we know most of. The committee's opinion of one thing is attributed to another, including that it's not just Iceland, it's also in other countries. We're down payment on China's e-mails and the shipments that we buy a lot of times. It's not just us, of course, there are many other countries. It so happens that China is classified as a developing country, as much as it is today, when it comes to postal services, and it takes large amounts of money to pay it down. However, I also find it important to say here in the Commission's opinion that both financial and transport committees need to be made aware of the financial restructuring and implementation of future development arrangements before the sources discussed here become new. I think it's the point of this case. However, I would like to say that when these future economic measures are under way, I feel very important as a local woman, because it is often said that the greatest economy is to reduce the number of units in the scattered areas, that one of these few government jobs that will be left behind in many places will not be taken as well. I think we should keep that in mind. It was a disaster for putting 50 million in the Akureyri Hospital that we put in last year and that we were supposed to have the future on the hospital's operating base. It is presented here and intended to be made permanent by the health minister. Here is also a temporary contribution made to the Power of Faith, and today we saw that the Ministry of Social Affairs has made a two - year contract with it. We're also promoting Public Health Fund, even more than expected in the bill, about 18 million, and I think it's very important. We've talked a lot about prevention in many ways. National Health Fund is aimed at promoting mental health during the next year, children's mental - health projects, activities aimed at healthy diets, sleep and exercise, alcohol, drug and tobacco control, tasks related to sex health and minorities in order to help balance health, etc. There's a lot under there. A respectable president. All right, we're going to put this financial bill on top of the equation. This is important for all because in communities that are equal to one another, people live longer. Children are doing better at school, there is a lower crime rate, and people in general are feeling better. That's why equal society is good for all of us. We also focus on promoting health care and are making Iceland a sexier on climate matters. A respectable president. The financial bill gives evidence that the government is going to keep a promise in the government covenant. Today, we are at the finish line of the budget talk. It is a treasure - making system where we are moving ahead in all things, and it is a pleasure to do so. The increase between years is less than 5%. Tremendous infrastructure of many forms is the theme of these budgets. In two budgets, health and social contributions alone have increased by more than 75 billion. We're building up our education, our transportation system, and, as I said earlier, we have an enormous injection into climates, where we are going to be responsible. It is the same thing everywhere, to increase the equation, knowing that an equation of society is a better society for all. I will not deny, however, that the work is certainly ahead of us, and it is by no means finished. These are budget No. 2 over one year, but these two budgets of this government strengthen the support of the welfare system, promote infrastructure, and improve the environment. I don't get tired of referring to the fact that we, along with so many others, would suggest 40 to 50 billion during the election season, but we've done so much better than in those two budgets in one year. Surely we must rejoice in such an abundance of health care that has been called upon so many times. However, I also realize that we want to see things happen more quickly, since this group of paintings, like many others, has been putting too long behind us and realize that it takes a little time. I find it extremely important that we are actually making the health care providers our first stop in the medical system. That's what changes, for example. in order to have a mental - health team on the health - care team and to offer a multidisciplinary service that will help to relieve the special ministry in time. We are funding a mental - health program, and we place considerable financial support on reducing the cost of a patient's involvement in a special matter of justice and on reaching access to health care regardless of the economy. It's not just justice, it's also a fool's business. According to the World Health Organization, we have one of the most important issues we can face in combating poverty. There are changes in the tax system with increasing personality discounts, and we continue to make the tax system green, which is in line with the government's emphasis on the environment. We raise the rate of annual child reforms by 15% and have increased it by 26% since the government began. The production of obstetrics is rising by 19% per year, with all of this balancedly. We have a lot of success in transportation. The council is fully implementing a transport plan, and hopefully we'll see the results soon. It is important, as we see, that the need is huge, and it realizes that there will be a great deal of work to be done. I hope we can get together to carry out that assignment. As I say, there are a lot of things, much less. For example, we buy new helicopters for the National Guard and expect them to be delivered to the 2022. We are also on the move in the construction of Ásbjörður. Another factor that has been discussed is 100 million in a child culture that is designed to strengthen children for active participation in culture, whether in art, design, or otherwise, in order to hear their voices. We also contribute 400 million. K. a contribution to the publication of Icelandic books, and a great deal of talk in the community about the need to protect English. So I was surprised to learn that here a proposal was made to withdraw this support completely. A respectable president. They're working on the first steps to change the interaction between income tax and reform systems, which are one of the government's policies, which is done in the review of collective agreements. I hope it starts to light up. I have information that's going to happen. Over the head, I think we're putting out a good budget because we have less budget on people, we're raising child support, we're putting health issues first. We are reducing debt as we increase investments in infrastructure and climates, so I believe that this government is second in this year to provide very good financial laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u117	Mr. President. I don't expect anyone here to be surprised that I disagree with the fact that these are wonderful financial laws. I'm not going to review everything I disagreed with each other in a speech. Senator. Still, what moved me to pray for the word was an argument. A senator when she says that the scheme is equal, if I remember correctly. There's so much misjudgment, Mr. President, that's half of it. All the equation devices are malnourished, all the electronic devices that governments have a potential for using are maluseed in the budget bill. So I don't know what it's supposed to be so equal and what kind of guide it is as long as it's cool. A senator would like to say that he's there to make these budgets such an equation of cash. I want to pray. A senator doing well with me. Not only do I need to quote the United States' proposals in this regard, nor do the council members of the United States, but I can read here the report or declarations of the German Union of Iceland, where this is exactly presented, and there is this sentence: Then there is a need for tax suggestions, though the key to demand the increased equation. [...] The change in the tax system is an important step on the road to winding down the huge tax reimbursement that has taken place in recent years in which minimum wage groups have been paid the bill for the nation's richest section. Children's compensation is impaired, so those who are under money don't get any children's benefits. [[The president calls.]] Wax reforms, there's nothing expected there. There's nothing taken into account in the equal role of the tax system. [[The president calls.]] What is it in these budgets that are so uniformly equal?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u118	A respectable president. I wanted to do it. A senator would have listened to my speech, not just to a leading theme. I've done all right over it. It is clear that we do not agree that all of these are used in order to level, not at all. I want, for example. First, when talking about the tax steps, let's say we're taking the step to the edge of the upper level, we're attached to the consumption algorithm according to the lower level. We raised the capital tax. The last words of the law must not be forgotten. We're raising a person's discount, and despite a debate. However, the senator's comment on child - welfare is still increasing the amount of $1.6 billion paid. We're moving the limit, and it must be equal. I'd like to say that too, please. A senator, that everything that he has to say is equal to health care access, equal access to education systems, extra credit costs, of course, these are all equations. No other claim can be made than to be equal measures. We're evening children's access, including. by putting money in a child's culture fund. We're evening out the access of children and everyone by putting money on behalf of Icelandic books, so I just can't say that it's not equation surgery, huh? A senator, when strengthening health care so that people do not have to go to special service or much less because as soon as we have a strong health care provider, who are effective mental - health workers, etc. That, of course, is equal action. We can always debate whether we can put more or less in things. That's a whole different story again. But saying that here the equation devices are not new, I can't disagree more.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u119	Mr. President. The gases used around the world that are important through the tax system and through the improving system. They're not making good use of them. It's totally clear. It may be taking some tiny positive steps in all good things that are useful to a small group, but in the large context, the tax system is not being properly used. Hv. A senator talks about the capital income tax. I want to pray. A senator telling me how much the capital tax is rising, since it is expected to increase much by 2019. You see, it's not a dollar. It is expected that he will drop 2 billion. This decrease, or this increase in fiscal tax, was such a tiny step that it was still the first thing to give 1,400 yous. K. This is the big even step of the night. A senator would like to boast in behalf of the government and the government. It's just funny. When it is said that health care is so great around the country, that good things are being done, and that it would really be a good equation for health care to be fixed all over the country. But I can speak as a citizen of the country that it is not being done in my part of the country or in my district, where clinics and health institutions need a total of over half a billion to survive in 2018, if I take the Southnesian Institute of Health and Health together. This is nothing to boast about. This is a problem that needs to be handled but is not addressed in these laws. This problem isn't being handled. I live in a community of 26,000 people, and health care is not serving the people there. It should be the obligation of the government, which has been guided by the means of making sure that health institutions work all over the country and for all.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u120	Mr. President. Yeah, that's right, the system's supposed to work, as I said before, but it's actually going slowly because the systems were very hungry and wriggled. A senator knows, has sat in the government, and been a minister of finance, that it is not simple to make things work, one, two, and three. [[Up front.]] When the time comes for us to set aside and set priorities, we will. That's wrong. A senator has to contend that there is no increase in money to the health of the health - care professional. In fact, she is saying that this is not a place to promote health care, and she says that her health care is just not caring for the people. I just can't agree with that. You may need to improve and do better. And this is where we're making the money. Of course, they're not working yet. Senator, we haven't agreed to the budget yet. But I'd like to argue that we started making budgets for the present year, and these funds will also lead us to run a much better health system. It will never be that way that it will be perfect, that we know, me and what. Senator. But there has never been so much money spent on one board in these cases as it is now, e.g. shopping for medications or helping to strengthen your mental health or in general health. We're finally starting a new hospital, so... A senator has not mentioned but has been under consideration for many years. To argue that we're not strengthening the system is exactly wrong. Can we do something different? No doubt. And the senator has other ideas than me in it. But that doesn't change it, and I never go down because we're doing a good job. We've got some good money. We have a budget for every infrastructure.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-05-42.u121	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this discussion much, but I see that people are getting tired of it. I still think we're putting some kind of record in being here in the 3rd. The budget, and it's only December 5th. I did well with this budget bill in my talk under 2nd. and can agree with many points presented in the Sermon on the Mount. paritaprevir Although I might now want to see a little more of that rousing in some litigation groups, the Kingdom Hall of Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, who was before me, may now be able to see a little more of that. I take to heart that these are parish laws, and in recent years we have achieved remarkable success in turning over the state's funds. There are many things to thank in this regard, including The fact that we've been holding the government's terms firmly. We've been really busy paying off debts, and it's gonna be really good. But I felt like I couldn't let 3rd pass. feels different from mention of two things. First, I would like to mention what was presented in the hearing of the chairman of the budget committee when he spoke to the committee's opinion. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson, son of Thor, regarding the practicality requirement set out in Ranni. I am deeply grateful for this, and I think it's very important that we make that adjustment. I missed it, and there was no discussion at 2 Timothy 3: 1. Um., and I think it was a mistake, because it's really important that we maintain research and innovation in the country, which is one of the main policies of the present government to do so. And research fund and technology funds are the most important, and they provide a basic source of information. I want to thank you especially for that, I think it's very important. All I have to do is bring up Iceland's issues. I must admit that this is all happening to me, as I think, in fact, anyone who has had to come up with mountains, really hard, and even very boring, I'll let you know. However, for a considerable period of time, Iceland has called attention to what was coming, and I remember that when I come in here to the 2016 Parliament and sit in the state of the environment. A transport committee, that then came to our head of Iceland's e-mail to call attention to the company's situation and had done so before. I don't find it easy to accept here some kind of emergency loan to a company, especially in view of the fact that the company won't be able to pay it back, it takes something else. At the same time, I would not be at all ready to participate in an operation that sent this government into doubt. Of course, it's not that kind of thing. So I agree completely with the views that exist in the greater part of the budget committee, and I have not heard any of the members of the council who have been criticizing it come up with other solutions in this matter. I take my heart to believe that we need to run for the baloney with this company. At the same time, it is absolutely necessary to place these requirements as a majority of the budget committees have entered the Committee's opinion, calling for this information. First and last, I think we're here in this room and in politics, we have a policy on how mail service is meant to exist in the future. We have a bill for the council there. I haven't shared in much discussion about it, Mr. Honorable President, but I think there's something we have to do and cross. Of course, she doesn't go up that way we've been going here in the past few years with an Icelandic e-mail and a certain expansion of that company, without even standing under the services and the company's orders. I find it hard to accept this emergency loan, but I will because I am also no other solution. I'm stressing that we carefully review our vision of the future for the mail service in this country in connection with a discussion about the mail bill and then see where it is heading and what will be the future of this company. I don't think I've got it any further, Mr. Honorable President.
