ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u1	Borist has received a letter from the secretary of state asking for every request to provide a written answer to a petition for this request. 150 on business pressure to Russia, from Karl Gauti Hjaltason. A letter has also been received from the Environment and Resource Minister where request is made to provide a written application for this request. 176, about pollution at a construction site on the Ring Road, from Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Year's Daughter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u2	To answer, Prime Minister, Marine and Agriculture Ministers and Environment and Resource Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u3	Mr. President. The crown falls fast these days, and we know what that means. That means there's something worse in this country. With the Icelandic crown, we cannot escape the tire marks, and the old story repeatedly repeats itself at the expense of the public. Conditions arise, making the inflation grow and the loans rise. The residence situation of the households is getting worse, and businesses are contracting their sails. Except exports, their interests are improving during the low dollar. Sometimes it happens because of external trauma, but usually because governments make mistakes and usually make the same mistakes over and over. Today, the reason for the fall of the crown is the worsening position of tourism and the demand of the unions. Why would the demands of the unions be the way they are? Because the mistake was made to greatly reduce child improvement and housing and to change taxes in the interests of more wealthy people and not to react to the increase in the pay of managers and ours in very large jumps and to avoid handling the housing problems that the market obviously cannot handle. It's the highest. Would not the prime minister agree that the fall of the crown at this time is a result of government economic mismanagement, the heavy decision of a dresser's Council, and that governments have not used the means and measures they have to break the balance?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u4	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir It's a nice Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter for recording this important case, the crown's position. If we look and compare Iceland's post to form with the euro, we will see that in recent years the standard of living and wages in this country have improved much faster than in Euro. Why was that? For one thing, because of the development of a new foundation for the economy, we saw an increase in financial resources far beyond what happened in the euro. The onset of illness follows a considerable period of very strong status of the crown. A senator is here looking for my explanation for this sickness. I don't think there's one monopolitan explanation. It is true that there is a debate about the state of the airlines and the fact that tourism does not grow as fast as before - it is not a recession, but the growth of tourism is less than ever - is certainly playing in there. Hv. A senator named the job market here. Of course, there is certain uncertainty about working position but because of this. A senator mentioned a link between the labour market parties and the instruments that governments have in order to facilitate an equation. A senator as well as I know that that that's exactly what we've been doing. Hv. A senator knows as well as I do the suggestions the government has made in connection with budgets aimed at raising child reforms, which will remember as much about the status of the earning child family, which aims to increase the personality discount of an excess consumer number to support the incomeier family. I think we're gonna do what. A senator agrees that it is important to increase the equation and that the equality of the tax system is one of the roles we have in mind when changing the tax system. But I don't think so, and no doubt there disagrees. A senator, that this issue would be solved by walking in the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u5	Mr. President. V.E.G. The prime minister points out that the sum of a dollar and the interest of the country's population are moving with it, but it is obvious that the actions given on the budget are inadequate. It needs to be done better. Why is the situation of tourism getting worse? Was it not long before such rapid growth and investments would not be sustainable? Thus, warnings and suggestions were given in this hall that could have prevented the present position. Shouldn't governments have taken action long ago, using the devices they have in order to improve their growth and make sure not to place even all the eggs in the same basket? Was it not also economic error that was underlying the fall of the crown at the expense of the public? The crown has stood firm from the beginning with its components for the general population. V.E.G. Prime Minister says that the matter will not be solved by joining the European Union. Then I ask the highest. Prime Minister: How will the government attack the problem without retrieving a new currency? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u6	Mr. President. I must reiterate that growth in tourism service has certainly been a snare, including a quick one. That's why the government tells us some kind of exit or return fees, or what we can call it, in a travel service. Although the growth has been slower than in the past, it means that a balanced approach to the article is being made. Hv. A senator comes to the root of the problem and points to the euro. I think that's when we need to look elsewhere, watch Europe's development and economic developments in Europe where various European countries are dealing with a real problem in the economy, now the last of Italy, which is having a major controversy with the European Commission because of the actions involved in the European Union's implementation and demand for increased government cuts. It has been noted that in the EU, the measures necessary to serve the European states, which are considered in certain border areas, have not been implemented. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u7	A respectable president. I decided to write the speech today so that my minister and I would not get back together again. V.E.G. President. At the best, memory generation gave more than 2 billion dollars. in export income. A great deal of knowledge has been built up, for the last two to three years have been Icelandic. has the highest average global value. Thus, as with other European animal species, at least at the same time, the minority population in Iceland has virtually no disease and no drug use. The article has had difficulties in recent years as a result of global overproduction and thus a reduced price. In recent years, the cost of production has been high. Feeds are about 90% derived from organic waste, resulting in food production that would otherwise have to be planted or burned. 10,000 tons have been replaced with food minas, 10,000 tons that would have to be burnt or waste with the resulting environmental impact. Not to be overlooked is the fact that the article is professional, but dozens of jobs are directed to production. Then farmers have sought ways to use side products, e.g. Some ointments are made from mincing fats. V.E.G. President. My prayer has consulted the government for help in getting out of the temporary difficulties the article faces. For the next two to three weeks, a decision must be made whether to charge animals, i.e. Kill them. So in time, the Memorial prayer will have to make a decision about his business. Thus, many farmers have two or three weeks to decide whether to continue their business or not. Hence, the next few days will depend on whether or not they will continue their operation, with all the resulting loss of knowledge and national preparation. So I ask the highest. Minister: Have some decisions been made to help with that temporary problem? If so, can a minister inform us of key measures? In view of the short time available, when can the implementation of action be expected in case of any occurrence?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u8	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry and admits that he is much more balanced when he is using a written talk, that is good. For this matter, it burns on fur farms. There are 17 or 18 habitats in the country, 150,000 skins in production. Each year, the wave is about 600,650 million each year, with food production at two feeding stations. Heavy in this is in Thomven, then in central South. For some years now, the article has been dealing with extreme difficulties or a falling price on the market. In everyone's eyes, like a what? A senator mentioned, this is a quality product. The problem is, the price of the product does not depend on cost of production and a considerable difference in price per animal, probably at 2,000 to 3000 grams. today. Then the problem is how to strengthen or strengthen the strength of the article. We've had discussions with a fur priest, I and a local minister who's in charge of a graffiti. There the possibility of some form of exposure to the government has been discussed. No decisions have been made about this yet. I have no warrants under my legal system to deal with, and that's what I've made perfectly clear to fur-creatures, if that's the case. But I expect us to make some decisions in the next few weeks. I can't schedule it, a respectable president, there's no such thing. It's been discussed, but no decisions have been made, so I'll answer. A senator straight out.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u9	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for these answers. In the best place was a roll or an export of more than 2 billion in Iceland's memoryskins. A great deal of knowledge has already been established in the country when it comes to this production. There were no predictions, and statistics show that Icelandic hides are among the best in the world. Predictions estimate that 2019, 2020, will be in balance on a global scale. So it is important to cover the gaps at least to the next year so that knowledge will not be lost and to prevent the great impact that it may have if products from the minikin production are not new. It's a pleasure to have the minister say that there is action, I interpret the words of the minister. We have expected action to be near. I reiterate what I said earlier that they have to be here in days or weeks. It is two or three weeks before a man has to make decisions about his business. I hope, a respectable president, that a minister will take the initiative to get the answers that farmers are waiting for in the next two to three weeks, something like that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u10	A respectable president. If I've said there's any action coming, I'd like to have a chance to paraphrase it. I hope we can report something like that. I reiterate that we have not come to any conclusion whether it is possible to react. The case is for discussion, number one, two and three. If so, would it be possible to bridge at any time that the article would be given to restore its feet? You're right. One senator noted that at best this article was extremely powerful and highly concerned, but the number of people who practice it has been very fast in recent years. For example, during the past year, there were five weight - bearing pillars that stopped the fur farm simply because they could not see out of their senses of a business problem. Then there are the 1,518 homes that are discussing the possibility of whether or not to show up in some temporary way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u11	Mr. President. I'd like to discuss a broad defense at the highest level. Prime Minister and chairman of the National Security Council today The occasion is that, at present, the Union's military exercises take place, with the permission of the President Trident Junography, as it is called in English, take place here in Iceland. A press release from the State Department of the United States of America of September 19th. is about the rehearsal, with the permission of a president: It's the best you can do. The main exercise in Norway will be held in the city of Reykjavík. There are about ten warships [...] coming up to the country with up to six thousand sailors. At the same time, there will be so - called winter practice in the Snow Valley, with 400 Marines every day. The announcement also shows that there will be no special attention to environmental exercise. Mr. President. In view of the fact that Iceland has not established the 6th International Convention on Marine Pollution from Ships, and in view of the fact that now ten warships will be docked here on Fonson, I ask if these ships have been guaranteed not to burn black oil like law in Iceland and whether the environmental impacts of the coming of these ships have been evaluated. Then I'd like to ask what caused it to be that the defense budget has so doubled by the year 2016, from 1.1 billion to an estimated 2.1 billion. The budget of 2019. Finally, I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister, because I know that she has spoken for peaceful solutions at the scene of the Atlantic Community, whether it is likely to ensure peace and increase the safety of the Icelanders to house national military exercises that could be considered a direct challenge to the Russian nuclear power.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u12	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for bringing this up. About the first question. Ævarsdóttir Þórhildur'm not aware that such evaluations were conducted or that such military exercises are related. V.E.G. Environment Minister is here in the hall and is better aware of the laws around environmental impact assessments, but such assessments have, in any case, not been conducted. However, we need to consider the occurrence of black oil pollution. There, Iceland has been on the lead in international cooperation to encourage ban on black oil use at sea. That is true of warships as well as other ships. Similarly, we need to engage in a project that is part of the government's electronic climate program. Of course, we can see that, not just from military ships but from other ships, but from the pollution of the ships on the docks is enormous. There's a big effort to get there. I believe that applies to all ships. As for the meal of military exercise, I have to point it to the highest level. Environment Minister. I don't know that these exercises are to be evaluated. Hv. A senator talks about defense contributions. It is known that there has been a great deal of emphasis within the Atlantic Community that all Member States increase their donations for defense. This has been required in recent years. Iceland has increased its resources, but it is estimated that we are far from all other countries of the Atlantic Community when it comes to donations for defense, we are far from all the sums or amounts of the die. Then about a question for why. A senator for peaceful solutions is my time on the run. However, I must say that the planning of this military exercise began before I took over as prime minister. Training isn't something I like about it, because it's a good time. A senator knows of my position and my movement to our presence in the Atlantic Union, but this is certainly part of the Community operation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u13	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. So I'm righting that's why I'm asking about the black oil because the same report from the State Department specifically says that no environmental activity will be done. I think it's a good reason for me to examine the surrounding vessels that might burn black oil. With regard to the activities of the Atlantic Union, I feel that there is a difference between participating in it on a civil basis and hosting military exercise here, but all is well off. However, I wanted to ask you about another event, which is also from the Atlantic Community that has been introduced as the NATO Disarmy Conference and is scheduled for the month. I don't quite understand why they call it a Disarmament Conference in Iceland and why they call it the highest level. Ministers have repeatedly called the conference this way. As far as I'm next, it's NATO's death weapon conference that's being held here. I want to be specific about what we're hosting and what we're participating in. I'd like to consider why such a misunderstanding arose and how the strange translation of the words of Mass Destruction, or a nuclear weapons conference, came into existence, known as a Disarmament Conference in both a press release by the Ministry of Presidency and also in the interviews of the Supreme Ministry. Prime Minister to the media. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u14	Mr. President. In view of what happened. A senator here says that the premise of Iceland's involvement in the Atlantic Community is strictly civilly exclusive. Iceland does not suggest military or military mobilization of its involvement in the Atlantic Union. However, since we are members of the Atlantic Alliance, military exercises have been conducted in Iceland in the past. This is not the first military exercise at the time we've been in the Atlantic Community, and it's not the last one. This exercise is relatively extensive. It is not the largest military exercise ever performed in Iceland. For example, I review the northern tenet of 1993, so we have seen more extensive exercise. What I've been stressing is that the state is the most transparent of all about this exercise. The reason for the environment was specifically discussed is that some of these activities take place in the Valley of the Snow, where there are peace - related areas, and culture. We have emphasized that this practice should not be disturbed or entered a nonviolent territory. That's why this expression is used. Hv. A senator talks about a disarmament conference. Yes, it is intended for weapons of mass destruction. [[The president calls.]] Nuclear disarmament is one of the main points discussed at the last international summit. [[The president calls.]] The nuclear powers at that level have been badly affected. [[The president calls.]] It is to discuss it at the conference as a matter of course. A senator refers to this, but since the conversation has been very slowly, it must be acknowledged. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u15	A respectable president. Yesterday was the day of battle against poverty, a day of extinction of poverty. What was the debate at the Council on that day? None. The only debate that was under the council when I spoke up and gave a Steinarr about the bread and the stones. Still, this battle is not over. Children are still out of school for meals. I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: Is the government's policy on the affairs of poverty? She refuses to see poverty; she refuses to listen to poverty; she refuses to talk about poverty on the day of battle against poverty. There is talk of the weapons of NATO here, but at the same time, there is a dollar in favor of a dollar used as a financial weapon on microchiping the skills they have nothing to do with and do not want. How can this be in harmony with the direction of the left green and with the classes that are with them in a government that all promised, who firmly and continuously promised that they would cancel a crown in return to a dollar? It's been two years since older citizens received a dollar in return to a dollar. When will the government fulfill the promise? First, January 1, 2020. If they can, they may plan to cram a work-by-product assessment into the throat of micropigs, an assessment of performance that they have not received and should only swallow. Please note that many people, most of those who receive a dollar in return, will never have a job assessment. They have nothing to do with this workout. That is why I ask the prime minister: Will she see to it that she will take away a crown from it?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u16	Mr. President. Of course, it is not acceptable to speak here about the fact that the government refuses to talk about poverty, not listening to talk about poverty, not speaking about poverty, not being completely silent about poverty. This is not an acceptable hearing, Mr. President. This is one of the big cases that we often discuss in this hall, not just members of the board, but members of all parties. The members of all classes have been concerned, and I must be quick. According to a senator, there is no need to talk down the discussion of poverty, social justice, and equation, since I have seen no other than that all members of the council have taken action. What is the government suggesting, as I mentioned earlier, in connection with the budget bill now? In order to produce tax changes that are of best benefit to the income, an increase in personality discounts over consumption, an increase in child benefits that will be of utmost importance to the low income of children's families, since this is not the case. A senator mentions children. I agree with what. Senator. The number of children in this poverty - related society is unbearable, so what we are doing is important. A senator should not come here and act like others refuse to talk about poverty. It's not. Hv. A senator then discussed the group he sits in, as far as I know, on the issues of microenergy pensioners who represent members of the Parliament, representatives of the Microcracy Community and Development Funds, representatives of the Ministry and representatives of the labour market. Of course, it is important that we here understand the situation that not all of us have microenergy pensioners who have any chance of earning money in the general labour market. The system we build must not push people into a job market that cannot work because of sickness, disability, or disability. The system we build must not cause us to harm individuals who may not be able to get a job even if they are able to get a job or not to get a job. [[The president calls.]] Of course, it is important that the system we build contributes to the social involvement of people in all social groups and to secure progress, but it is not my business to tread anything into the throat of anyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u17	A respectable president. Those were poor answers from the highest. Prime Minister. What was the debate with the government yesterday, in the day of poverty? Who was she? None. And where is the discussion of a crown against a dollar? It is wrong to talk about a meeting group over reimbursement of social security having something to do with the work programme. The service estimate is a very special version. They were experts who came to that. Desperate workers were not allowed to get anywhere near it. So where's all the talk about not talking about us without us? It wasn't respected. Then there's a big surprise that the Corporate Community won't swallow it. Of course, they refuse to do so; it is distressing to use a financial whip, a cent against a dollar, to force people into something they do not want. I ask: Will the government see to it that, as early as December 1, a quarter of a dollar is canceled so that people in the lowest amount and salary can keep a little Christmas, but don't have to wait for a meal?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u18	Mr. President. In case of a moment. A senator found little answers to these questions, I could say that they were in line with a question. Senator. Here I did the work being done in this group of consultations, and I know about the position of the Qualification Society in these matters. They have made it very clear. I had a meeting with them last night. A senator for information, in which we considered exactly these views that are focused on how we can expand our community involvement in microenergy pensioners, how we can create a population - making system that makes it possible for those who can make money in a public labour market to have that opportunity. That is a personal problem, for there are not necessarily many jobs available. One thing that has been pointed out by the Corporate Community presidents is that this is a much lower percentage of disabled persons in the labour market than anywhere else in Europe. Why is that? Must we not ask ourselves, " Why do our public and public labour markets have developed in such a way that a much lower percentage of disabled people is in the workplace? ' Do we want to change that? Yes, I would like to see a system that will help. That is not to say that people are to be dissuaded. It's not about that. And that is why this group of workers is active to get the views given to the representatives of the Quantum Community have made very clear, both to me and undoubtedly to the Minister of Social Affairs for this group.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u19	Mr. President. A member of the General Assembly gives a report on his work and tips each year to the Generals. Yesterday, there was an open meeting on the board and surveillance committee where an agent presented his report. The agent's job includes, you know, even... to observe how the European Commission enforces the laws set out by the Council in their dealings with citizens, individuals, and businesses. The report can be said to be a guide for the General Assembly to improve the law and suggest a weak spot in the administration. However, the report is not only good for the Council, it is also necessary reading for the Commission, State and Unites and their institutions. In this context, I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister: First of all: Is it not certain that in the Ministry of Presidency and other schemes, it will review the general agent's report when it comes out and identify where improvement is needed for the services of the individual Ministry? If not, the highest. ▪ Prime Minister will promote such procedures? Second, the report by the agent and his comments shows that there is often a delay in answering his errands, as well as that if he so reluctantly goes to answer what might be expected to answer the prayers of his own citizens. So I ask, "Will the highest." ▪ Prefects that an agent's business will be better cared for? Finally, I would like to ask if it is not time for the ministry and institutions to develop a system that informs those who are in charge of government events and their status in the system and when to expect an answer. Similarly, a public overview, a set of scales, of the number of items that are available for payment, payment time, and the like will be published. [[The president calls.]] Very much. Prime Minister will take advantage of this?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u20	Mr. President. Thank you. A member of the council asked a very good question about an important matter. Hv. A senator asks about procedures and I can tell you why. I don't think there's any procedure on the fact that council members are required to study the report of the General agent. On the other hand, I know that many departments do. I've done so, both in my previous profession as Minister of Education and Culture, but also as prime minister, although I don't think there are any such procedure. The procedure has been set out to include a series of priorities and rapid and effective replys from the emissary agent of the Generals. I also singled out an agent's report as well. A senator here noted that it was delayed to respond to issues from an agent at councils and institutions. That's something I think is totally unacceptable and I intend to record. In fact, the view of science also revealed that there are huge numbers of languages and the number of eagles carrying different schemes. I also know this from my previous employment in which the Department of Education and Culture reached thousands of jobs at that time. Sadly, this was so often a delay in answering the issue, simply because of overwork on the staff of the Ministry. On the other hand, I agree with what. A member of the Parliament that the government law is the means by which it should be answered by the Ministry and the institutions. That's an explanation but not an excuse, as the man said. The question is, Can we include a clearer procedure, and it even calls for reviewing the administrative law? I've been looking into my Ministry whether there's no reason to go through the administrative laws in this regard so that there's more to it than that. [[The president calls.]] This is one of the reasons for the urban equality of the administration.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u21	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The prime minister for good answers, who can feel that these matters will be handled more seriously than to the end, I think it is extremely urgent. I'd like to bring up another issue in the case of an agent and his report, which is a release and services to citizens or citizens of this country who have no English language. There's a initiative check, a report, and I don't think I'm exaggerating that an agent has announced a black report on that subject. So I'd like to ask, as I asked. An agent: Is it not time for us to take hold of our service, the release of laws, and the regulations of foreign citizens? The fact is, there are tens of thousands of non - Icelandic citizens here who have difficulty with their rights and responsibilities in their country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u22	Mr. President. I thank you again. A senator for bringing up an issue that we need to face. In fact, there is much more to the reports of an agent that we need to consider on, both by the executive and by the Generals. It's too long to go to it here. You're right, you're right. One senator says that there are a considerable number of people, some 20,000 Polish people, such as the largest immigrant group, and many more groups. We need to decide whether we will try to gather serving together in one place - an excellent proposal from the inside. paritaprevir Kolbe's Proppér Prope, about the immigrant counseling agency, where there may be a way to provide counselling for immigrants and guide them into the system, just as the thought has been in the school, where there have been accepted reception schools - or if we are going to pursue that service everywhere. Working on it in that way may be more important. Thank you. Again, a senator is a solution to how we are going to make sure that these people enjoy the normal service, counseling and rights of this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u23	V.E.G. President. I'm coming up here looking for advice from the highest level. Minister on behalf of my request for a meeting on the job board. That was the case with September 27th. received a report that the recruitment of a new office manager at the Department of Employment, the agricultural Office, and that the office should be united by food and agriculture. Then I asked for a meeting of the employment committees to arrive and agri-environmental ministers and people from the Bavor organisations, and so on. to explain the matter. I've repeated it since, and I've had a poor answer that a minister was going to explain the matter in another field. Similarly, at the same meeting, I have requested that the situation in the raw matter be explained by court.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u24	Mr. President. I had a meeting with him. The job committee this morning, including Yeah. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson came in on this very aspect. I don't necessarily agree with him in any way about where we're going to take planning on the Marine and Agriculture Department, but I think it's important in the long term that we look at it as the Food Ministry, but i ask. However, a senator is perfectly normal. In his own way, I believe he's covering the Generals' role. For example, he requires that a minister be there to inform us of decisions that can have a great impact on both agriculture and the development of the food industry in this country. So I felt sorry to hear that. A minister who is on a certain journey with the case that I'm in most favor with, will not appear before the committee. I'd like to make a strong request. paritaprevir In this regard, the Sigurður of Páll's Jónsson John receive the highest power. Minister for the Committee so we can at least talking about where they're taking this important ministry. That's, in my opinion, the Ministry of the Future for Icelandic food, in the long run.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u25	V.E.G. President. I want to pray to the highest. To use himself in this case, to make sure that the highest possible. Agricultural and marine economist represent the committee and discuss these important matters. It is part of our surveillance role to get a minister to explain his point. We can have many opinions about what the minister is doing. He must appear before the committee. He should explain what he is doing about the Ministry and also what the response is to the big issue of raw meat. It can't be at the top. Ministers don't think it's a big deal, it's not relevant to the council. That's why I'm asking the highest. A president is using himself to explain it to the highest level. The minister to his role is also to appear before the committee, appear before the council members, speak with members of the council, and explain their position there. It has been repeated that a minister would appear to this committee. I'm the highest. A president to use himself in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u26	Mr. President. I was also present at this requested meeting of the professional committee this morning and may be expected to agree with the question. That's my job here. It's kind of bad if you're the best. Ministers begin to refuse the committees to take care of their own role and refuse to attend committee meetings when members call for it. I remember another relatively recent example when it was the highest. The secretary of finance refused to appear before a government and monitoring committee because he felt that he had already explained in the media a few reports to the press and the General. As a result, he did not have to explain it to the council, his Rapporteur. There is something that cannot be written unwritten at the council. I encourage the President to encourage everyone in the highest order. A minister is eager to carry out his duty and attend the meeting of the General Committee. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u27	President's heard what to do. Councilmen have offered this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u28	Mr. President. The economy of each country depends on money policy and government policy, and the third team of successful economic systems are such issues as the work market. These three factors must work together if we are to succeed in maintaining both economic and social stability. As we know, we Icelanders have not always been able to let economic and workforce work together as one unit, but no part can be done without the others. A well - shaped financial policy can contribute to greater prosperity in the country by ensuring stable prices, which can reduce economic rhythms. In contrast, yielding and unsurpassed money policy will increase uncertainty and create the inflation of solidarity. During the 100 years that the Icelanders have had full self-control in money matters, there have been a number of attempts. The population has been in a gold - tax alliance, on a gold row, fixed in seas, in the Britishton Watch's fixed team, tried to achieve financial aims, economic goals, and lands have tried to work with free floating gangs, and since 2009 have been flexible targets with support for capital authors, in fact, the phoned capital capital systems. At the beginning of June, a task force appointed in the past government under the leadership of Dr. Ásgeir Jónsson submitted a review of the framework of money policy, a vast profession. I felt that it was important for that committee to finish her work, so it was important to have a wide range of discussions. Four groups of respected foreign experts were obtained to discuss various aspects of money policy based on Icelandic circumstances. A large conference was followed to introduce the work group report. The report itself was followed by four reports in the Anglo - Saxon language provided by the foreign experts. The report contains an informative summary of the lessons given by the 100 - year history of Icelandic money policy. There, some weeds teach. One of the main results of the staff director, Dr. Ásgeir Jónsson, was that much more important than what game was chosen. Any coin system would have its advantages and flaws. The reason the Icelanders had since their sovereignty generally had instability and/or inflation would not be because they had generally chosen a wrong money policy or have not yet found a suitable policy. This is because they had not followed the rules that the arrangement would have required for economic stability in terms of economic management. As a result, former money policies had broken apart, and the nation had persistent instability in money matters. Although the people of Iceland yearned, as it were, for long periods of time, they did not have the necessary endurance. Another lesson that authors learn is that economic management needs political support. That lesson may not require an explanation. Rather, it is primarily about the involvement of government and money policy. The third lesson, which should not be explained, is the third one, i.e. steadyness in the labour market, which is the basis of prices. In view of the work group, Iceland has two advantages to the Icelandic crown, but it is reasonable to say that the letter given to the group at its time, just in order to be available, was specifically said that the group should be given the basis for the money policy. In view of the work group and from this leaflet, Iceland has two advantages, continuing with the current budget, which includes following an independent policy of money for the signs of an inflation target, and stopping the application of its own money policy and establishing the gangs permanently down with a currency scheme, which includes all the bill of sale being guaranteed by foreign currency. Another advantage is that the task force does not exist. In the near future, it is virtually impossible that the dollar will not remain the currency of Icelanders. The one - sided acceptance of foreign currency is an idea well discussed in the wake of collapse, but I now believe that the board has been completely decommissioned in the US Bank report on currency since 2012. The introduction of euro into the European Union calls for a much wider political decision than for the sole currency. It's about applying again for involvement in the European Union and becoming a member, not just from money policy but, rather, the rest of it. The task force concluded that there is no basis for disaster targets to go up in the country. Price aims highlight transparency and public responsibilities that well fit the rules of a democracies community. In view of the work group, there is no evidence other than that the price targets should be capable of going up here in a comparable way to what has been achieved in the North countries if adequate social reconciliation has been achieved for the game rules of this arrangement. However, the report discusses improvements in the cutter's aims and wants to connect it more closely with financial stability goals. During the last four to five years, there has been considerable success in implementing the cost-exploiting targets of the land in which there has been a decrease in the general interest rate. Similarly, the staff will conclude that currency advice does not arise here. In view of the work group, it is extremely difficult to secure economic stability with a currency scheme that can only be achieved by major system changes within the country, such as at the labour market. At the same time, it is the opinion of the Outfit that a currency adviser has an unacceptable risk for financial stability and that Icelandic financial institutions will remain unrewarded. For this reason, the work force cannot recommend these options for Iceland under existing conditions. The staff got two foreign experts, Frederik Andersen and Lars Jonung, to discuss the possibility of a national currency recording. These associates have generally supported the production of currency advice into smaller economys. They feel that it is difficult to run independent money policy without a history in Iceland and that it is not a political wish for the country to become a currency alliance. In addition, in terms of financial stability, the cost of inflation targets are too risky. Therefore, Andersen and Jonung, and this is suggested in a report by those referred to in the category of work, best for Iceland to adopt currency advice, as was done in several European countries in the 1990's. Other international experts, however, disagree with that conclusion. The conclusion of Patrick Honohans and Athanasios Orphanides is that a fixed structure can be claimed to be suitable for Iceland provided that perfect coordination is achieved between all arms of economic management. Such coordination could ensure adjustment of the economy without the presence of e.g. ... seriousafraid. It is their assessment that it is difficult to rely on such coordination to achieve financial and employment markets so that the economy can deal with disasters that are inevitable in the world's economy. Moreover, the worldwide development of capitals leads to the difficulty and even failure of the economy in defending the attacks of fortune - tellers, even when the State is living in a currency system. The conclusion of Honohan and Orphanides is that in view of how difficult it is to protect yourself against the efforts of fortune - tellers in the currency market and how difficult it can be to defend the level of employment if you can't adapt a line of names, Iceland is not recommended to take on solid policy. Sebastian Edwards also believes that the currency Council of solidity is not a suitable arrangement for Iceland. A number of recent studies have supported the view that countries with float failures are better able to cope with traumas due to altered business sectors. Edwards's research suggests that countries that are exposed to the price of export and import products are more likely to cope with the events of a flotation than those of a fixed population; the long-term consequences of EU economic growth are considerable. The service group finally arranged for Kristina Forbes to review the use of national eco-efficiency for Iceland and present the results in its report. According to the opinion of Forbes, in many ways Iceland is in the long run when it comes to national emissary response. However, it suggests significant changes in the formal economy frame made by the work force to its proposal, which is actually in line with the opinion of other foreign counselors who have previously discussed the matter. Its proposal and its staff are that Iceland's Sidlabanki alone is a responsible servant for the national economist and subspecies and supervises the analysis, decision and application of all national economists. The staff offered a total of 11 suggestions for improving money policy. The first proposal is the one that I mentioned here that the Navy's sole responsibility is to give to national economists and economists and supervises the decision to employ all national economists. The second suggestion is that two vice presidents of the bank will be appointed, and this actually hangs on to some of the previous proposals; one with emphasis on financial status and the other with emphasis on standard money management and that both have a place in a bank government that would multi-organize government. Three committee proposals are to increase the number of external members of the financier committee, which will make the final decision for the application of all national economists. Four proposals are that the government and Iceland's Secret Bank cooperate together to adjust the maintenance of financial stability above the maintenance of prices if these circumstances pose a threat to the above. Five proposals are that inflation targets remain at 2.5% and should be excluded from housing. Six proposals are that Iceland's Secret Bank should take into account the lights of the New Zealand State Bank to provide clear guidelines for decision making and sharing information on the currency. Seven motions are that the influx head should be placed on the custody of the financier committee as part of a national economist, and removed in a step forward manner; in the future, a clear set of rules for when to be applied. There is a suggestion, 8th, that the cow bank should publish the basic growth project on money issues four times a year. Nine motions are the need to increase the responsibilities and support of external members of the financial conference board, to increase the sensitivity of decision making by public release of the panel's votes for interest and that the committee considered a more pronounced long-term growth factor. Ten proposals are that the SERVANT should promote increased education on money policy and the value of inflation targets with the aim of increasing public understanding of existing possibilities and limitations. Eleven proposals are that regular external review of the money policy should be conducted every five years. As soon as this report was published with these 11 proposals, the Ministry Committee began working on economic issues and reorganising the financial system during the evaluation of the group's proposals and possible exports. It was decided that a commission would be set up to prepare a bill to legalize Iceland's Federal Bank, with subsets on individual tasks requiring different expertise and access to institutions. I requested the views of the Bank of Iceland and the SEC on the proposals of this staff that, of course, are relevant to these institutions. The reports of these institutions offer various viewpoints on the suggestions and organization of the work to come. In order to improve the progress ahead, it is important to remember that since failure, there have been a number of experts who want to evaluate money policy, national espionage, and financial surveillance, especially their controls, their interaction, and their control structure. In part, these experts have offered suggestions. I'll give you a few examples. Economic and economic issues have been submitted to the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs. Systems changes have been made on the Management Board of the Federal Bank, with the creation of a money policy committee. The establishment of a financialist and the World Risk Management Committee intended to ensure a better coordination of those involved in this important matter has been changed. Of course, changes in financial monitoring have been very large from common EU-Ecosystems and from high-risk monitoring practices. This change, however, is not completed. In some cases, it is a longer journey. The declaration of the government and the Bank of Iceland is to form unchanged since 2001, despite the change in money policy. A review of the Bank of Iceland's Penitentiary has not been performed despite significant changes in the bank's work environment in proposals for change groups, except for the changes made in 2009. In spite of any recommendations, a law on official financial management has not been revised entirely. The World Bank Fund, which has been monitoring the development of money policy, national economists, and financial monitoring since failure, has made a number of changes, particularly in the management of financial operations. He sent an opinion in September. It says that money policy should continue to have merits as a goal. The fund sees the benefits of uniting up all financial surveillance, long-term loans, and the work of payoffs in Iceland's Secret Bank. It would, in the opinion of the fund, enhance the cohesive effect, prevent unnecessary overlap of projects, better integrate mono-national response, reflect the systematic importance of the Icelandic pension fund, and further support for potential future impacts. The decision now needs to be made on this whole context, and although this report is a key topic in the discussion, we cannot discuss it in just one thing. We also need to consider the previously mentioned indications from previous experts and put this in the overall context. Similarly, we need to look to the reactions that have been reported in both the Federal and the SEC since this report. The Ministry of Economics has provided the following guide for the work ahead, i.e. to maintain the prices goal as the main objective of money policy development and the independence of the Sensitor and his money policy committees to use control tools to achieve it, but to make appropriate changes that strengthen confidence and increased transparency that I believe are of great importance to the implementation of the money policy, that it is understood to all the public, as it is of great importance to the public, and to unite the Federal Bank and the SEC in ways that promote trust and efficiency in the implementation of national law and official surveillance. The main theme of this work is three. Trust is one of the main factors, i.e. changes should be in accordance with established methodologies, increasing the possibility of improved monarchy and national eco-efficiency, improving co-ordination between different aspects of labour management and maintaining and strengthening the credibility of the money policy. Second, transparency. Change should contribute to improved information supply, increasing discussion and knowledge in order to create the best terms of orderliness and financial stability. Third, efficiency: Change should take into account the requirement for PCI and avoid unnecessary double-work, simple channels, and decision-making. Reexamination requires adjustment of the law, including law. to the money policy, to the current National Bank project, to the management board, to change the law of the law on national espionage and financial monitoring laws, changes to the permanent budget of the budget, changes to the government's declaration, and the Sensitors to the merit aims, and changes to the actions of the financial policy committee, and the Sensitors Bank. The management of this project will be in the hands of the Minister of Ministers on the economic issues and the restructuring of the financial system, but the decision made in the media last week was to appoint four people on this project that is led by Benedikt Árnason, economist of the Ministry of Presidency. The task management will work very closely with specialists in different fields, and representatives from Iceland's Federal Bank and Economic Affairs and will return data based on time plan, which may seem unrealistic to many, but it is. It will provide suggestions and bills for the prime minister by the end of February the next. I'm not going to keep my case on the report much further, but I think it's very important that the Council to break these suggestions. It is important that it happens at this point, not only here in the hall, but also in the area of the Economic and Business Committee, where I believe that a considerable discussion has already taken place on the subject of the report. It is important that we create the best terms for the changes that will be made in these institutions in the implementation of money policy so that they can last across classes and governments for a long time. Because it is of utmost importance to the public that these changes are well - founded and beneficial for economic management.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u29	Mr. President. First of all, it's wrong that there are only two possibilities in this situation, i.e. Based on planned or inflation targets. Here I have a diagnostic model from the World Bank Fund that I'm going to discuss more about. I mention it because, despite all that is stated in the report, in box 5, there are only two options in the sense that, on the other hand, we look at a controlled system, where either business is unopposed or that they are taken from time to time, and then some sort of collapse occurs and then they are reassigned. Or the other alternative, that there is some kind of alleged alliance or, at least, a policy in following a larger currency. My question to the highest. Prime Minister is extremely simple. Given that we maintain the current arrangement with an inflation aim, how to justify the highest degree. To the Icelandic nation, prime minister that we become either a permanent instrument or an arrangement that is placed in place at all times when a crash occurs?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u30	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr for the counter. I was here reviewing the findings of the Committee. Hv. A senator makes it clear that he disagrees with this opinion by the committee. I think it's right to keep it up that it's her conclusion to say there's two options. Of course, the choice is not merely between the price targets and the currency council; I hope that I did not say so in my speech, but that I have different money policies with different goals. We know that banks have different national goals. The most common environmental aims have been in this area, but we know it to make up from the U.S. bank that a professional ladder is getting into the money government there. So that is really what you see, the independent policy of money or currency. That was the choices I thought I was going over in my speech earlier. Hv. A senator asks how I can justify my present arrangement. We have discussed making changes to the present arrangement and strengthening the framework of the money policy. In case of a moment. A senator defines the amount of money in use that has been placed in use. A senator may come to his later stand. I don't agree to view a budget that would have been used. I think it's normal for those in charge of the money policy to have some equipment, for example. To prevent growth exchanges, such as those we saw in the process of collapse, where the Belderban tried to use the steering growth device in order to influence the growth trade, which became enormous because of the lack of resources available. If we want to hold onto the benefits of independent money policy, because there is no magic solution, we can say, when it comes to currency, I think it's necessary for a person to take control of the money policy to control it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u31	Mr. President. It's not only me who disagrees with the Commission analysis but also the World Cash Fund, we're clear. Of course, there's a lot of money to control. We're, like, like, we're good at it. talking about 40% related today, which has been described as some kind of money control device but was never intended as a general control device. In fact, it's even been said by the Navy, I think. Now, it's the main thing, and my question was simple, I hope that I get the answer to her this time: There are two choices: either a temporary arrangement, or that we're going into some arrangement where we're bound to another currency in one way or another. That's the only choice, i.e. Sometimes it is called independence, since we are in the middle of something else, or we are bound to another currency. That's the only choice. Each one of them is going to the highest. Prime Minister to Choose? And how justice comes to the highest degree. □ Why is it important to have a clean standing with Jehovah's organization?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u32	Mr. President. It is not a 40% universal volume related, but it is 40% bound to the influx volume. The prime minister, the one here, feels that by independent money policy, money supplies can be used. The population suggests that this use will be reduced and predictable. There's a suggestion that I think we should discuss here. However, the senator asks the choice to bind our currency to another currency. I believe there's convincing evidence against that. In fact, I agree with the 2012 Council Bank, which I quoted earlier, that the options are worth a hundred dollars with a stronger framework of money policy, or entrance into the European Union, and recording euro. I believe that the currency scheme, i.e. to bind the currency to another currency, to bring all too much risk. If we look at the experiences of where this has been tried and where it has been done, the situation in Iceland has been very different. We can use Estonia as an example that presents quite another situation in the workplace, a whole different economic system, now predominantly in foreign lands at that time. [[The president calls.]] We're talking about a problem loaner who falls in that way. I think there's too much harm in that arrangement.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u33	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the talk. She described it well, as the report says. But I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister whether she agrees with me in that this fine working group has been too limited. The result is a continuing course for the past few years, with its own money policy and Icelandic dollar. Tells you the highest. Prime Minister that the ideas and suggestions mentioned in the report will contribute to a better interest in homes and businesses in the country, so that money policy will improve and be comparable to neighboring countries? Of course, the main objective of economic management in the country should be to improve the interests of the public, right? But money policy is a major part of the economy, so it should move in the same direction. The root of the problem is my opinion, and not just my opinion, but a lot of dollars itself, and this little currency that swings by the slightest movements, either within the country or outside. I also want to ask the highest. Prime Minister if it considers the European Union to be involved in a currency problem and that the record of euro has caused economic problems, e.g. correspondent in Italy, Portugal, or Spain Because I understood the highest. Prior to today, prime minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u34	Mr. President. I don't think there's a dollar above criticism or any other currency. I'm sorry that this discussion has so much to do with some foxholes that are trying to make things great there and impossible here and vice versa. Hv. A senator asks: " Was the committee too tight? It was reserved by the former government, by an independent class, by a bright future, and by a restoration to a government community. Was it too tight? I won't tell you. We have a good report from the 2012 Federal Bank, which covered the stage in a much larger way, we can say. I believe, however, that the results of this report can be very helpful in molding a stronger money policy frame. That was why I felt right, even though I did not come to set up this committee, that she would finish her job because I thought it might matter to us. Hv. A senator named the euro here. After a collapse, Iceland's crisis was a major problem of currency. Many were claimed to do so. I believe everything that's happened since then shows us that it wasn't. There's been more to banking than there is in Iceland. The crown proved to have advantages and flaws in the collapse, and the euro proved to have benefits and defects in the collapse. If we look for a picture of what one of our favorite economists is. A senator, Thomas Piketty, has written about these matters, is exactly his criticism of the euro because it was too difficult to establish the European currency area. It has established a common currency for many countries without providing a common fiscal policy and a common tax policy that would be needed to ensure strong foundations for the euro as currency in countries as different as in reality. I thought it was the question that the European Union and the euro should be dealing with now, i.e. how to ensure increased media management and coordination in the management of financial and financial matters in the euro. [[The president calls.]] I think the arrangement revealed, and sammála with Piketty about that, that there are also certain defects in the euro arrangement. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u35	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The prime minister's answer, but in the process he would like less, that the financial crisis was indeed international. But on top of our problems here in Iceland, and that's why our problem was so great, was a depositor. About half of the reason for the public's election went down here after a collapse was the Icelandic kroner. That's a fact, and I hope to the highest. The prime minister will be as good as I am that we were dealing with the crisis after a crash. Earlier today, the highest spoke. Prime Minister in Italy I understood it so that she believed Italy had a money problem. But it's wrong. Italy has a serious debt problem. I want to reiterate my question: Minister that the European Union's problem is inexpensive? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u36	Mr. President. I believe the European Union's problem is economic hardship. I think a currency is nothing more than a new one, a new one. That's how I've understood at least the ten years I've spent in Congress. Because of what? A senator asks me if I don't remember what happened in the collapse, I remember it very well. I've watched very carefully what has happened in Iceland since collapse. That's right, there was a sharp collapse in Iceland and it was very difficult for all the public in this country. But thanks to that, we've also achieved an amazing financial advantage. A senator and others, and then we can discuss what would be important in their recovery. Would that recovery have been as fast in the euro? We see a specific economic government in the euro that has not been as successful as some would like to be. That's just normal, because we're supposed to debate economic control. There's no magic solution for management or currency. Unfortunately, there's always talk that there's a magic solution, that it's just gonna have to change the currency, and then everything will be all right. [[The president calls.]] It's about a lot more complex than that. [[The president calls.]] That's why I say, "I believe that the euro, because of what." A senator asks about it, has a problem that involves an inadequate medium control of the currency. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u37	President. Thank you very much. The prime minister's excellent review of this report. I agree with her, of course, there's no magic solutions in this any more than there are. But our experience with independent money policy over a century is boring, as this report so well shows. In the twenty-two decades of inflation, we have an average of more than 4%, approximately 2.5 percent higher on average than in the rest of the North countries, and we have an average interest level of over this period of almost 5% higher than in our neighboring countries. It is the cost of home and company exposure, and this growth difference is still that although we feel that we have achieved a temporary struggle with inflation, which is, in fact, wiping out very quickly now when the dollar is started to get sick again, which it does so well, it falls. This brings us to the highest point. Prime Minister comes in and is one of the key lessons drawn by the authors of the report, i.e. political support for money policy. It is true that this report was too tight. Of course, she should have taken the euro too, but there was no political agreement in this government. But we have the bank account as reference. That is why my first question to Prime Minister is: Would it not be normal to ensure political support for the policy we are now contributing to the money sector, that the council take this issue into consideration, not a group of government officials? That the council is now assigned to examine all our options for money policy, including the euro? Because it is obvious that the cost of society is estimated here at hundreds of billions a year from the interest of one we bear from the crown. We in this hall must look for all the ways to lower it for homes and businesses in the country. That's why I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: Would it not be reasonable to have the council on the subject immediately? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u38	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for that answer. As mentioned in my case, the report is based on the letter of communication that was published. Hv. A senator expresses his view that the field should be covered by others. The report was returned to me as prime minister, and as an executive director, I follow it in my field. I will, and I have proclaimed changes in the law on the Secret Bank and will continue to do that work. I believe, though, that this matter should always be taken up by the Allied Parliament. This does not require the Commission's permission. There are substantial data and reports. I also referred to the 2012 UN Bank report, but we have received a number of foreign experts who have come to affairs after a crash, suggested and made suggestions on how we can better strengthen the framework of money policy. I'd think it would be a good idea that the General Economic and Business Committee would be organized to review them with counseling and taking their stand, even considering whether they would bring their own opinion into this work. I'd be glad to say that I believe that the Allied can take any matter and set up. It would be beneficial for the European Commission to have Generalis's opinion of the matter. If we look at it as slow as possible. A senator also mentioned, i.e. The report of the World Bank, which provided these two options, on the one hand, in another frame, we can say about the money policy, and on the other hand, entry into the European Union and recording Euro, is my opinion that the second choice is not about money policy. It's about a lot of other things that are far more of a community than just money policy. It is best, however, if the council reexamines this report and even examines whether any continued work can be done on the basis of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u39	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The answer is made by the prime minister. Of course, this material does not have any limitations, it can look at any options it chooses to look at. In many other cases, we have resorted to parapolitic cooperation and consultation with less cause than this, and in many other cases this government has repeated it. Of course, it is disappointing that there is no attempt to acquire any parapolitic support in the way selected but, on the contrary, the government describes it, before once the debate in this hall, to continue the inflation goals with the tragic results it has brought us to this point. Perhaps there is something else to mention and an important lesson to learn. It has to do with the principle and political support of the money policy, that is, the financial situation that is repeatedly pointed out to be in support of the money policy, while the policy of this government goes contrary to any sense of wisdom in money policy under the circumstances that we are in today. It is the very objective and policy of this government to violate these same guidelines that are spoken of as being so important to respect. [[The president calls.]] The government's affairs here are another journey to fuel when they should at least be neutral. [[The president calls.]] That's why I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: Would it not be a good first step to start applying the rules?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u40	Mr. President. I reiterate what I said that if you will, I welcome the attendance of the council to this discussion. But I don't remember. A senator assumes that this journey began in his time in government. It was the decision of the then government to do this, to bring in three experts, and not to make cross - political consultations. In fact, I do not recall that there was as much cross-cutting consultation in the history of any government as there is now. But as I say, I'm always glad to have a conversation with the council and that the council has as much discussion as possible on these matters. On the other hand, I must say--first whisk. One senator says: We see here the disastrous consequences of a 100 - year money policy - that is correct. There's been a lot of problems. But where does Iceland stand as we examine international standard of living, prosperity, and quality of life? When we look at those standards, is that not a little high? Is this the disastrous result of money policy? I think we have to face the fact that this is not a black and white picture. [[The president calls.]] I don't think there's anything tragic that can be said in either the euro or the county, but we should try to talk it over the benefits and flaws. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u41	Mr. President. To be honest, I was surprised when the then Minister on Economic Affairs assigned a team to reevaluate Iceland in March 2017. Not only because of the narrow framework within which the Committee was to work but also because in September 2012, the Navy had published very detailed publications on Iceland's options in currency and gangs. The objective was that the publication would be the basis for a serious discussion on the subject and would help governments and the public to take an informed stand on the purpose of the nation's currency. This extensive publication, produced by a number of bank experts, is contained in 25 meaningful chapters. One chapter discusses the experience of the Icelanders of independent money policy and flexible gangs and points out that, compared with the experiences of other nations with a money policy with a formal inflation aim, the experience of Iceland is slacking. Inflation has long been high in this country and far above its target. In fact, the history of money policy and currency in Iceland seems to be brilled from the beginning, regardless of how the gang policy and money policy has been implemented. The Society's publication contains the leading reasons for the smooth successes. We are vulnerable to international fluctuations at food and raw products. The lack of domestic production and export is making specialisation more unstable, and national development is more unstable than in other larger economic systems. Thus, money management is likely to be more difficult here than in more economic systems where job structure is more stable. The report we discuss here also describes the situation. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ Iceland has many characteristics that make it difficult for money management to cope with. The economy is tiny. Export work is monotonous and fluctuated. In the majority of financial markets, only a limited number of sellers dominate the prices. Not only is the memory system small but it is in the middle of two of the world's largest currency areas, [U.S. dollars] and euro, which must make the independent financial management of an extremely difficult subject. Gang movement and the currency market have since proved to be a rodeo. The traditional growth process from seven days' direct growth into the growth industry also seems very limited - which still limits the scope of money policy. The Society's publications also ask whether the money policy and economic management in this country were sufficiently good. The answer is no. The money policy and the government have not pulled the economy in the same direction, and the results have likewise been poor. Instead of reducing the growth of budgets, poor time - fixing taxes, high investments decided by public citizens, and a fundamental change in the housing system. The authors of the report we're discussing here, the future of Icelandic money policy - reevaluation of the framework of money policy, do not give the economy a high grade either. As far as the economic regime, most of which have been in the hands of the independents, can be seen, both reports give a drop score. The role of economic management should be to maximise the general economic well-being of the public. Since money policy is an important part of economic management, it is only natural that its objective is also to maximise the general economic well - being of the public. At the beginning of my talk, I said that I was surprised by the request, but I am also surprised by the limitations of the report. It may not be to authors to blame them. Rather, they were supposed to assume that the dollar will continue to be the currency of Icelanders, that there are only two factors: the continuation of the last year's course of independence in the Secret Bank of Money or that there will be another currency for currency purposes. And currency tips are thrown off the board of the report and, indeed, also in the National Bank report. By the currency of the government, it obligates itself to replace domestic currency with the stifling currency payer with a predetermined gang, and commitment is also bound in a law to increase its credibility. To meet these requirements, currency advice must be built up a currency reserve sufficient for such insurrection to be guaranteed. Since the cost of a currency body is high and the cost of turning aside from the success goal in the same way is high, the office of currency usually means more confidence in the target than in other gangl connection. In addition, much currency would have to be kept to support the gang connection. It would also have to be high enough to allow financial support to be possible, to land financial funds, at least for the sake of financial resources. While most of them are in domestic property. In this respect the need for a large currency reserve, and so much currency is an expensive provision. Finally, it is urgent that there is widespread political support for carrying the short - term cost that can be of any kind of success. It may be a good alternative when things are going well, but if things are not working well, then the currency reserve needs to be financed, for example. to cut into welfare services. Although the crown's fixation with another currency, whether with a simple statement by the government or a currency, may seem to sound, experience has shown that in many places most of where such measures have been used, governments have been forced away from such measures. Such a connection is of value only if it supports a state bound by the coin. The examples of successful success are already in place, e.g. countries intend to adopt euro. Then their coin is tied in the euro in this process supported by the European Bank of Banks. With a currency scheme connected euro, without being en route to the European Union, the currency union is very risky. So I agree with the press that this option is out of the question. If so, you will only have the option to keep the crown, but you will create a better frame than you now have. The idea is to do another experiment with the crown, although it is long realized that it will never work to run a small amount of independent coins except at high cost to the public. So let's stop and go a more cheap way, which is to finish the contract with the European Union and then pick up the euro. Can anyone answer the question of what Iceland has gained from not completing the European Union, which was right at the end of the season, leaving the biggest issues of opinion uncertain? Obviously, the public didn't make any money. However, opposers may still claim that our membership would be adverse, even though they really do not know about it. No one had to fear a bad deal, for of course a bad deal had been taken in a national law. Why should we throw up the crown and pick up Euro? In a chapter entitled What currency? The Secret Bank on Iceland's choice of currency and gangs says in a chapter entitled What currency? ,with permission of the president: It is difficult to approach the selection based on the goal of minimising the costs of doing business with other countries and to minimise gang swings with other currency. Therefore, from this point of view, looking to the extent of business dealings with the smaller areas to be considered, which, in the long run, can affect the relationship of the national economy and the economic fluctuation in the region. It also matters how large the area is and how often it is connected to other countries. The improvement in the form of stable gangs, therefore, will be greater than that of other currency sources connected to the area. How much the relevant currency is used in the implementation of the nation's international business and how the composition of the nation's foreign debt may also be important. Finally, it is important for the currency to be solid, so that the money anchor is in the coin area. In view of all of these factors, a connection seems to be made to the euro the most obvious option, one of which is decided to connect or record the gangs of the crown with another currency. The European region is much the most heavily weighed in the foreign trade of the nation and its foreign debt, with the U.S. dollars as well as its foreign businesses. The European region is also the second largest coin field in the world after that. This is linked with additional restrictions on the euro, because many other countries do the same, or they try to slow it down. However, the link between the national economy and the European economy is limited. However, the results of the studies indicate that such relationships are consistent with the involvement of the coin union. Mr. President. The benefits of membership in the European Union include increasing international exchanges and the higher national income on a person, the access to a large financial market without a benefit and the lower population income on a person, the size of a money economy and more competitiveness that is sorely lacking in the country, a fixed priority for the economy as well as a financial fee from the European Bank, if necessary, and, Mr. President: Within the EU is not a currency crisis. Some now say, " Yes, but the dollar saved the Icelanders in the crash. ' In this context, I want to remind you that this rescue mission meant that the company's problems were very concerned with the public, in contrast with what happened in other countries where employment was committed to the problem. A decrease in the ravine gangs resulted in an increase in the index price of consumers, which, in turn, raised the mortgage's loans and was a specialised phenomenon. In other lands, people had problems with housing loans because of loss of employment, but this problem also added to Icelandic homes'problems during the crisis. Some would say that we have to deal with the problem today and cannot wait for the process to end in the European Union. That's right. Some of the suggestions in the report that we will discuss here are relevant to strengthening the client's contribution. But we'll never make it to the end if we don't start the trip. We need to recommence the negotiation process, finish the contract, and carry it under the nation. According to the recent Gallup survey for Iceland, a considerable number of Icelanders want to record euro than they do on their dollar, as the cost of the dollar is too taxing for their homes in the country. Let us be wise, for it is less expensive.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u42	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for her speech. This gave us a clear view of why. A senator and her prospective party to the Conspiracy Reject the Cential Council, which I made as a subject of my speech. I agree with what. That's what a senator does. But I would like to ask. A senator for her comments about how she thinks it's the best way to Iceland - she said that the crisis had not been pondered into the public in the euro, but I don't know if the people in Greece are. I'll agree with that. A senator on this, he was very at odds with the European Commission through that crisis - whether it agrees with the need to deal with the economic problems in the euro, that the euro needs to be changed. And not to survive, whether it's not obvious--and I quoted earlier in Thomas Piketty--to agree not only with money policy but also with government policy and tax policy in the euro. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u43	Mr. President. Now it's got the highest. The prime minister did not listen properly to my speech, for I did not say that the people in Europe did not have a problem. But he was different. He was primarily out of work. He wasn't about a currency crisis like he was in this country. True, there were problems with Europe's crisis, we all know it, but in addition to the general public, these special circumstances, a weak crown, had to be faced. That's what I would have thought was an obvious thing. Of course, with the currency above the head, it is important for the euro that all the nations act in such a way that the currency is not swinging and that the nations do not have a financial problem. [[The president calls.]] Whether it's supposed to be with some federal rule, which I think is the highest. Prime Minister is looking for - I think it can be done together with the Member States without the euro becoming a big country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u44	The speaker reminds the speakers to give a talk, or the bell will start, and this will damage those sitting at home.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u45	Mr. President. In this discussion, there is a problem with speech times. Perhaps it would have been better to negotiate a talk period. I mention it to Mr. President. I'd like to say what. Senator I agree with you. A senator that does not need to call for one state in Europe. That's not my opinion. But what I'm really looking at in my counter-controversity is the opposite. A senator does not agree that there was an economic problem in the euro that affected the public's standard of living. Is it not necessary for countries to work better together when it comes to basic factors of the economy, such as government and taxes? Is it not also a matter of particular concern that in the European Union's discussion of the economic problems in which it is easy for governments in the European Union to always refer the European Bank as responsible, to the European Bank, and to avoid handling the problems at home? Because here we are, of course, the economic problems we've seen in the euro.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u46	The president would like to remind you that if you negotiate for a talk period, there are no such answers as these. That exchange does not take place. That's when an counter will be answered for the second time. 6th. The District of Oddny G. Hardydóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u47	Mr. President. I'll try to respect the lesson, but it's hard when you have one minute to answer huge questions. I think the European money bank is a very important sponsor for the euro, that's just the way it is. It would not be futile for us to have such a sponsor with a currency that we were working with. I would like to relate a recent study of the European Union, where the countries of the coin area and the European Union were asked how they liked being in the European Union. It reveals that the countries have never been so positive about the European Union, including countries that have been in trouble, 85% Ira, Malta, and even the Greeks say, "We want to be in the European Union because it's a good idea.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u48	Mr. President. I listened attentively to a talk. Senator. Hv. A senator is not the only one who sees the defects of the arrangement in which we live, and we are in some respects guessing a narrow cut. I want to know what I'm thinking. To see if it will change her view of what she is discussing here and of course have done before, i.e. the potential for walking in the European Union and recording the euro, the current European problems, the much of which are stirred. We know Bfenit, we know the way the European Union treats the British in situations where efforts are made to make them all wrong. And we also know the attitude and treatment of Greece when Greece was in trouble. Is that what it's all about? A senator, an application site for us?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u49	Mr. President. Yes, I'm convinced that this is a very desirable setting for us, for the public in the country and for improving the company's terms and environment. All we need is to watch the Baltrexit and the difficulty of the British people who both want to hold and escape. They want to maintain the benefits of being in an economic alliance and when they learned what the situation would be like when they left the European Union, everything went into trouble and trouble. The study published in the European Parliament yesterday on public opinion in the European Union provides a clear conclusion that the public believes that there is a better payment within the European Community. That should guide us and give us reason to look into matters further.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u50	Mr. President. Just take a closer look. I have to say, it's very interesting to see how the European Union seeks to make the British all the way to trouble. Of course, a message is being sent out to those who would allow themselves to think about leaving this scene. I allow me to return to the way the Greeks were almost stripped of their sovereignty and independence because they found their way into an economic problem. It's a natural disaster story, and I just let myself witness to the poet: 'And since they crucified you, Kristur, what do they do with a bum like me?'
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u51	Mr. President. Of course, the Greeks had economic problems. When we look at our professional life, and the most trusted industry, it was the economy around the tourism industry in Greece, which, in turn, caused problems. However, they did not intend to replace the euro with their currency. [[Foreground on: Yes, yes.]] - They didn't. They did not do so because they considered their interests to be better off not doing so. In this survey, which I encourage. Senators to review and publish yesterday at the European Parliament, the Greeks are quite pleased with their presence in the European Union and their present situation, but they were truly in a bad position, I don't intend to minimize it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u52	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A new Oddný Harðardóttir for her speech. She talked a lot about the situation in the European Union in the European Union and the limitations of the report and more. I'd like to ask you what. A senator will see how she feels about the suggestions presented in the report. I'd like to ask in the first round specifically about Proposition 3, about the growth of external members of the financial policy committee, and in the context of that of Proposition 9, for increased support to these external members. Because it would likely increase the level of activity and improve the foundation of the money policy committee. Also, I'd like to go inside a bit. A senator, after her opinion of proposals 10 and 11, on the other hand, on the other hand, of the regular review of the money policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u53	Mr. President. Here I have a problem because I forgot the magazine downstairs, since I had made comments on every suggestion. But I'll try to remember it. In short, I find suggestions by the group and suggestions in the report a number of practical ways to strengthen the box around the crown. I'm not that critical of those suggestions. What I am critical of is the narrow and narrow range of jobs they were assigned to work inside and that it was at the disposal point for the crown to be used. In that light, these suggestions are understandable. And a lot of people I think can do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u54	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. At least we agree on that. In many respects these suggestions are excellent, and as a matter of course. A senator said; as far as they can reach it. The Senator traced difficult economic management and how difficult it would have been for us to overcome this economic independence that we still have. However, the report specifically indicates that it is important to comply with rules, that is important, no matter what currency we have or whatever government we have, to comply with rules. I'd like to know if the Senator doesn't agree with me on that. On the other hand, I would like to hear from the senator what she thinks of other national economic devices, but perhaps exactly what is being said there. Could they be applied to a greater degree? Then I mean, like a contract with a labour market party, a government contract and a labour market party, etc. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u55	Mr. President. Yes, indeed, for a number of times in this hall, I have discussed how we should use the equipment we can to increase the balance in our community. It will improve the economy. Clearly, this is what the government should do. I've forgotten the first question, I was so happy to have this question, because I've talked about it so many times, that we should take all the tools we have in the toolbox as public members, rural communities, and governments in order to increase the equation in society. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] It will improve the benefit of all, not just the worst, but the quality of those who are good.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u56	A respectable president. Now I happen to agree most of the way I do. A senator went over, saying that the euro is one of our possibilities and that there may be a currency problem. And as well as the current cost-to-inflation strategy for liquid gangs, there is no solution at all. But I am so interested in trying to uninvolve these issues about whether to enter the European Union, from a financial debate. That's why I'd like to ask him why. A member of the council to see if there are any other ways in this case, e.g. The ways that Denmark and Croatia and Czech Republic and Serbia and other countries have taken. These include either inflation goals, but by some sort of stability arrangement, or some sort of binding, either loose or crawling. Is it to be considered? A senator who tried to fix what may be fixed or can be fixed in the crown without having to go into political debates? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u57	Mr. President. I just have to say no. It's just that way. When people say they don't want to go to the European Union - but we're in the EEA. What are we doing here? Every other assembly case we're working with in the Hall of Congress is created elsewhere than in this country. We've signed a contract to be in the European Economic Area. What we have to do is negotiate the twenty-five percent, take credit, and then sign up for the nation. If he's good, the people will agree. Then we'll apply for entry into the currency alliance. During this discussion, many talk about Denmark. Denmark is in the European Union and is still in this currency scheme and has a sponsor because it is in the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u58	Mr. President. Yes, it is quite possible to go that way. But that doesn't change it that even if we had a government that didn't stand in the way we went, it would take years to complete this, at least three, four, perhaps up to ten years to enter the currency alliance. And then there is reason to ask: Why don't we protect ourselves from some kind of tragedy in the meantime by having a better arrangement? For example, to have a fixed link to euro moving around, such as Croatia, before entering the European Union in order to stay calm? In fact, more countries have taken similar steps. I think it's important that we fix the dollar because it's a piece of shit today. But we will not be able to record euro in an instant. That's why I'm looking for solutions in the meantime.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u59	Mr. President. If we are en route to the European Union, we have decided to take that step, we can have some kind of currency in the meantime. But if we're not going there and we don't have a sponsor like the European Bank, we shouldn't take that risk. To me, there are only two factors. This may be because I have read the long report of the Federal Bank. Either we keep the crown and try to aim our economic government on it and the box around it, and we deal with the costs that are inevitable, driving so small a coin, or making the wise decision to join the European Union and to be in a currency union with 500 million people.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u60	Mr. President. To begin with, it is interesting to consider the authors of this new report that cost another tens of millions and their former jobs. Whether these are the right members to give counsel to the state, it is now a different story. At the very least, these days, the government reports do not appear to be different from a class of independent, former minister, or ideologies as either authors or co - authors. Then you might ask, " Did most of the report not really have been unnecessary, considering the history of Icelandic money policy? ' It's a fine thing for college students, but I wonder if the government fund should pay for it. In 2015 a judicial committee returned a review of the law on the Federal Bank. The committee was organized by financial and economic ministers. I must say that this report is better than this, both in the material and in the suggestions. The money policy committee, or staff, contributes to a broad change in the role of the National Bank. So I ask, has this new report been compared with the report on a change in the regulations of the 2015 National Bank? I'd appreciate it if it was the highest. The prime minister could answer that question and how the suggestions in the new report harmonize with what it says, what is in agreement, and what is a variation from the previous proposal. Especially do I rejoice that the staff take the basic stand that housing prices should not be at home in the Pentateuch's inflation target, as suggested in the report 5. In the United States, largely over the past six years, the staff of an index price has maintained inflation and has raised a considerable amount of inflation on the loans of the households. The central category has fought for the removal of the housing team from the index price of consumers and has moved the category, including The bill of the subject at the last council that the government groups tried to prevent votes and then finally set off at the Senate Hall. Hopefully, this reasonable position by the Outfit will be that the government is now opening its eyes on this important matter and following the proposal. This results in the failure of the bank to use the steering growth device as excessive as it has. The central category has been struggling hard to make clear that countries at the bank's promotions and is the class of people who feel that in many cases they were unnecessary. I don't know what else to do. A member of the Party, the Þorstein of Sæmundsson, keep it well up. The report contains two suggestions that depend on the specific application of the Management Board at the National Bank, suggestions 6 and 7. Suggested 6 points to the importance of creating specific rules on the Secret Bank currency and the New Zealand Bank on these topics. I agree with that. It is important to have clear regulations in these materials, both to the market and to the general population. The money exchange decisions so far have been marked by opacity and decisions in the back rooms of the National Bank. You need to know what the bank is thinking when it comes to currency. Opacity made it more difficult for a market citizen to evaluate what is up for the bank, especially if he wants to send a message into the market and play on expectations or if he is really ready to try to keep the gang going by hand. It also remains unclear how much money the bonds bank is willing to stake on to support the dollar, how regularly, what price range is normal in currency, whether or not he considers the dollar too weak relative to basic factors, and whether the flow is actually temporary, etc. The actions of the pension bank should not be wrapped up in the hidden surface they have been. So in general, I think this proposal is designed to give us a better expectations for the currency market. The second suggestion in the use of the Sea Bank Management Board, or suggestion 7, would have a significant effect on the situation today. It is suggested that the influx head be placed on the custody of the financier committee as part of a national economist and taken step by step. When it comes to the future, there are clear rules about when it is used. If this proposal was introduced, it would mean that the special head on the influx of capital, introduced in June 2016 to prevent the development of the growing exchange could lead to the building of systematic risks in the country, as with the formation of the snow-engineering device called after the collapse of the bank. As the oceans are used today, foreign investors have to bind 40% of what they have brought into the country to purchase in written bonds, exchanges in dollars, as well as high-growing profits in budgets, at 0% interest rates for one year. This proposal is somewhat radical in my opinion and in view of the uncertainty ahead in the economy not only here on the country but also abroad, as in the stock market. The World Cash Fund is of the opinion that there is weak evidence for the persistent application of the Influx Sea. The sea has strongly suggested that 40% of its duties be removed. They believe that circumstances do not exist that call for the bait of the sea. I think this attitude of the fund is a little special because we know how difficult the so - called snowbolt was to us. Surely, we do not want to see them through trouble again. Even if the growth gap in foreign lands has diminished, we should not forget that we have very poor experience in the growth trade. Furthermore, because of commitment, the amount of money that would affect exports, such as seabeds and tourism, could grow considerably. The report discusses three conditions to be looked at before using the influx seas. It is in itself good to have such a standard. I believe, however, that when it comes to detoxification of the Influx Seas, we must go to the ground in small steps, but we may have clear rules about when such oceans should be applied. Mr. President. On page 18. 168 of the report is an interesting introduction to the influx head set up in Chile in 1991-1998, especially in connection with the lifetime of bond bonds, i.e. The binding decreased as the life span of bonds increased. This is an interesting and reasonable way, if a word can be used in this context. So the question is, could this approach be a pattern for the first steps in the discharge of the influx seas in this country? The report says that one of the advisers of the staff, Sebastian Edwards, is from Chile and has arrived at the capital of that country. I would like to commend the generals for seeking out experienced men on these topics. Four suggestions are given in the report to the decision-making committee. I would like to pause only on Proposition 10, which is suggested to promote increased education on money policy and the value of inflation targets. The aim is to enhance the understanding of the current possibilities and limitations and to help improve policy reconciliation. That proposal is important to me. How important it is to increase understanding of the public in these areas and especially to make more peace! But we know that the decisions made by the money - dating committee are not always the most popular. I agree with what the staff say about the Secret Bank educational role, that the bank has not done it properly, either with regard to the money policy in general or with the role of the Secret Bank. The bank needs to be modernly taught, to make simple videos to explain money policy, to share information interestingly on its website, and to make educational material for core and high school. It's quite remarkable that it takes an entire group to open the hands of the Directors of the Huns Bank to that fact. It is necessary, Mr. President, to make this important case party, which is on the bank's bank's probe understandable and interesting to the public. The second bank is supposed to be transparent, open, and interesting. I'm glad to hear it. In his earlier talk, the prime minister agreeed. Suggestion 9 allows for increasing transparency to the Commission decision making on a money policy committee and for the votes of the committees on interest resolution to be published publicly. It's fine as far as it goes. In this regard, the decision to make is most important. By doing so, we can gain a better sense of what is going on with a decision to make. It matters. I support the motion of the group that members of the Committee have a different background and that one of the committees comes from a professional level. The broad background of the committee is designed to minimize the uniform opinions of the committee. The 2015 report provides a suggestion for the arrangements of the banking board as well as a staff report on money policy. The new report assumes that two vice presidents will be appointed. Thus, there will be an increase in the number of them alone. It would have been nice to have an analysis of these two suggestions and what the government intends to suggest in these areas and why. I'd like to finally mention only the union between the FDA and the Secret Bank. That unity, as we know, has long been to the point of view. I do not necessarily agree with that suggestion, even though I agree to combine a surveillance role in a financial market. One example is the government's loan, which is part of the Federal Bank and a large publisher and partner in the stock market. It would likely be thought of how the unity will affect the surveillance of this department, so to speak. This will likely be done in such a way as to keep track of the stock market. I think there may be a dangerous way to do this. So here comes the role of the Bank, as a lender for times of stress, as well as a topic for discussion. You might wonder, " How does this fit in with my apparent role? ' Mr. President. The big question about this report is what the government intends to do with it. Will there be extensive changes to the role of the World Bank? Will the dollar remain our currency? Will the binding be related to possible wax - burgundy replacements? Will the government finally take care of the index price? It'll be the highest. Prime Minister to answer. You don't buy an expensive report like this just to talk about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u61	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The speech of Þórarinsson's son. He specifically pointed to the fact that, as I believe, the name Þráinn Þynin the Már of Baldursson and Friðrik Válldsson of 2015 produced a bill for changing the law on the Secret Bank. Hv. A senator specifically mentioned whether I could explain what would happen together and what would not be comparable between these reports. This is not done in a service group report, such as driving. A senator points out. I would have considered it helpful to have a financial and business committee, but, of course, there is an agreement between some of the proposals of 2015 and this new report, particularly the role of the Federal Bank on financial status. It also speaks of an increase in the auxiliary bank manager's number being two but not one, but is not marked in the same way as in the proposals of this staff, and it does not require a multi-command. One minute is not enough to review the difference between these reports, but I thought normal in the light of words why. A senator's review of this was specifically considered in the economic and business committee on the report.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u62	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The answer is made by the prime minister, and it describes my joy as a spokesman for this examination within the committee. I think it's very important. As I say, there are many practical suggestions in the 2015 report and they should be taken into account when the committee reviews this new report and see if there are no consonants available on certain chapters and if it is not to be used. I welcome this answer to the highest degree. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u63	A respectable president. Hv. A senator spoke of the authors of the report. But I just want to protect the author who has a word. A senator was a slight attack on professional authors because of political ties. True, it is good to keep them in mind, but they also need to be objective. According to this, it would be very good to get an equal assessment of such a report, such as a '-peer review', which is done on a scientific basis. Besides, I wanted to ask you why. A senator's policy of removing the mortgage team from the index price of consumers he went to, but now there is very much inflation pressure, not much pressure on the increase in housing prices. So if the mortgage is removed from the index number at the next time, housing loans will increase enormously because of a general index without housing teams.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u64	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. He mentioned that I had strongly criticized the authors of this report and their political ties. I don't want to view it as harsh criticism. It was just a friendly tip. Perhaps it is just a coincidence that they are linked to the Independence Party, which is the author of the reports that the state fund pays a considerable amount of money and we have seen recently. Maybe it's just a coincidence. I'd like to say, though, that the main writer of this report, Ásgeir... can't remember what son he is... Prime Minister. [[Jón Bjarna's son.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] There we see another link, so it may be difficult in our little country not to have any connection. In fact, I believe that a professional is going there, and the criticism is not about it. This may be a coincidence, but it is appropriate to mention it. I see that time has passed, so I have to come back for the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u65	A respectable president. As a result, it would be interesting to wonder how much reports and assessments such as this should take place in the educational community in general instead of the appointment of a task force with the type. But in all equal terms, I see it as far more extensive scientific consultations. Although I don't intend to downplay the professional conclusions of this group, I don't think it's a coincidence that the person with the report authors is so political, unfortunately. But then I'm gonna give them what. A senator has the opportunity to answer the question of the housing team. If you look at it, and the report of the rise in prices now flows into the Association of Shopping and Service according to a news report yesterday, and there is no evidence that housing prices are rising - so in this future it is the protection that controls the inflation but not as it was before, where prices generally controlled the inflation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It'll be interesting to see that in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u66	The Parliament's officials remind us that when they talk about non - Christians who are unable to appear in a public chair and answer in their own ears, they take a good look at the matter and make a good choice of their words.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u67	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. The construction team has made a big difference regarding the public mortgage. We know that. This has been observed in the discussions, and these groups have increased their housing debt to over a hundred billion and more. [[Up front.]] I'm not quite sure I agree with that. A senator when he speaks of changes in this way that the housing team is even positive in the index for other elevations. I can't quite agree with that. But the point is this, and we know this about the housing team: Should the common people pay for, for example, this is the case. loss of weight, high housing prices, etc.? Should he pay for it in his mortgage? I think it's important. This is shown in the report, and I am delighted that authors took such a decisive stand. And I hope the government will take it as a model and do what comes out there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u68	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The one before the speech is Þórarinsson's son. I'd like to talk to him about the suggestions and maybe the first thing about Proposition 7, i.e. proposal for an influx head on funding entered the country. Now it's traced, and I understand that the report does not suggest that the influx seas are not one of the devices that the Armada had discussed, but mostly that they began to be relieved. What seems to be happening in the economy is that the dollar is getting sick - and it doesn't seem to be getting sick, it's getting sick these days. Is it not, then, the exact time that it might be wise to relax the commitment of influx? Probably to the point of playing a little. [[The president calls.]] Isn't this a device that the Navy's gotta have?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u69	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I agree with what. Senator, I believe this is a device that is good to have and that has been good for us. I don't agree with the World Cash Fund in this regard. They take a very decisive stand for these factors to be resolved. You're right next door. Perhaps it is time for a senator to take some cautious step. I'm going to agree with you. That's what a senator does. But I agree with that, and I say again that this is a very important control tool that makes us so important. We know this story with the snow hang, and how difficult and difficult it proved to be. I hope this is a device that we can have in our hand if the situation changes. We're such a small economy that it's necessary in my opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u70	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I'd like to come back to a later answer only to the kind of message that's a little over and around the report, that the key to the whole economy is, in fact, what the authors call following the rules, to set their own interests and then to try to follow them. I hope so. A senator would agree with me, but I think maybe it's a big thing that we control the economy. In this way, we can truly improve the interests of the public in the country, i.e. by not falling into temptation forever, or by resorting to sudden solutions. In that way, we are actually far more successful. Perhaps it is a big lesson that the authors are sharing with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u71	Mr. President. I agree that there is a need for order in these matters. Unfortunately, there has been a lack of transparency in decision-making, as reported in the report. We'll see, for example. In terms of the management interest rates and decisions made by the money conference, it is necessary for the market to understand what the bank is going to do and to the public as well. It's been, like I said here, wrapped up a little mystery and decisions even made in back rooms that I don't think are good. You're right next door. Senator, this is a little red thread in this report. I'm glad the staff are pointing this out and suggesting ways to increase transparency. It's very important in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u72	Mr. President. There was a fine review of the proposals of the Committee on the matter. Senator. But I'd like to introduce a suggestion of seven about the influx seas and, in fact, is about establishing the influx head, a specific kind of currency handle, not just as a device that the General Assembly could record, if needed, but, rather, in general, a practical management tool for the Sentout Bank. I wanted to ask you what. A senator, in view of the fact that I was heard in his case, was accompanied by the arrangement to maintain the crown with its current inflation goals and free sciences, i.e. free business, how to justify it, for example. Forecasts and companies in various export operations and anything in Iceland to maintain this prenup.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u73	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. We must also keep this in mind that the removal of the commitment may make the dollar stronger, considerably. This would be a bad influence for the exports, for example, and for the fishing and tourism. In that respect, I don't think it's necessary, as it were. A senator expressed it, to justify it specifically in these articles. This is in my mind an important device that I think we should keep in the handle. I've traced it here, when we didn't have it, the consequences for us. I can see that, of course, under certain conditions in the economy, certain cautious steps can be taken to eliminate this. And I also believe that an arrangement, as it is in Chile, is described in the report, with a view to the length of bonds, etc., may be a means of taking this step. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u74	Mr. President. In a way, when a dollar is strong, the company loses and when the dollar is sick, the business is made poor, but the home is lost. It's the arrangement we live in while it's swinging. As long as we have this arrangement, try not to stop the fluctuations, or at least control them in any way, someone in Iceland will always be losing the situation. From time to time, these fluctuations will get ahead of themselves, causing some kind of head condition to be needed. It's one of the few that's conclusively proven in economics. It's important to me. Councilmen who intend to support it as an arrangement and, in addition, an amazing flutter on the money system, justify it to the public, and even to the companies of the country, why they think this is a better arrangement than trying to achieve some sort of stability. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u75	Mr. President. We live in a small economy, as we know it. We must look to experience. This has been done in this report. There is a great deal of history in it when it comes to the nation's money issues, and it has not been successful enough. But we do need these devices, especially in the light of experience. I can't see that these seas are bad for the public to have to be specifically justified in the public. This is primarily true of this wax trade. They do not subject themselves directly to the common people, so to speak. [[Up front.]] - Yeah, yeah, you're right. Senator. But in the light of history and what I've traced here, I'd like to reiterate what I've said, that I don't agree with the World Bank that you can't take this off at once, but I'm trying to do it in some reasonable step. [[The president calls.]] It's my case in this, so we don't take any special risks in that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u76	Madam President. We're getting ready to revise the money policy. It is important that this discussion takes place in this room, and it is also clear that the Economic and Business Committee will interfere greatly with the development of issues and the future of the money policy for a detailed discussion and that we should say research. The report or the suggestions presented here and suggestions offered by a staff on the reevaluation of the money policy are detailed, and I think that all of us can agree that the work has been done well in the field, although we may be able to make disagreements about some of the suggestions or findings published there. I note here at the outset that, in all principle, I agree with the results that the staff find that even though there may be differences in their shades, they may still be there. You see, I am convinced that as far as I can see, I am involved at the end of the talk, is our currency, and we were assured here a decade ago or so that it is important to a small economy like Iceland, a economic system that is dependent on foreign markets, depending on the movements of nature, even though it is not otherwise, the sovereignty at the time of money. We have seen and sensed the tremendous hardships of other nations, even bigger ones, that did not have sovereignty in their financial affairs. New and improved money policy - it's rather worth talking about reformed money policy - can in my mind not only take into account the price - related goals, though they must be one of the main objectives, rather than the Secret Bank's tasks, to secure financial stability and contribute to a balanced balance in currency markets and to reduce fluctuations. When making decisions about the tools we want the Navy to have and the goals he should have, I draw back and forth the importance of considering how the money policy will affect the competitiveness of Icelandic prowess. When the real interest level in Iceland is higher than in major competitive countries it reduces the competitiveness of an enterprise in Iceland. But something more is happening. Of course, it will be so that major growth differences between Iceland and major commerce can lead and have led to a dangerous imbalance in payment balance and create economic and economic instability in themselves. We've been put to the test. The decision is now being made that the government will aim to unite the Federal Bureau of Justice with one hat. I am personally convinced that it is wise and has long spoken to them. The staff didn't go that far, and they wanted to ensure their national interest and caution in the Secret Bank that they could get it as a project. I'd like to quote Ásgeir Jónsson, the chairman of the staff, who tells the current business magazine that it is fundamental that one party is responsible for the financial system and national response. That's why I'm taking it. However, he insists that the SEC should probably remain under surveillance. The aim is that all national eco-re instruments will be in the hands of Iceland's National Bank, thereby increasing financial stability in the activities of the bank. This results in the process from analysis to decision more efficient and the responsibility completely clear. In its simplest form, the money policy revolves around printing money, often electronically, or at the price of valuables. Wrong approach, when deciding to print money, if I use it a simple word, may cause great economic damage. But money policy, no matter how clearly we contribute to it, and all the necessary tools are not supported by the financial stability of the bank itself. It doesn't matter whether we're talking about prices, gangs, or constant jobs. You see, the government business takes 42% of the country's production. In this way the government's financial resources and, in particular, the government we are responsible for play a key role in the economy. As a result, expenses, tax returns, and loans from a government fund have a significant impact, often large, on economic stability, inflation, and, in fact, economic growth as such. Even if we are united in implementing all 11 proposed proposals, this will not work regardless of how reasonable and practical the suggestions are. It will also not be enough, though, if the Councilman in his entire job applies all the rules that are important, of course. If, in fact, the government's financial regime and the public does not support the government of the country, or at least If it does not work against it, there is not much work to do in establishing a new policy of money. Unfortunately, the fact that there has been almost no exceptions in recent decades does not matter who's in charge of a trust fund or who is a government official, it doesn't matter who's in charge given little help to the money policy. In fact, there are times when she's actually working against it. That is why in 2015 the Allied Council adopted a law on public finances, which gave us clear financial rules, including financial guidelines. "Environment rule, debt rule and debt rule." The main problem of that financial principle is that the Icelandic government here in this hall made a decision to look to a simple policy of survival, not to the economy of the corrected recovery. So the executional rule we've made actually provides little or nothing to hold back time, and it's discipline that we thought, and we ourselves believe that we're giving these new financial rules. I'm saying that in these rules, and especially in the rest of the rules, there is false security. We need to discuss this in particular, and in the context of this, we need to improve our money policy. Madam President. I see that when you talk about as complicated a subject, time is usually shorter than you think, so I'm going to skim over what I was going to say. But there is one thing I must draw attention to. We are at a critical time. I think the forwards are so huge that all of our ideas about money management, government money and how we financing the state funds are at least You've been challenging him. About 30 years ago or so, I believed that there was evidence to allow currency to be allowed here in Iceland, that individuals and businesses could use the currency they wanted. In fact, I felt that there was no basis for a private person to give out a check for valuables, called currency. Of course, it's a fun idea, completely opalescent, but a very fun mental flow, but I see this happening. This is happening. More importantly, competition with currency is already taking place in a limited way, but it is taking place, including in a network store. Now I go and buy some books or clothes - of course, it's mostly my daughter who buys clothes, me books - on foreign Web sites, and it's all in a foreign currency. I even want to use the currency I want to use. It is, of course, a competition for currency. It's going to grow. What is more - the challenges of a government fund and the public are facing. This affects how we make money. This can have a profound effect. And this is not just a challenge attached to Iceland, it's an international challenge. We have also seen this challenge in crystals when it comes to the media, which are in a great struggle to maintain their share in competition with international giants on social media media media that pay little or nothing in common against what the Icelandic media have to do when selling advertising. This is a real challenge - this is not coming at us tomorrow or next week or next week - or next year - but I think it's good for us and good for us when we discuss the future of money policy and the good suggestions we have here, that we keep in mind that we are at a turning point. I think our ideas on the financial system, about banks and payment services, are old-fashioned, that we need to figure it out and try to draw up what the future is and how we're going to react to it. It is, I think, the wise to start such a discussion here and the need to keep in mind that even if we resolve the present task to shape new financial policies, we must also be prepared to meet the challenges that are sure to come ahead. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u77	Madam President. Now I agree with a lot of what appeared in a good diagnosis. paritaprevir Kárason Björn's son. He explained the problem, that I think, very well. Realistically, international and international relations are making competition between currency sources. Furthermore, there have been long - range ideas about further opening up these competitions, e.g. Bernard Lietaer, who was the one who invented the system that led to the idea that these vast numbers of currency could become one euro, but he always spoke of the need for much more currency to make the euro succeed. In the light of this good analysis and that attitude. A senator's motive is to ask him if the current arrangements for floating gangs and inflation are better than the other. A lot of talk has been made about currency. However, there is now a traditional gang tie. There is a stability arrangement for binding. There is a barrier where the control group develops over time. There is a landscaping binding where the tracking system is used, but there are manual changes to react to the external circumstances. There's a loose binding within a horizontal margin. There are lots of methods we know. These are five methods I mentioned, which all have in common, not currency. Could any of these be a problem. A candidate's appreciation, or delight, so that a dollar doesn't have to deal with the problems he so carefully mentioned in his analysis?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u78	Madam President. First, I think it's necessary that we keep in mind that one is a currency, one that people do business with, and another is currency, i.e. It's not that hard. It's, for example. The currency we need to settle with our emperor. The Emperor's what Caesar is - he gets the money from us. I'm not talking about the effect of money policy getting out of a relationship in such a way that it disappears, but it's gonna be different. The challenges we have to face in the future are not just about the money policy but also about how we are going to be involved in the Kingdom Fund income system, for example. value tax, which was our most important income share. He's threatened. We need to talk about it. We can't figure it out here in Iceland alone, it's an international problem that people have to deal with. Hv. A senator comes here with lots of ideas. I'm not going to rule them out. But I think it's important, when people discuss how they want to plant the crown or what they want to do - even pick up the euro that is the password heard in many people - that they keep in mind that it's always the cost of sacrifice. There is no one method that is free of charge. One method, e.g. requires that we be prepared to reduce our pay in Iceland if necessary. One method requires that we reduce our pay and unemployment if we are going, for example. to bind the crown's gang to one currency or to a currency, etc., requires another type of discipline, and then discipline must be the means of making a decision to reduce pay and to increase unemployment. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u79	Madam President. There's a lot of things involved. I'm not necessarily aware that the euro is the solution. I think the euro is one possible solution that we should be looking at very realistically. But this arrangement I mentioned is also a strategy that we should look at with a realistic view. The fault of the mint scheme has been mentioned. They certainly are. I'm not convinced that these faults are overwhelming, but it can be done. The most important thing I find in this discussion of all is that according to the education and, according to all the experience people have, there are exactly two possibilities in the situation, either an arrangement in some way or some sort of postponing of an independent money policy. These are the only two possibilities available. Then I wondered, since there are three things that come about, free flow of money, score stability, and right to independent money policy--of the three, it must be most important for the Icelanders to be able to engage in unrefundable, totally unrefundable, free international transactions, and that the currency is not going anywhere. Actually, in certain limited cases independence is important. There are ways, such as the landscaping system, that deal with allowing a limited amount of independence when it is needed to deal with external situations, but otherwise with other currency and without great gaming problems. I'm asking why. A member of Congress: Is it not necessary to take such a route rather than always, from now on and on permanently, tied in our heads?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u80	Madam President. I can't wait to have another place to say. A senator, both here, hopefully, and for what also. The Economic and Business Committee. We're both amateurs and we enjoy this. One thing: The crown is not the only currency in the world that swings. I'm going to point out that over the last four years, the difference between the highest and the lowest euro value and $3353/4. The difference between the highest and the lowest euro values and thesterlingspunds is 40%, it is similar to the difference between the euro and the Icelandic kroner. Let's get this straight. Head or not: The independent money policy with the crown calls to mind that Iceland's Sedlabanki, responsible for financial stability - is responsible for trying to reduce gang swings, keep controlling growth at reasonable limits, and that there is no abnormal interest difference between Iceland and other countries, a competitive country, which increases the influx of funds - needs to have in its tool something called binding duties. However, it is not wise to use this tool unless necessary. This is not a sacred duty. Although a tool exists in the sledgehammer, it does not need to be used when a small dollhammer works. Senator. We must agree on that. That's what this is about. The use of tools, the use of them wisely when needed, and then money policy will work better. We will see only a steady crown, but it will continue to swing in the future. A person who claims that a currency, euro, or dollars can be recorded and who claims that there will be no fluctuations in the march is, of course, deceiving the public. [[The president calls.]] But these fluctuations will not take into account economic conditions in Iceland. That's the difference between the dollar and the euro and the Icelandic crown.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u81	Madam President. Thank you. Kárason I'm looking forward to discussing this subject at heart. The Economic and Business Committee. The senator spoke a little about how the 2015 financial guidelines were good, but they really needed support during the up - to - date, or they needed more in the up - to - date. Then I would like to have a word with the senator about the National Fund, a plan to see in it, or in such a phenomenon the long term resort of caution. That we will use this national fund to become one of the anchors in the Icelandic economy and economy, as the Norwegian have done with their national treasure, and that it will be one of the devices in the chest, like the whale. A senator came to this point, in order to take the downturn period to cope with the situation and to reduce them to a degree the need for other verdant tools.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u82	Madam President. I feel like my partners on the Economic and Business Committee are taking advantage of this opportunity to question me. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Now let's leave it between parts. Now we will see the framework of a national fund. If the memory doesn't betray me, I'd say that all the party members here at council spoke for one way or another on their policy list of some kind of national fund in the past month and a lost and before elections. I'm not going to hang myself to be right, but at least... The Independence Party did so, and I want all the government groups. However, I have certain doubts about the right to make a national treasure in the way that humans are going to do. Perhaps my doubts will be ruined when I see the order around the fund, who is to guide it, and what goals are really with it. It is already being removed from him before he is formed, and we have begun to praise him, so it is said. All right, you see, I'm following how to spend it, don't get me wrong. But that's how I'm made, and that's my outlook on life, you have to try to understand it, my left-green partners, that I always become defensive when I'm made up of public funds that are to be handed over to some government officials or specialists to handle and erase or take into the fund according to the circumstances they appreciate. It may be the solution to the fact that this is part of the money management and, hence, the custody of the Federal Bank. [[The president calls.]] Hv. Senator. I'm going to figure out the right to think things over. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u83	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's answer, or his dissatisfaction, according to incident. As if I'm such a trust fund, in time he can become an anchor in the Icelandic economy in a similar way even to the pension fund, though it may take some time, i.e. There's a lot of money bound that has a certain obligation and can't be moved except on certain grounds. That's kind of what I'm doing with the senator. It is useful for the swing economy and the resource economy, such as the Icelandic economy, to nail down a few heels that can help us in times of worse years. Only as a whole. The Senator may consider it a sort of hearing before we go over it on the committee, that's all right. I'd like to take in the senator for the Appropriations Prohibition. I remind you that suggestion number three or four, it's not quite in your head. Does he agree with that suggestion? Wants him to go a little further, i.e. will the SEC move to the National Bank, or does he feel that it is sufficient for him to apply the proposals of the staff?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u84	Madam President. First to the national treasure. I'm not saying that it should not be made a national treasure. I understand the logic. There are many reasonable reasons for setting up this fund. I just want the whole book to be clear, when it can be used, etc., so there are no officials or politicians who want to be good at it. I also wondered if it wouldn't make much more sense, because money in the fund is primarily to come from the use of resources, that we send a check to all Icelanders once a year, on the condition that they place their money in a special pension fund? Isn't that just nice? I'd at least... I want to mention it when we begin talking about the fund. I'm sorry about the F.O.D. Nothing's perfect. I'm on the level that it's wise to combine the UN as a whole with the Bank of Iceland. I understand, however, the reasoning that Ásgeir Jónsson has given. In an interview with the Business Journal, it makes at least a few hours. not much comment to the purpose of uniting these two organizations together as a whole. I think it's better. However, the main issue of all the national eco-weapon devices is that monitoring the overall financial functions is so important. That's why I don't understand how you can break it apart that all these devices are on one side, the one to control money policy. I'm convinced that it makes more sense and that it supports the highest level. The prime minister is eager to achieve this unity.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u85	Before we go any further, the president wants less of it. The members of Parliament shall discuss this report according to the council. It gives you a reason. The members of the council are given a talk lesson. At the same time, they can enter the platform more than once. However, the president directs them to the council to respect the time of public speaking and especially the time given.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u86	Madam President. Now we are discussing a report on the future of Icelandic money policy, and this kind of discussion has to be started by pointing out that Iceland's money policy has been marked by an enormous intolerance to facts for years. One fact of the matter is that according to the existing report, the continued use of a cent with an inflation aim in the system we have today in the form of a continuing currency head, if not stuck, by regular recycling after the economy has one or another fucked up. Second, religion has been learning for quite a long time in choosing a currency system, and it is seen in part in the present report in which only two options of countless possibilities are discussed, as well as in the previous Iceland State Bank report, where several important options were released. These political games have been played for years to avoid the seriousness of these items, even though I believe that it is an excellent effort to do so today at the highest level. Prime Minister. There are simply some very well - connected members of Iceland who have been discussing this instability that damages most of the homes and most of the companies in one way or another. The report contains many excellent suggestions and some less practical suggestions. I'm going to briefly review some of them, first the seventh motion on the Influx Head, which actually places political responsibility on the heads of technical experts in the Federal Bank. This may be necessary in some way, but still a little dangerous, we need to take a very careful look at the political responsibilities involved in such cases. Furthermore, this suggestion is a suggestion and confirmation of what I said, that, according to the present arrangement and the proposed proposals, the fact by the arrangement we're talking about will be some kind of preconceived fact. Second, there is a question of indexes without housing teams. There are advantages and advantages, but I make it clear that this is done only within the bank's decision of interest and therefore is not covered, so if it is to be done, it must be done entirely at the level of inflation. The fourth proposal for financial stability beyond merit. There is, for example, a very limited level of merit in Iceland, so this may be already tried, but it is a good reason to ask, " Is financial stability a realistic goal in a country where prices are the way they are? ' It's quite the case that we have a very large growth system, we often have severe inflation, and it's very connected, so I would like to go deeper into that goal. Pronunciation 6 is a traffic system in New Zealand. This may be a bit of a concentration point, and I hope that this will not reduce the severity of the situation, but I feel that it takes quite a lot more than a traffic light to stop a money system that is driving under the influence of high-growing and growing exchanges from aimless losses and conflict. It is fine to have some kind of standard, but let's not rely on them in an environment where the underlying factors are so that there will always be another shock. There are other points. I don't know if in itself I agree to unite, e.g. The F.O. and the S.O.B. There are advantages and advantages. I have a suggestion, 8. It's just a little more transparent, it's a hell of a good thing. The report, as it were, starts with throwing out any other option other than the current position and using the next 220 pages to measure the same condition, and this is done at the worst if a doubtful analysis of the chapters contradicts itself, but instead of spending my time in a lot of criticism at the points of the report, I'd rather start by looking at a little more report that clearly shows why this report is not good enough for this discussion. So this report is published annually by the Annual Report on Communications and Experiences, by permission of the President, i.e. Annual report on currency arrangements and currency share limits. It explains the classification system of a currency system with ten different general species that can be implemented in different ways according to national preferences. These species can be separated from a money policy system where a second currency or other currency system can be used as an anchor under the currency market, using an inflation aim, as Iceland does today, or setting goals for financial development, called the "Monetary Aggretes Targets, by permission of a president. Each of these financial policies can then be seen in a number of structure systems, i.e. A process of self-destruction. You can, for example, do so. adopt another currency of one-sided, coin-fixer, with a standard value binding to another currency, with a constant binding mechanism, a crawling binding in which a reference group develops over time, having a landslide binding where a moving tool is used, while there are some manual modifications to manage external situations and such loose binding within the horizontal border. It is before we arrive at another controlled system together with floating and floating gangs, but the difference between the last two is mainly the amplitude expected from the Federal Bank at one time. Madam President. As you can see from a quick review of this long report, which I recommend to introduce people, this is a very extensive system of sorting, and every country in the report has a view of evolution and a change in its direction over time. It is evident that large numbers of possibilities are available. If we compare this with this report on the future of Iceland's financial policies, it will reveal that there is no actual analysis of these options. The aim of the report says, on permission of the president: The choice of money management options should be analysed and evaluated. This includes implementations for policy targets, such as traditionally fixed or fixed in the form of a currency scheme. The experience of other countries from a similar arrangement and the design to the extent needed to compare it with the results from 2◯ So says on page 18. 8 By permission of the President: If a dollar remains the currency of the Icelanders in the immediate future, it actually has only two advantages: A. To proceed with an existing arrangement that involves following an independent policy of money under the mark of an inflation target. B. to stop running independent money policy and permanently attach the crew of the crown with a currency scheme that means that all domestic currency is guaranteed by foreign currency. This statement is made on page 18. 8 without any reasoning, why these two options are practical. In addition, there are only handlers that there are alternative options at various locations in the report but never deal with them as real options. By ignoring all these options as an initial point and then rejecting the currency advice on the basis of the risk of a trade, the committee begins to conclude that no other arrangement is possible than the existing arrangement. I'm in a short talk, and I don't have much time to fill in this major methodological gap, but there may be a need for someone to do so. Instead, let us look at just what Iceland has today in relation to countries with comparable arrangements. The list is interesting, it contains a number of countries that have been struggling with one another's cash crisis, not to mention long - standing long - distance flutters on both their operating systems and their financial systems. Then we're talking Albania, Argentina, Armenia, Brazil, Colombia, Georgia, Ghana, Guatemala, Hungary, and this is just the list of English alphabetics, nothing is released. The list contains such countries with a strong and stable economy called South Korea and New Zealand, and all the other countries on the list that have the same structure we have today, i.e. A liquid gang with an inflation goal, has struggled with persistent problems with its financial systems. It is true to note that in itself there is nothing to say in these countries I have visited half of them, and they are just very nice, I want to go back there, but there is no serious way that the money policy of these countries is quite to cry out for, unfortunately,. They would actually benefit from having this conversation that we now have, and preferably without a report from a committee that beats all other options off the board before the game begins. All right, then what are we gonna do? It has been said that there is a minimum U.S. liquid currency and thus live in lower impact tolerance than other mediums, which have more users and more value behind them, since the alpha value of the Paretophere, which describes the distribution of capitals is lower and more consistent. This is also said without actually dealing with the elephant in the room, which is shown in box 5 of the report and is subsequently ignored. This reference is made to an article by Hélène Rey, a professor at London Business School, regarding a report she wrote. There she argues that the nations really had only two options, not three of a gang case, by permission of a president: ▪ Really, a couple's incompatibilities could be spoken of as one of the perfect freedoms for capital exchange and the other: independence in money matters. These two could never have a place to spend the night together. The choice of maintaining independent money policy involves the choice of capitalists. That's actually the only thing that matters in this context. We're choosing a budget plan by maintaining our current money policy, regardless of how many fine changes are made to help us manage this with our individual economic instruments. Many countries with comparable economic systems have chosen different ways from ours. Some have succeeded, but others have been evil. As shown in the case of what? paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son doesn't have a magic solution, but it's clear that there's nothing that the Icelandic economy can take to the length. That is why we are always seeking to get out of them, and whenever we get out of them, we end up in the same crisis again. Choosing the same situation is choosing a capital master. Subjects who support the same condition, i.e. No matter what minor adjustments, you need to explain why you prefer capital master over free business. The report excludes only one of the many advantages that do not involve capitalism. It does so on a rather slim basis, so I would say that the report was insufficiently included in this discussion despite some practical suggestions. This linking is essential for us to stop making the nonsense that our money policy is about the independence of a verse in the European Union as part of the discussion. At best, that's poor simplicity. Today, it is widely recognized that there is only one or another choice between seams and currency alliances, a wide - wide combination of coins where there is some sort of loose binding in the example. The public deserves more than this stated simplicity of the discussion. In view of this, I think it is best to call for a new report that does not bind to the religion that there must be a dollar and not bind to the religion that is the only option and solve the real problem because a large number of desirable economic possibilities exist if we choose to defer them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u87	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech is excellent. I don't agree with all of it, but I don't think he expected it. Hv. A senator criticizes the authors because they really appreciate it so that there are only two advantages, either an independent policy of money, or a relationship with a coin or a coin basket, etc. I wondered, " Was it the role of the Committee according to a letter? ' It is clear that the service group was to assume that the price would remain the currency of the nation. I realize there's some group here, senators who think the dollar should not be a future currency. I'm not one of them. I'm telling you, a lot more of the senators and a lot more of the country's part is that we keep our sovereignty in money matters. But saying so, I wondered, " Why? ' A senator appreciated it as a political will, and it is the will and general understanding of the public to adopt either a fixed policy or to adopt another currency and pay the cost of it. The cost is that the currency we use will not change according to the economic situation here in the workplace or elsewhere. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u88	Madam President. I want to start by saying that it is clear, even in what I read from the report earlier, that according to my objective, more possibilities were to be identified than just those two, but that was not done. There are goals that, as I understand them and are mentioned in the report, came from the highest level. Prime Minister, however, those goals were not followed and were not set up. The question arises, Can it be said that Denmark, Croatia, northern Macedonia, Czech Republic, and Serbia are countries that have sacrificed their independence? I can mention quite a few other countries, I have excellent lists and good pills in front of me that show that these are countries that do not all hold fast, only Denmark of the people I mentioned, who have fixed bonds between Danish and euro. All the others have an arrangement, some sort of a stability arrangement. I'm not saying that these countries sacrificed their independence, but I'm pretty sure they chose some kind of stability in their currency. If the public is necessarily involved and if he supports taking the risk with this, I don't know, but I know that the public has not been asked the opinion of taking the risk of high-growing and heavy gang fluttering that leads to a very high price and so forth. There's something we should ask the public about, there's good reason.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u89	Madam President. Let us bear in mind, as I think that in my speech earlier, it is not as if a dollar is the only currency in the world that swings. That's what everyone's gonna do, and especially Euro. If we go all the way back to the time when the euro was picked up, then the swing was huge, it's not 30%, I think it's between 70-80% and a dollar. Let it be between parts. What I'm trying to draw out is that if you're going to go some way that involves a currency plan or to pick up another currency I'm prepared to discuss, they'll also have to be honest in pointing out to the public that, yes, the benefits are at hand, but that's a drawback. The negatives include: We need to cope with economic declines, and we need to have the strength to do so. The job market, in the form of less pay, less money and less employment. This national soul of our Iceland is somehow like that, if I sense it correctly, that it is one thing that we cannot bear, and that's a lot of unemployment. If they're going to go this way, let them also point out that this is the cost we're going to -- I'm not saying he's going to fall to -- to be ready to pay if we're going to go any way that way. Finally, I'd like to ask you why. A member of the council believes that the aim of the money policy should be.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u90	Madam President. It may be the right thing to make again that it is wrong to put this against us in contrast, on the other hand, in a fixed policy, and on the other hand, a liquid currency. There are lots of other options, I mentioned five. Talking about the cost of having some sort of fixture or creeping structure or whatever, is absolutely justified. I totally agree with what. In view of the cost, we must also consider the costs of having this arrangement of high interest policy that costs more than tens of billions of homes. As for the flutter, yes, of course, the euro flutters, of course, the dollar flutters and all the fine currency I have right here in front of me and they flutters to one another. Some do not flit against certain other currency, and that is what the tie involves. The Singapore dollar flutters, e.g. not for any currency or at least within certain bands. It's a flutter, but the question is, How fast does this flutter, on what basis does it happen, and who loses it? I'm going to assert here that the current crescent structure is always causing the flutter to take place in the homes and in exchanges, and this arrangement allows it to speed up changes as we have seen during the past month to bring an end to any prescientity in the economy. I'd rather be able to rely on another currency, which is bigger and moves more slowly toward other currency, not necessarily that we pick it up, I'm not necessarily a spokesman that we just pick up euro or something like that, but use the methods that are there to get the best results for the people in the country. It's supposed to be a goal of money policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u91	V.E.G. President. We will review the future of Icelandic money policy and reevaluate the framework of money policy produced by a working group appointed by a former government in March 2017. He returned this fine report in June. First, I want to say thank you for your report and thank you for your history. Prime Minister and the discussion here. I think it's very important input and necessary for the possible changes we'll probably see on the bill. This report offers suggestions for improving the money policy. I would like to then say, especially in the context of this discussion about the currency I understand, that it is of course clear in the report that the work group was working to reevaluate, but on the grounds that Iceland's currency in the immediate future would be U.S. dollar, perhaps unlike the good report of the 2012 National Bank, where the figure was that there would be a total of $1 million in the near future. It has now been six years, and I have often said that it may be time to take an extension of that report and see what has happened during the six years. It is now the Icelandic crown that there are not very many choices that we actually discuss here. It reflects very well in the discussion, there are these two advantages, of having an independent, independent money policy with some kind of floating gang and free capital transport, in- and outflow. We've tried. Perhaps it is easy to stand here and say that we cannot cope because it may have led to the collapse of the entire financial system. Then there is the other thing that we have, to attach, or work with a constant gang and make use of, including the following: tools were used with increased emphasis on national emissary. This is on the basis of what this report is presented. All the suggestions presented here are based on evidence, supported studies, and offered foreign counselors to gain outside knowledge of the areas in which they need to reason on the proposed suggestions. So I can't stand here and run these suggestions. I think many of them are very good and could, as with most of them, give reasons for it. I think this steady discussion, of giving up the independent money policy and going to a currency alliance or currency advice, is understandable in the light of the Icelandic craze during the past year, during the last days, in some sort of search for adjustment, looking for a new balance. We have observed that the dollar has yielded to, e.g. Euros are getting sick. one month about 5% and a little scratch in the head over what's going on right now. However, analysing agents indicate that the pillars are in order. That's the rest of the business equation. The level of debt is strong, and it is a handsome currency supply. So the analysis isn't on the table. It speaks of some kind of moaning, so we can imagine that the discussion here is about where we're going. In any case, we will discuss this report on that basis, and that is what I intend to do before I make some suggestions, that the currency in the near future will be $1 million. On this basis, the task force was to evaluate the European Economic Policy over the last few decades in ways that have not been done. Second, he was to appreciate the improvements that might be made in a policy. Third, look at other options, such as traditional fixtures or currency-based fixtures, as I came in on it. Finally, a comparative analysis of these options is made in terms of economic management, its other factors and economic and financial stability objectives. I'm going to agree with the people here on the discussion that what we haven't been able to do so far is to form some kind of financial support for money policy and that this will support each other when we look at the global economy and economic stability. In money policy, we focus primarily on prices. In recent years, we have done well. In the past four years, we have managed to maintain stability, not exceeding 2.5% of the inflation target, but at the same time we have benefited from the direct introduction of prices. However, we took steps in the 2015 state budget. Perhaps the most interesting thing in this report is that it highlights this lack of discipline that we have had in our economic affairs and that we have not followed the rules of law. It may not have mattered completely what game is selected, but it is most important to follow protocols. The Act on Public Economics that we agreed on for 2015 and that we work on today contains financial regulations, terms and criteria. That's exactly the rules and the goal for us to start working on those points, which include: is presented here in the report. There's no magic solutions in money policy, that's what's been said. But once we're done with the game, it's important that we follow the rules. I think it was a very important step that we took by law on government finance when it comes to financial regulations. There's a rule. There is a rule of 30 percent credit, and there is a fall in debt if we don't achieve these goals. However, this was evident in the question of why. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son, the son of Káll, that in the time we're living, when we tend to increase the government spending, expand the boundaries of the budget, we may feel that they lack the support. It has been discussed that in addition to these rules, we should establish a rule that is a rule of some kind. I think there's something we need to talk about as we look at the development of the state budgets. I also think it's important, more dignified, to break this ground before I discuss the personal conclusion of the report. Otherwise, it would be impossible for you to cross a wide range of ground, as if some surmounted journalists had quit if they had had had had very extensive work to do. We've got a long time since sovereignty, we've had instability. This fine report gives many commendation, including the following: Boxes, it provides a fine historical overview of the economy as well. The report shows that unlike other northern countries who have faced similar problems, we have not been satisfied with the discipline and peace needed to cope with this problem, the instability. Despite a different approach to the problem, they have been better able to cope. The conclusion of the task force is that there should be no basis for us to run independent money policy, provided we respect the rules of the game and make peace. It may be the task, but it's not enough. Nevertheless, in recent years we have succeeded, as I said it would be in terms of prices and the amount of money we needed to buy. We've been dropping. We've been dropping. This success is vital to our survival. I talked here about money policy and government policy. Then there's the labour market that might fill that triangle. This agreement will only be reached in the context of the workforce. In recent years, in spite of the high levels of ratings and beyond the established limits of the policy of money, in the report we have been able to control inflation. Thus, the work of collective agreements in this context is not small. Achieving labour market stability is absolutely a foundation of prices. As shown in the 2012 Office of Jehovah's Witnesses, so the work force is beating off the table, as it was also shown in the 2012 Post office of Jehovah's Witnesses. He believes it simply means too much risk for financial stability, and it would be difficult in such circumstances to secure economic stability where interest will attack voluntary markets after supply and demand for cash. Icelandic financial institutions remained unauthorized, as the report says. Thus, in view of the work force, a currency contract would create an unacceptable risk for financial stability and would not recommend that it be an advantage for Iceland. There are 11 suggestions in the report and are quite well presented. That can be commended. In effect, the situation in which we experienced the collapse of the disaster made sense of the national response and its importance. First of all, it is the suggestions for setting up an arrangement, organization, and the responsibility of national emissary, which put the staff in place of financial status committees. This is one of the most interesting things in my life. But we've learned something. It's important. Time is quick to go when we discuss these matters, but I was going to establish that it is the basic position of the staff to take the mortgage out of the index, but it should be noted that the staff feels that it should be carefully considered. I bring it here, a respectable president, because this suggestion of the task force is fully in harmony with the Congress resolution of our candidates approved at the Council on May 8, on the basis of the calculation of insurance. I believe this approved Generalis is important, and the results of the report, suggestions and research that it points to the basis of calculating insurance and the staff of the index, this attitude, should be a good priority, and should fully agree with the earlier bill work. But this coverage leads to another and greater matter, which is the vast price of the housing bar, of which about 80% of the total debt is in debt. This report shows that the management interest network is highly vulnerable to financial loans. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u92	A respectable president. Hv. A senator reviewed the seemingly rooted in inflation, and mentioned that all diagnostics say that everything in the system is secure and that there is really no explanation. But it can be attributed reasonably to the recent rise, by means of a gang boost, by delinquency of tolls, has held down the built - in need of the Icelanders to always raise prices, to be in a certain inflation. In 1994, Brazil changed because of this change wheneales were taken up, changed currency they had fixed - egg prices always remained the same for some time before being replaced. After they split it all out, it remained very tight for a few years. [[The president calls.]] They got rid of their inflation. I think that's the problem that's underlying on us.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u93	V.E.G. President. Whatever it is. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson left for me in answer was an inflation problem. Because I ended my speech by talking about insurance insurance, I think a little bit of this awareness that the price and price of bread were a little dulled. We tend to throw it back on as a later problem of payment. Whether changing currency would get us out of that habit -- I don't know if. A senator planned it, but he'll do it here in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u94	A respectable president. I referred to this experiment in Brazil as an example of how this inflation was released by putting aside a new currency that never took place in spite of the price of the currency that changed from day to day. By the time they changed, people had become accustomed to an egg costing a regal something like that, and they remained. On page 18. 145 is referred to as the difference in how the mortgage is calculated into the index; in Canada over 25 years running, over 30 years in Sweden, it reminds me that it is, and in three months in Iceland. This means that all prices will immediately come into our index number, go to the point where they change a little bit, and thus amplify all the changes that are going to be made in the market. [[The president calls.]] I wondered, " Is it better to go to such a running average than to try to respond quite quickly to the rise or fall? '
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u95	V.E.G. President. Only with this inflatable, fun concept. We could only play with that term. There are some things in our economy that would bring out on the subject of change in prices. That's what permeates everything we've got. But I want to come in here to the mortgage. In a very good report from Gylfi Zoëgi, who worked for the highest. Prime Minister, this is exactly what has been involved with the housing team. It echoes the suggestions given here and the comparisons taken here, with Sweden and Canada. I agree with what. At least a member of the body needs to revise the way we adjust the cost of housing into the insurance policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u96	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech is excellent. I wondered about the rules mentioned in the report and the lessons you can learn. Me and what. A senator may sit on a budget board led by him, perhaps the greatest sentence against us over the years, over the years, that the government's budget has made a big difference in the economy rather than balance it over the years and decades. Maybe it's what worries me most, that we're repeating that game in the spoken words in the budget bill that we are now discussing on a budget board and that we're supposed to take care of for the New Year's Eves. That's what I'm talking about. I agree that this must be one of the first steps. Because the rules of the game are very important. If we are to make this violation of our currency a success of our money government, the government must continue to guide all other parties in a fine example of respecting the rules of rules that need to be respected that are not being done today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u97	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn Víglundsson of Wazowski's question to the rules and premiums. I agree with what. Senator. It is only necessary to examine the history and development of government spending. Let's just take the last five, six, seven years. Ever since we have been able to do so, we have been adding more and more to the real value of our expenses. It's time for your priorities. What do we put in investments? What do we lose on business, etc.? The need for us to reevaluate all government expenditures and to evaluate what they are going to do and to consider investments that will make a success of the future. There's a huge project ahead of us. It is my hope that we will achieve much more interaction with the same protocols between money policy and financial policy ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u98	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. This may be the real issue and the problem, that we are primarily raising the government budget, not investments. This is where we deal with a transport plan. There may be good reasons to believe that over the years there may be good opportunities for significant growth in transport, infrastructure, through cooling economy. But we have no financial means to do so. At the same time, we are raising our national spending on each country from 2.2 million to 2.7 million, or 2.8 million, I think, on solid prices. That's the biggest increase in government expenses I've seen in the last two decades in just as short a time. It is in the state that the Svellabanki maintains a high interest level at the same time when the economy would need to be stimulated and a small business life needed to be replaced by a growing level. It's the rules that you miss that you can never respect. I kind of think the conclusion of this report is that because the labour market and the government are not going to respect these rules, we need a dollar that can take responsibility by failing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u99	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I said here last year, "I agree." Senator. I wholeheartedly agree with him. This is a joint project if we are going to make all this economy work, labour market, money policy, government policy. Because we're what we're supposed to be. There's a senator out there. The budget and the review of these items should be done; in spite of all of this, the consumption as a proportion of GDP remains the same in recent years as GDP grows very much. [[Up front.]] The rest I want to say, because I belong to the highest. Government, the emphasis on education in the budget is future economic growth, right? Travel, forward economic growth, right? And the health system. It is imperative that we make investments in that area. The priority order to that end is correct.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u100	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson's excellent speech. I just want to talk to him about what's suggested in Proposition 7 and get a slightly greater and better view of what he thinks of the influx head as a precaution. It has been observed in the discussion today, at least in the company of some members who are very afraid of this device, fearing that it might be abused and even that it could cause some relief in the economy. I don't agree. I think it's an important tool at the Secret Bank toolbox. That's why I'd like to hear why. It's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u101	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's question is very good and beneficial. The influx seas as we have used them are very important precautions. This report is good because you can now consult it on page 24. 168, because this is a model for the Influx Seas in Chile, which says that financing costs are rising. That's Chile's experience. And why not here? It's been pointed out. Of course, as soon as I say so, it's necessary to keep this device in the drawer with this independent money policy and the Icelandic crown. I agree with what. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason described it very well. Use of the sledgehammer is not necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u102	Madam President. I thank the senator for the answer. I think I feel the same way. Then I'd like to ask what. A senator as a precaution that I have talked about only today, that's the National Fund, whether he sees possibilities in the National Fund, according to the setting of the rules, whether he sees there any potential for caution tools, whether the National Fund can thus become an anchor in the economy, that he can help us deal with fluctuations, and that in this way he may become more like a currency reserve to a certain extent, although he may never be used for the same purpose. What does it look like? A senator playing the fund? Could this be one of them?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u103	V.E.G. President. National Fund. I thought why. A senator I thank for this answer. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, put it very well earlier in a talk that he spoke of as an anchor in our economy. It is advisable when well - oiled sources are stored up and available. But then we come to these questions: How do we use this fund? What will be the frame around him? What's he gonna go to? When do we use it? Under what circumstances? When is our economic situation in order to avoid resorting to it? I'm not really there.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u104	Madam President. I thank the senator for his speech. It is most appropriate that he, as chairman of the budget board, make a special topic of the context of government and money, these two aspects of the economy need to be supportive of each other. This he did with reference to a law on public financial matters set up in 2015. I don't want to jump to conclusions or act rashly here, but based on what seems to be the experience of these laws and some releases, I might suggest an example, but because of this brief speech period, I don't have time to do it - I'd like to ask myself why. A senator whether he believes that experience allows for this law to be revised.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u105	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Ísleifsson The question of the question remains to be answered. We're gonna go for a second. A senator is a member of a budget board, and I believe that we should, in fact, always have these laws in our work. It is good to have that question now because we are in trouble. The budget board is working on a budget bill and has already passed through almost the whole process from policy to plan and then into the bill of two policies and plans. Then we go to the secretary's report, which is new, and for the first time we're reviewing the financial programme. Then I think me and what. A senator and a boy. A legal committee can better determine if there is anything in the law that we want to change and improve.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u106	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer, and allow me to agree with him that, of course, these laws will be granted, even in the face of experience, to undergo a steady review. So I'd like to mention a few random cases: You know a discussion here on 24th. the law on public financial matters of the general reserve. It is known that the State Accounting Office does not trust to sign GDP by 2017, and it is known that income and expenditure are either laid out on business or on pay base according to how it is. After all, it is very difficult to grasp important aspects of the state's population for these reasons and reasons to consider that the law is made to make it possible for the state's affairs to be as short as possible and to play with money in the interest of the government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u107	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator resists. He's coming into play on money policy and government and we're following the rules. No matter what game we choose, we should agree with the rules we play in that game. It's the input, including. in the report we will discuss. There are clear rules regarding handling the general reserve. It's our responsibility. The legal committee to follow them when it comes to making use of them and to obtain evidence of that use. This is one example of how we are following rules and trying to bring discipline into the system. We have indeed done so. We've both called for the highest two. Minister and we have repeatedly sent a statement to Our State Reexamination. This may be a clear example of us being aware of our role in acting according to rules.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u108	Madam President. We'll discuss the report The Future of Icelandic money policy. I want to thank you at the beginning of my speech. To this day, the prime minister of her history and discussion. What is taking place here is a form of shock to a very important process involving discussion and analysis of the money policy we follow and the advantages we may open or not open. Coming up with a discussion about the bill as the highest. Prime Minister has announced a change in the law on Iceland's Federal Bank. It is fine how well we have done today, much and needs and good discussions. I was here giving a written talk, and I'm just going to put it aside and discuss it as soon as the discussion is so far gone. But I would like to say that it is refreshing and, in some respects, fresh breath that follows the report presented here. Many things are well said, and it contains interesting information and analysis of economic and financial issues here on the country. Thank you for a good job for the press chiefs. According to one report, the U.S. press reports that the U.S. currency of the nation will remain in the immediate future. I may add: Whatever the future may hold when we look further, we do not know. The service group actually takes only two advantages, i.e. To continue the course that we have followed for some time and to restore its activities. The other option is so-called mint advice, which is deposed by the board, I refer to the staff as to it. In fact, Iceland is a real problem when it comes to the cornerstone and the development of the economy, which is, of course, the currency. We may not have very many options, such as others, but theirs is to improve the arrangements we have here and on the part of this group of service groups today provide helpful and well - supported tips in this regard. While I have yet to mention the key factors in this regard that I consider to be significant, so that I do not burn in time, but that is that there is one place where national response and financial stability should be. This is, in fact, the first time a significant debate about whether the goal should be to live above it. The conclusion of the group is that the value of values should be replaced when a national opinion of economistry exists. Of course, like others here, I must welcome special discussions about the housing team and the conclusions and comments of the staff in that subject. I'll find out later. Finally, I want to mention here the New Zealand traffic lights, which are a technical issue for setting up the frame or frame of action, sometimes called intervention, the Secret Bank of Pension. Finally, I want to give a special discussion about the influx seas. I hope to the highest. The prime minister forgives me for using this word, but it goes to a staff report. The proposals of the work group aim to improve the implementation of the chemical inflation targets we have been living in for a time. This arrangement is being practiced in many countries, well - known, with its many examples and parallels. The arrangement is short - lived by focusing on transparency and public responsibilities that fit the rules of democratic society. Now these are proposals to take a national interest and define one responsible, as it may be, for the application of existing governmental instruments. There's some suggestions on planning changes in Iceland's Federal Bank. I don't have much to tell you if there's a bank manager or an assistant banker up until then or away. Maybe that's not the big thing. Still another thing, I think, is that in these proposals to bring a great and increased project and responsibility to the Federal Bank, there is absolutely no coverage in this report, which must be on the bill, for monitoring that institution; increased and effective democratic surveillance of the institution to perform such an extensive role. So I'll take it as an example, right here at the Generals scene, that representatives of the Federal Bank arrive at an open meeting regularly. The Economic and Business Committee and this meeting are broadcast or sent to the Senate website. These meetings are not very long, actually very short, and they are good as far as they are concerned, but they need to be much more, and there must be a solid basis for monitoring these functions. It's a small part of the work on the bill's contract. Then you might say that various types of music could be used in this report. When dealing with a variety of fresh winds, the international financial system and conclusions of other experiences are playing on the subject. But then there's a little dark sounds, and people get very serious when they start talking about a new bank manager who's working at the side of the other bank and a multi-organized government inside the bank. The tone of voice is still getting heavier when talking about financial directors and system Risk Committees. The thing about these factors is that as far as it goes, it's all good. There is talk of a bi-targeted and complex decision process, but it would have been gained if the analysis of the effectiveness of these committees and measures, and such analysis would strengthen the proposal for change in this subject. As I mentioned, it is necessary in the work group to confirm financial stability as the target of the Federal Bank, which takes priority over the inflation targets in a given setting. This gives rise to the task force with reference to the social costs resulting from financial instability and Icelanders know it well; unfortunately, I would like to say. In view of this, financial stability must take priority if such circumstances arise. With regard to index housing, it may now have been the case with most people. In this case, a significant subject in the report is that by keeping the mortgage inside the index mark followed by the shape and policy implementation, a significant change in property prices is being taken. That question is well - known throughout the world. I think it's safe to say that it is generally viewed as a way of implementing a financial policy that is not at the Seal Bank to seek to respond to the price change in property markets, since their nature in this way is that if it were to happen, it would require so much and dramatic action on the part of the bank to the real economy, as some call it, it would be necessary to endure heavy loads because of them. The Outfit says that by having this assets inside the index, for the time being, the bank is forced to go on tour and, by President, to blow up the house bubbles with a considerable risk of financial stability and the cost of the physical economy. Of course, the price of property markets is similar, and this has indeed become the case with real estate prices in this country; there are explanations behind it, especially on the forward side of the market. It is reported from the staff that Haggis of Iceland uses a three - month - old average real - estate price that finds its most direct access to the index, as some have mentioned. At the same time, it is noted that in countries that we would like to compare ourselves with, such as Canada and Sweden, there is a 25 - and - 30 - year - old running average. Similarly, since the work force refers to the experience of 2004-2006, which is a detailed example there, it concluded that it is a textbook on the dangers of money - price vaccines. It is estimated that in recent years, there has been a very significant difference in in in inflation development, where significant increases in real - estate prices have led to an increase in index real estate teams - well, they tend to talk about real estate teams in this report, often in this hall called housing - increased by 15◯20% a year, but at the same time, it was found to have been 3,95% inexplicated. I'd like to allow myself to use this opportunity, and I'd like to recall again one more trip up to that point, in response to the highest degree. The secretary of finance for the inquiry I submitted during the past council, that over a five-year period, 2013◯2017, an 118 billion lay on top of the highest mortgage loans, loans to buy in an apartment home, caused by the housing team. If he had not been in the process of distributing during this period, it would have been for the general price change during the same period, 15 billion would have fallen on the head chair. These figures are compared, 15 billion because of global prices change, 118 billion because of their own housing work. It is only later that I begin to address this matter, offering suggestions for the Council that I allow me to draw attention to now. I would also like to draw attention to the group's comment that there is such a question that, as it is said, so much an increase in one class of goods is said, i.e. Homes, which are actually seen as real inflation, as it is said - to me, by the permission of the President, a series of talks I have brought about here in this hall - but only an aspect of the share when other products of the index seem to be on a wide range of declines, as it is called on this report-US. Actually, this report would have endured one good lecture, so I'll shoot at it now. I rejoice at the conclusion of the task force to take the fundamental stand, as it is said, that housing prices should not be at home in Iceland's Summit and should not try to put operating growth on real estate prices when the growth rate is as weak as it is. According to a report of the work group, the bat could compare with other indicators, such as indexes of consumer prices without housing or a uniform index of consumer prices. Of course, the review of this report must make it clear that a review of the index and the type of index is used to calculate payment and the head of the responsored loans. I'm gonna let me bring it up here at the end of the season that we've had more insurance analysis in New York. There's another matter waiting. There is a reorganization here in the financial market, and we cannot remain the only nation in the world, possibly with a specially designed solution that has no parallels or types. There'll be plenty of time to discuss it later. I have mentioned the traffic lights and the influx seas, and I have allowed myself to mention just at the end of the Commission's comments on this report, of course, if they were made public. Also, the letter of the group that works on reviewing the law on the Secret Bank.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u109	Madam President. It was a nice trip by a dog. A senator, and I thank her very much even if I have missed the first minute or so. But I wanted to curious a little bit more about this idea of a 30 - year - old running average on the mortgage. It is an interesting point to consider, not just how we pull the mortgage into inflation, but on what basis we do it. It would be interesting to hear a little more from what happened. That's what a senator does. Now I have been very much in favour of the idea of taking out the housing team, most likely because of the possibility of comparing our inflation measurements with other countries so that comparison can be made. Then I'd like to ask. A senator whether he or she is not worried about it, now that the inflation pressure is changing, that taking out the housing team may have negative effects, i.e. the impact of inflation on the basis of what they are today and whether he considered the figures of that material. I haven't done that myself. Finally: With what result? A senator stayed within the limits of the two options that were considered in the report. I asked if he would be interested in considering alternatives to those mentioned, e.g. Clums around and down the streets.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u110	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I must now say that I view this as some kind of accident, that people should have fallen to calculate a three - month - long run on a three - month - long average when there are clear models, such as to make up from Sweden, which we compare to in so many ways. It is not as if a long journey between the Swedish economy and the Icelandic. Economics have a lot of cooperation between them and sharing information. In a way, I have to let myself be specific about the fact that this option has been on top and that it has been so long and unuttered. This is actually the first time it's drawn out, at least in such a clear way, how fast this change in the measured housing price - which is a very complete subject, how to do it - enter the index. There is evidence back in time that housing prices increase to the main policy to more than the general price. There are cases from the collapse that it turned around. The collapse is, naturally, a truly unique event. Maybe it's what it is. Of course, this should be kept in mind as a boy. A senator here brings up the matter, and I can totally agree with that. For other things, I'm going to let myself say that as I could about, maybe on that minute in my speech as a boy. A senator missed, it seems to me that if we talk about for a short time, we will have only many other options but we will strive to improve the system we live on as far as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u111	Madam President. Yeah, that was a good answer. I wonder, though, two things. On the one hand, this is about the inflation calculations. Now there's a 30-year-old average based on the fact that in Sweden, mortgages are usually 30 years old or about 30 years old, without me knowing if it would be right to think this through with other figures. The vast majority of domestic mortgages in Iceland are e.g. to 40 years. That could be a better standard. In turn, following this as it has been may well describe changes to the market, even though this does not describe the actual payment burden of each person's individual apartment buyer. With this option. Now it is a firm view to maintain the present system, but to have a good time. A senator will be interested in identifying and comparing the cost of the present system? Would he be interested in comparing the cost to that system, with growth pressure and high - interest policy, and all that at the expense of other options in relation to the possibilities? Likely, it is a huge cost for nationals to maintain any system, all systems have their pros and cons. But if that were so, it would be of interest. A senator making a diagnosis of this and obtains the cost of the present system as we do. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason spoke here earlier?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u112	Madam President. We're actually there, in the conversation about this housing team, that we're talking about it on a much deeper basis than how to calculate it. We're talking on that basis, at least On the basis of the importance he has here, that by having him inside, the Secret Bank is actually put on the pursuit of bubbles in a property market, especially a real estate market. There's a much deeper, heavier, and stronger reason to take it out as a reference to the shape and implementation of the money policy, than whether the running average is calculated for longer or less. Of course, anything would be better than the arrangement we have, for it is almost extreme in view of these foreign examples how this is done here. In terms of cost assessment, I find that a very interesting question. Senator. I explained in my speech and reviewed one more trip to the expense of my home because of these mortgages. The response? None. Report on the case? Nobody. No one has anything to say about this, and there's 118 billion people in this housing area. That's 118 billion. No response. So I may not be going to run into an estimate of some cost, such as coz. A senator talks about it. But to his own satisfaction, he has the need and the price of a fine reward.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u113	A respectable president. Thank you. A member of the body of elders who had a fine talk in many parts of the world and was delighted to listen to it. I cut it at the end of the day. The senator spoke of the deep sounds that would have been heard in the report when the report was discussed, for example. Orders help with the bank manager. Maybe I hadn't noticed well enough, but I didn't really do it by either side. In this report, when it comes to response to national goods and equipment proposed, a senator made a personal assessment of the suggestions presented in this report. It has been so well considered today, a respectable president, that it is precisely suggested to appoint two assistant bank managers and also to increase the number of members of the financing committee who make the final decision on the use of national economists. I wanted to have some. A senator to talk a little more about how he feels about these suggestions or whether there are other domestic precautions. A senator envisions that anyone he could bring in could be used. Sure, we've been talking here about the housing team and other things, but I might be focusing more on the national emissary.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u114	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. So I think that I have something, although indirectly speaking, answered the inquiry in my speech in the way that when it comes to the proliferation of men and making chess of something, it must be said that it would have strengthened that proposal if at the same time the result of the work of these groups was determined, I don't know which one of them has a heavier name, you get all the seriousness and, of course, when it comes to this. For me, it doesn't really mean very much whether this one should sit there or in the other place if it isn't explained exactly what it is in the experience or what it is for that which requires such changes. I'm not alone protesting these suggestions. I'm just letting me say that I think they might have been a little more established. But to me, this isn't the big thing in all of it. The big thing is what I put far more emphasis on my speech, it is this analysis of the two objectives that the Federal Bank is supposed to have, the national economist and the merit status of the committee and its logical support that the language should be weighed if these two factors were to arise.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u115	A respectable president. That is exactly what I read between the lines in a talk given. A senator made me feel comfortable getting clear what was being discussed. Of course, there are a number of interesting factors in this report and there are many ways of doing this as easily as possible. A senator knows considerably better than I do when it comes to these matters. But I do share his interest in the wording of the report. I'm not sure that some things that make me Spanish to see him having as much fun as they do. My new favourite word is simplistic, but I'm thinking of seagulling men, but I know more about them in economics. We've discussed the housing team and the uniform index price. Hv. A member of the council has made a fine impression on the previous talks at the council. Perhaps I was trying to discuss the index for myself. There are many paths to go. The European bill has a consistent index price and the rent price will be calculated. Hv. A senator named Norway and Sweden, and there are different methods, even between them, whether the rent costs are available or not. I just wanted to talk to you for a second. A senator of this and perhaps the fact that in an increasingly developed world, events in faraway lands can have more economic effects than what is happening here - we will, of course, collapse as well as other things - and where one of the most impetuous rulers can have a greater impact on this foundation or what comes out of it than what happens here. Is there a need, and is there any way to expand the foundation behind it? [[The president calls.]] Then maybe I'm not really looking at the mortgage, huh? A senator has been talking about him for a long time, but perhaps a more varied thought is needed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u116	Madam President. Thank you. His senator's excellent answer. I'll admit that I used modern technology to go through the document looking for the definition of the term simplisticity. I'm curious to know, "Who's the one who's going to defend himself?" [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I think I'm getting close to the meaning of the word. I have such a good chance to meet even the authors at a meeting. The Economic and Business Committee, before it's a long time and then you're going to have to have it all figured out. I'm very happy that you did. A senator ought to have got his favorite words there. There are fierce rivals: System Risk Committee. You wonder, " What path do I have to take to find my way in life? ' But for fun and fun, I learned in the week that you shouldn't be joking about this speaker. [[Up front.]] So we're going over to this serious thing. It's that uniform index. It's not that uniform. There is something called the European Union Habitat. Her name is in the foreign state of Eurostat. But there is no standard for this housing team in Europe. I once found my way so far as to get into what's called the National Haust Laboratory and sat a great and good meeting on index issues, so I think I have very clear and correct information in this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u117	Madam President. 200 billion, 200,000 million. K. which is twenty-five percent of the total budget, three times the amount of money we spend on the Buch vow agreements in Iclesave case would have cost us a total of five times the amount we spend on transportation a year. It's a little hard to get around these big numbers, but we can probably all agree that it's a very high number, 200 billion. This is the amount of money that costs us on the extra interest cost each year. Reaching the level of growth comparable to that of our neighbors could reduce the interest rates of government, business, and Icelandic homes by about 200 billion dollars. Every year. That's 570,000. each person every year. I'll think of some nice things to do for that money. An increase in the state funds as sensitive as 35 billion dollars. This year, which is equal to our total college contribution and is three times that of innovation or research per year. I'm sorry for this list, but I think it's safe to hit it with a solid that our dollar is a very expensive coin. It's expensive for the whole community, business and homes. But the interest gap is not the only cost at the dollar, the fluctuations it causes are also costlyly expensive. The Russian environment it creates for exporting companies surely costs a great deal, though it is difficult to measure. She's an extremely unstable coin. It is not eligible for international exchange, and what seems to be counted to it is the flexibility of it, or in simple terms: its ability and ability to fall when needed. But it is also forgotten in the discussion that a dollar will increase its eco-efficiency rather than balance it. It may be the simplest thing to look at it in this way: The crown is often very much strengthened during times of tension at the same time that we grow in financial strength. The crown thus amply amplifies the legal resources of the households, and the financial resources or the private consumption of the households are about half of our domestic product. At the same time that economic management would, in effect, harness that amount of money. Then, when the pressure goes back, it contracts, and the cost is dropped, often goes against the financial system's cooling, less pay raise, and less money. The amount of money that buys goes down further when it needs to be encouraged by the same amount of money. Hence, there is good reason to ask: What is the cost of the crown, and how well does it work for us? Therefore, I welcome this discussion of a report on the future of the Icelandic money policy that the last government requested. This is an important and long - term discussion, and perhaps especially now when we see that the dollar has just begun to fall again and has now fallen by about 10% in a relatively short time. It's really weird that we in this hall aren't constantly discussing this problem, this 200 billion bucks. an leakage really, if you could put it that way, as a home, a company, and the government are going to be before each year. We may argue over many considerably less expense groups than this one, even considerably irregularly. But 200 billion a year must be worth talking about here and looking for any way to make this improvement. So it amazed me at the time when the Council Bank returned a 600 - page report on our options for money, and she received no formal talk in a Senate Hall. We did nothing to her here, and it was amazing to think that we were at the same time stepping out of a perfect currency collapse. Unfortunately, in view of the government's declaration, it seems to me that it has no particular plans for the changes in this field. She has already declared that work will continue at the price of an inflation target, while a government service group will be assigned to examine various ways to do finesl. President. When we consider the results of today's money policy, we can look to two simple factors. When it comes to inflation and growth, how do we cope with our neighboring countries? This is not too complicated in the end, although money policy and discussion about it can certainly be complicated. The face - to - face picture is not very beautiful. From the year 2001 onward, inflation targets have averaged about 5% per year, with an average increase of 4% above the euro area. Once again, the 200 billion we pay extra. During the same period, our neighbors in Denmark, Sweden, and Finland have typically lived in 0.2% of growth differences in the euro and annual inflation range of 1,5◯2%. Granted, in recent times, inflation has been reduced, in fact, within the inflation target until recently, but thanks, not to the bite of the money policy, but to the boosting of the crown during this period. If we were to correct this concentration, which is considerable in 2016-2018, the inflation would have been about 4◯4.5% over the whole period, not the 2◯2.5% as it turned out. With the decrease of the dollar back in the economy, we are once again getting cold in the economy, and thanks to the murky flexibility of the crown, we are again experiencing cold economics, increasing inflation, and a decrease in money. The illness should not be particularly surprising. A real - life boost like those who have been here in recent years has never been long in Icelandic economic history, unfortunately. Again, this weakness will reduce the cost of domestics considerably and raise the cost of loans. Of course, based on already weak conditions, it is not unusual to expect that 35-3/40% of the people who are ill will look into prices, that we are looking at a rate of 3/45% in the months ahead. I'm sorry. This is reflected in the fact that faith in an individual and business success aims for inflation is gone, according to all the latest measurements. There was the credibility of the money policy over a few weeks, and in fact, the dollar began to get sick. Of course, it is of great interest in this context that at the same time as our success in the money management is as grimly poor as it turns out, the other North countries have been very successful in these products, each in their own way. Finners adopted euro, the Danir fixed the crews of the euro and Sweden, although they were to have their own money policy and their Swedish crowns, made a decision that they did not really have an independent money policy and simply set the interest level of the Swedish bank at the end of the European interest level. As a result, it becomes very clear in the excellent report that the choices may be fewer and more limited than we have considered, i.e. There is a choice between currency areas or some sort of fixed policy or simply independent money policy. These are the options we face, and the conclusion of the report is to choose our own money policy. If we discuss this report further, it is very good, even if it would not be without the summary of all the money policy publications we've tried in the past century or so. That's at least Ten different ways that we've blown off during this period. We have about A ten-year average money policy in this community. During the past three decades, we have been surmounting to seas, stock - free, free - flow prices, headmarks, and partial inflation targets. None of these things have really yielded what might be called acceptable results, since the produce is already more than 4% growth differences, which are still present today, with our neighbors, and about 5% of their daily inflation. The authors of this report draw ten main lessons from our sad history of money management, and I'm going to go down to three people who may share in common the importance of respecting the rules of money policy, regardless of what money policy will be chosen. First of all, it is very important that money policy has political support. It is vital that the government of the economy and the management of money by not adding to the expansion by an irresponsible expansion when the least of these things are to be done when, when we are in the uplift, but it has always been the case here. The government's financial policy over the years has been destroying the dollars that come in. There has never been any forethought, and it is clear in the policy of this government, that is a clearly declared goal of violating this rule. But responsible government policy is not enough. A general council must have a hand in the balance when options for money policy are on the table. This is not just the Council Bank's decision. This hall must be politically supported by the way it is chosen so that it will have both the trust and support from this same room when it is tested. Over the years, it has often been proved that this is a time when money policy is being criticized. Second, a labour market stability is the foundation of prices. This is something we must simply face the fact that we must make our own. Governments are not to be divided by the way the workforce is worked out or about what is written, but when we repeatedly negotiate in a labour market about two to three times the pay raise when compared to our neighbors, we also have to face the fact that we have an obvious political problem in a labour market. That is really what comes out of all proposals, every consideration in this report, and more. We are unable to improve our money policy, make needed improvements, without reforming the labour market, and in the federal markets. Third, the payment is the balance of an even-ass Icelandic economy. This may be what matters in the end. No matter what money policy we have, we've got a tinyly unstable coin, and we're totally sold to or from the country. We have very little to say in the end what foreign investors think of us, whether they choose to invest here or flee. But that in the context of the fact that we cannot maintain much interest in our neighbors is different from that of a currency head. They can already be the influx head, or even the efflux head, which will be our future with independent currency and independent money policy. It is fine for us to understand clearly the options. But a currency head in my mind is just not an option. They're not the preferred way to the economy. They are a terrible way in an open international economy, in which we want to take advantage of the opportunity for future innovations, technological developments, and any opportunities that may arise for us. That's why I think we need to take it very seriously when these choices are set for us. Reports provide several technical reforms for the current money policy, which, however, will remain in the basis of independent money policy with inflation targets. Many of them are undoubtedly improved, such as the Shared Bank and UNEP, the increased use of national eco-efficiency, and the inflation goals will be used for the index price of consumers without housing but at the same time made changes with the aim of increasing the transparency and visuality of the money policy. All of this is of no doubt good. That's not the essence, however, Mr. President. Money policy would continue to be used on the basis of one of the smallest and most unstable coins in the world. All our efforts to use it have failed at huge expense for homes and businesses in the country, and it is good to remember that most of the largest export companies have actually chosen from the same coin that many admire. Most of the largest fishing grounds are in euros. It is also worth remembering that we are the only nation with fewer than 2 million people who have tried to run independent money policy with their own currency. The other 84 have chosen other ways. There may be some message involved in the simple fact. This experiment is simply a fact of experience, and it is a matter of survival. Sad to say, the authors were not authorized to discuss the most practical and best option of existing money policy, which is the uptake of euro through involvement in the European Union. Then, in the government, the Independence Party, our team of fellow workers did not have the courage to face that comparison, possibly out of fear that it simply proved to be the most reasonable and most practical for the nation. We live in annual interest costs of up to 200 billion dollars. In addition, compared with our neighboring countries and one of the most swinging economys in the Western world, whether viewed in the world, inflation, economic growth, or employment levels. This is what we need to sort out. Is it not the time to look at all the practical advantages to achieve this instability and to create Icelandic homes and businesses comparable to the basis for good lifestyles that our neighbors in Europe enjoy? Jónas H. Haralz, who doubtless is one of the most influential economistst in the 20th century, discussed in a study of Iceland's Science Association in April 2009 about Iceland's losses in currency. He discussed how long and how many times we had been hesitant and held back from participating in international currency activities throughout the years to ensure us a practical international coin, now the last euro. [[The president calls.]] Jónas's last words in this business, I make mine, with president's permission: '-I honestly think it's often and long enough. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u118	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for his speech. The senator is well - acquainted with the local labour market and is well acquainted with it for his former employment. He talked only about agreements and how it had repeatedly happened that contracts in a job market had actually exceeded the expectations we had for interest at any given time. And this is as fine as it is, in fact, tore up the report and exactly what the senator says in view of it. But there is one thing that the senator did not establish in the report, and there is much other way in which our neighboring nations have been involved. In fact, the report says that some of them have just set limits on how the cake has been divided - this is the way the gap between certain groups in the community should be in terms of pay and otherwise, and then we raise the pay afterwards. Is the senator talking about us doing something like that in Iceland, i.e. that we simply chase back into the answer and say: Here the wages of workers are to be, and many of them are to be paid by other classes, and that's where we're staying? Is the senator speaking for this?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u119	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. No, in itself I'm not saying that. But if the labour market decided to negotiate such heels, it would be the entire labour market to negotiate it. There are two things worth keeping in mind. I think we talk very often about the Norwegian labour market being free of all the problems we are dealing with here, but they're all the same. There, they've just been talking about ways to solve them. Of course, the conflict between individual groups in the Norwegian labour market on whether the pay period is relative, whether this group is proportional to another. It's a constant conflict. In the end, however, they have united in the methodology to keep the overall pay change within the framework consistent with long-term prices and that all countries have compatible, whether in Norway, Sweden, Denmark, or Finland. But you're right about what you're talking about. A member of the body that this workforce is usually a source of instability. We can, for example. no effort was made to increase the lowest salary in particular unless the higher salary has approved it. Then I'm not talking about groups that were previously decided by a collective board or the head of the labour market, but primarily by the next groups above, the intermediate groups, the academics, the traders, etc. This is usually the conflict that is taking place. Of course, if high on the lowest wage, it is absolutely essential that the groups above accept less loads. This may be the root cause of the problem. This is something that the labor movement even has to negotiate with one another. But this is the very subject of the person. I do not comment that the workers or labor groups have a fixed policy and change it from time to time. [[The president calls.]] The key point is that the total pay raise should be within this national framework.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u120	President. I thank the senator for the answer. The Senator mentioned in his talk that a dollar is a coin and the Icelandic economy is small, and he is absolutely right. That's it. It's always been that way. As long as we live in this country, we'll still have a small economy, it'll probably not change anything. Nevertheless, whether for the sake of or in spite of the poor economic system, whether in the case of the economy or in spite of the economy, it is true that there have probably been few communities, at least In Europe, further progress in the 20th century, or a larger leap from misery and misery, we should not just say that, to prosperity. And it was the same men who controlled - those men back then, all of them men - with this blessed crown, with this coin, and with this national soul behind them, and yet this result. Is the senator saying that we had achieved much better results and much earlier if from the beginning we had been using another coin? Coming back to the other things he said, they were 84 nations that were bigger than Iceland but don't have their own coins, I think he said it somehow, - less than 2 million, yes. [[Take it up to: Less than 2 million.]] In view of that economy, how does the Icelandic economy arrange for economic growth, prosperity, and development during the 20th century?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u121	Madam President. Thank you. A senator responds to his second. Briefly answer a question. A senator, about whether we had done better with another coin, is yes. I'm pretty convinced of that. I think our achievements are in spite of the crown, but not because of the crown, and I think that we greatly underestimated the value of our economy, for our professional life, for our homes. The balance of prices and walkability is of utmost importance. It is helpful to note that although we have achieved remarkable results in the past century or so, it is primarily in resource - related articles. We've been able to build some of the employment sectors that are somehow chained to our land base. Another factor is that we have lost our hands over the years, that humans have simply chosen to operate elsewhere. We have, for example. there were no remarkable successes in mind and technology, although we have many very good companies there. In general, we could have done much better, especially with the fact that we are an exceptionally intelligent people. There's some kind of pioneers, I think, who over the centuries have shown themselves over and over and maybe explain why we're so damn good at dealing with all these swings. But I have no doubt that if we had lived in a constant coin and a lower interest level, we would have made a lot better. And it's good to remember, when we compare ourselves with our neighboring countries, especially when the comparison is very practical today, that there are probably a small number of northern nations that have advanced as often as many in the North countries in terms of living and Iceland. But we've always lost them when they're beating in the rocks. It may be nice not to forget. I think this is worth keeping in mind when we consider the overall benefits of our blessed crown and how we might fare with other and constant coins. With regard to the second question, why? At that time, these smaller nations differ greatly in their success. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But it's nice to think of a country like Luxembourg, who's lived in a fixed gang, I think, from 1970 or there, and it looks pretty good to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u122	Madam President. We will discuss a report on the future of Icelandic money policy. At the beginning of my speech, I would like to state that I am well pleased with this report. There's a lot of good things in it. However, it is clear, as has been seen in the case of more members of Congress, that the authors had relatively limited roles, were, in fact, comparing two ways, and perhaps the report was limited in that respect. Then, as noted in the September 2012 issue of more members of Congress, it was just a major report, let's say, from the Secret Bank on Iceland's options in currency. In this regard, there is no special reason to go back to discussing where we would consider that report in this discussion. Let us not go in any way, however, that it was a requirement when this report was initiated on the basis of certain government groups at that time, a restoration if I recall correctly, that the currency council would be considered specifically. In part, the report may have been limited to some of the reasons. Well, that's just the way it is. In fact, the report is widely tore up why currency advice is not really the way to a economy like Iceland. I'm glad we've got it figured out by then. Nevertheless, several members of the panels in their talks today have suggested that this might be possible, and they are often talking about being in a currency union or some fixed currency business with any other nation. But the case is that it is not really quite different from being in a currency scheme. We would, at least, be at least. Part of the economy we have today. The proposals of this report are, as it has been repeatedly noted, for today's 11th day, and are a brilliant number of each. In a matter of what? A panel of 5 has been proposed to be listed, which is expected to carry on with the inflation goal of 2 to 6.5%, but to take out the housing team. I hear a lot of senators say they're happy, and it's brilliant. I think the press is a good reason why it should be. Report authors in Proposition 7a. about one of the caution tools, the economy we're supposed to have, i.e. the influx disorders. We've only discussed today that without the possibility of such a device, it can be difficult to have a balanced economy in a small currency system like Iceland. We see this as we walk along, and we talked only about whether it would be wise to relax only on the influx oceans now to try to strengthen the walk or the stabilist. What I find most interesting in this report, however, is that the main thing is, not which way we go, but that we try to have a system of play, try to comply with the rules we have decided together to follow. Let us not repeatedly become involved in the temptation to jump and respond by some means. We've tried it repeatedly. In fact, the report in the history of the Management Board in 1918 and indeed only before and how men have repeatedly fallen into the temptation to react with someone, we should say, a stunning solution. Such things are even spoken of in campaigns and other matters. Maybe it's the main thing. If we are to maintain stability in the Icelandic economy, we need to follow the rules. That is where national economic administration is extremely important. That we, who live here and choose the government, we accept the need to comply with some rules. I know that Icelanders are not groups of people who are particularly excited for applying all the rules. We're a terrible fixer. Some people think it's a very adorable national trait. It's gonna work out. But this may not be especially appropriate when we are talking about such phenomena as economic management, especially when we consider the economic management in this context and the impact it has on the status of the households and on the condition of the nation itself. Then it's gonna be a really bad thing to do, let's say. Specialized elements in the Icelandic economy are traced a little in the report and repeatedly entered into our resource drive. In fact, according to one report, in such an economy, it can be very difficult, especially if it is small, to attach to another economy, e.g. It's a bigger coin range. That is a major reason why they refuse to use coins. The swing in our economy doesn't necessarily have to run away with the poles in the big economy. That's why it can be reversed. One of the projects is that we create a measure of confidence in the economy, agree on rules, agree on how we should do this, and try gradually to build up the necessary trust. This was only shown in my language in conversation earlier than that. paritaprevir The arrangement taken by Þorsteinn Víglundsson in many parts of the North. At least in some places, it has just been decided that these are the rules, and they intend to work in this model. The northern countries are some with independent coins, some with euro and some with ◯evru light-Howard, like Danir, with a Danish crown tied to the euro. I'm fine with that. It will be fun to discuss this report and further responses to it on the Economic and Business Committee, particularly to discuss this domestic authority which I don't feel has been discussed enough here, e.g. the situation in the Icelandic economy that we have a huge pension fund in the Icelandic context that is now holding on to about 4,000 billion possessions. It's five times bigger than the currency account, for example. I would like to discuss more on how this will be affected by the Fund and whether we will ever reach the position of having a trust fund comparable to that of the Norwegians and the balance system that such a fund can be. I also look forward to discussing more on the economic and business committee the factors that are involved in growth that I think are in the Icelandic economy, which I often feel are slightly overlooked when we discuss matters at the council Hall. [[The president calls.]] I look forward to discussing this matter further, and I know that members of Congress will continue to be excited to discuss this report.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u123	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Prime Minister for the presentation here and anyone who's been brought up here for a really fun conversation. The future of Icelandic money policy is in itself an excellent introduction to the discussion and a contribution from the University of Lunda to my particular attention. It describes the choices made by Icelanders and raises the question: Why Malmö, where the population in Iceland is the number of people like Iceland, should have its own currency. The scholar concludes that Malmö should not have his own currency. I, like others who have spoken here, find a fundamental flaw in the report, where the only option remains for Iceland's currency. As we have seen, there is a gap between these views here in this hall. I think it's a strange approach in view of my view that the currency itself is the elephant in the room. On the other hand, I would like to take it into consideration, making it clear that the authors are working hard to find practical solutions so that they can continue working with the amount of currency that is worth. Overall, these are good suggestions, but they do not attack the problem, although they can all be managed as soon as we take other questions about whether other options need to be considered. Let me refer to a paragraph on page 5. 36, with President's permission: ▪ Iceland has many characteristics that make it difficult for money management to cope with. The economy is tiny. Export work is monotonous and fluctuated. In the majority of financial markets, only a limited number of sellers dominate the prices. Not only is the memory system small but it is in the middle of two of the world's largest coin domains - dollar and euro - which must make the independent financial management of an extremely difficult subject. Now, apparently, sailing into a period that will in some respects be marked by a freefall, we know it too, with the price of all imported goods, as we know it. The fall of the crown always goes straight into the prices and the consumers pay. With President's permission, it's been a long day. I would like to ask the generals this question: What do the cities of Florence in Italy, Brno in the Czech Republic, and Las Palmas in Spain have in common? Does anyone know? Their population is about The same as many people in Iceland. I don't have to say that none of them have their own currency. Our currency is the least independent currency in the world, and it is extremely unstable. He regularly dives, both because of national influence and because of external influences that are very damaging to everyone living in Iceland. The crown will also swing and be weak when the Icelandic government makes mistakes, and we all make mistakes. With a constant currency, Icelandic homes could save tens of thousands of dollars each month, enjoying life spans comparable to those of the other northern countries. We need to talk about other options and stop bleeding to the public every time the dollar dips. A government government that protects the crown and refuses to talk about other options - I feel like she's taking a stand against the public at the same time. V.E.G. The government is pleased to discuss the importance of stability, where we all agree. In this context, that public wages can't be raised at all, we don't all agree. If she is so passive when the dollar falls and the votes of the public are spoiled, she will fall to the highest level of credibility. Governments at the same time. A steady currency is not just important for the homes of the country. A key requirement for building up an enterprise is a stable environment. Many Icelandic companies have had to engage in divination in a currency market, which is certainly not their nuclear activity, to ensure that they are paid for money swings. There are smaller Icelandic companies, which are forced to finance themselves through Icelandic banks, much worse than larger companies and corporations, most of which have long taken up other coins. You see, bigger companies have been able to finance themselves through banks abroad, thus obtain new and better interests than smaller companies. The competitive environment is this rough, and the small companies have to pay the stress for the currency risks of the crown. Whether we have a company that's trying to get the job done or a person dreaming of getting his own apartment and finally getting off a lease, we are rich. During the last few years, as it has been, the export branches slowly with their bites across the vast majority of people of the country earn their income in foreign currency. During the endless Russian ride of the Crown, new exports are also very difficult to establish. This is a bit contradictory or, as they say, with president's permission: You can't really win. In 2016 alone, more than 230 Icelandic companies went into the second currency of the Icelandic crown. Most of them were fishing companies, tourism, and some traditions. Eran was the currency selected by most of them. This group of companies include airlines, aluminum corrosion, and large manufacturing companies. And it's certainly a good idea for these companies to do this, as long as they can, that's where they get rid of the swings of the Icelandic crown. Do we really want to do this, however, that the interests of big companies and smaller companies and public people do not work together? It is not justified, I think, that the majority of Icelandic companies and the general public have to live with the crown and its co-fish, the high growth and the insurance and the regular drop of a dollar that is going directly into the prices of necessities, because we are very dependent on the import. In the meantime, we may all be on the same boat, but we are certainly not calming him in the same direction. Greater nations with stable currency have seen advantages in a larger currency. In the United States, people still stubbornly struggle with the shallowness of their hair interest and insurance insurance insurance. The solution seems to be in the new currency, and in this case the vast majority of experts recommend euro. You see, there are no soft landings in the Icelandic economy. The crown's walk directly affects economic growth, inflation, growth, tax pay, commercial power, and personal consumption. We call for economic stability where the well - being of the public is not placed in the second place. Why should the cities of Malmö, Florence, Brno, and Las Palmas have their own currency? The short answer is that they should have nothing of their own currency. So I think it's interesting why Iceland, who has the same population as these fine cities, has to have its own currency. What effect does talking with currency laws have on our sovereignty? I want to challenge the highest. Governments to explore other means of currency such as, for example, The 2012 National Bank report, and it's okay to resume and continue, but do not assume that a dollar is the only solution to Iceland's financial affairs. Then I promise I won't go anywhere on that premeditated basis but I promise that the euro is the only solution to Iceland's financial affairs, although I feel it certainly is. If we were all willing to have an open mind, I think that everyone would be better. Responsible management includes: in not deciding in advance what the only right solution is and then putting all its power to convince everyone else that it is the only right solution. It would be responsible for the government to be ready to search and learn, to listen to other ideas other than its own, and then to reach mutual conclusions that would benefit everyone, whether public, professional, or government. One of our biggest subjects is to build trust in society; trust between government and public; trust between public and public; trust between public and professional life. For this to be possible, we must first understand that public interests, employment, and government interests need and go together. We're all on the same boat, and we have to calm him down in the same direction. I agree with what. paritaprevir Oddný, Víglundsson's Harðardóttir Daughter and Þorsteinn, shall consider further options. We have common interests as a community, and I suggest that we put them first and consider something else.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u124	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. I'm just wondering what he said about refusing to discuss other options that I think are a little strange, I have to confess. I don't know any better than we've been discussing other options and are actually doing it all the time. It may be possible to recall, though it has been noted several times today that the letter and the basis for this precise report come from the last government. It was an assignment for this committee to consider. If there is anything wrong with considering how that letter was then, perhaps the criticism would be more direct to the then government and including the restoration that has so far not refused to discuss the film of Euro. I'd like to talk to you too. A senator who said here, perhaps by a certain scavenger, that it was her personal opinion that the euro was the only answer, whether it was the answer. There's nothing to worry about. Now I'm not talking about it being the right solution. I just want to hear it. A senator will discuss whether he or she has any concerns, and that will be the solution. I ask because of the fact that our economy, as we have discussed before by other members of the council, may not always be the same rhythm as a bigger economy. What, then, would our precautions be when they come economically low? They come, whether we are in large economy or not. What might be the tools we might have for having an influence, other than lowering ourselves to pay expenses and public expenses?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u125	A respectable president. Thank you. Excuse me. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'm still learning the rules. I have no doubt that we will find ways to use caution tools. As I mentioned, the benefits discussed in the report are good, but they are based only on that letter as well as on it. A senator also mentioned, there are no other options. That's what I'm criticizing, that there really shouldn't be on the table any idea of expanding this subject a little more. But I have no doubt that even if we are part of a bigger currency union, we can be used with caution, just as others do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u126	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. I think the debate over the European Union now is due to a number of members of the United States of America. I feel like becoming a member of the European Union is somehow a side product of recording euro. It's like involvement in the European Union is just one side of it and it's the euro that's the main thing. There's a new tone I think I can tell, but it's me, like, a lot of other things in this life. But the reason I specifically ask about these devices is that this is a real problem and we have to have answered these questions to all, not just that we have a solution. You can point out that, because I specifically talked about the level of employment, we have the highest job participation in all the countries of the European Union. It is a fact that we should respect and ask ourselves, asking ourselves, asking whether it will change if we change something, for example. ... byevoracope. We have a high standard of living here. If it has anything to do with this, I don't know, but this is something we have to answer. We have to be ready to ask, What's going to happen? I was able to discuss these matters, I was visiting the European Union, writing a considerable deal on that visit, and was able to discuss euro affairs, a recording of euro without involvement in the European Union. It was a very clear message from the European Union that something was not in their mind. I wrote to the other person, with the permission of the president: 'We don't like it'. This is precisely because there were no national eco-weapon devices, no means to cope with economic fluctuations other than reducing the pay paid cost to people, or to negotiate a decrease in wages, and to cut down public expenses. [[The president calls.]] If we're part of this bigger coin range, we're talking about involvement in the European Union. [[The president calls.]] And then we should just discuss it, not the film of Euro.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u127	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question. That's exactly what we're supposed to talk about. I like it. A senator has met that nail on his head. We need to discuss such options as my speech, but we do not have them on the table. We should not give ourselves in advance that one conclusion is just before we sit at the table and start writing. I hear you're being dignified. A senator has a lot of experience in being in the European Union, and he enjoys it. But we're part of the European Economic Area, and the majority of the laws, our business and the laws we're applying to the European Economic Area, and we're already quite adapted to this situation. Our largest business countries are on opposite sides of us, in the European Union quite many and in Europe, though quite many. So I think if it were chosen, it wouldn't be a very dramatic thing for the economy to adapt to it. That would have to be done, but there are pros and cons, I don't doubt it. I don't have all the solutions on what it's like to solve it in advance, but you don't solve any problems except sit down at the table to negotiate it and to see what's going on. We can cook this all the way to the end of the night, but this is what I think.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u128	Mr. President. I'm gonna let myself hit a little different than I've been in this discussion by going a little wider and broad in the fields than so far. The extent to which economics can be considered political is debated. This is different from geology, for example. I believe most of it is political, to the core, and if not, it would rarely be debated about the economic issues and where we would classify the money policy book, reevaluation, political issues. That's a question. How do our views on her political, grossly on her left, right? Is that enough or is it close enough, then we need to predict ismana, or our policies, you know, keynesian, knicker, or Marxismann, or what one? I'm not going to hide the contents of this book and put out solutions. I don't have enough education, nor do I have intellectual knowledge. Although I'm here tagged as a senator or a senator over his head, I'm not in the position to do so, but that is exactly what it means in the Council that we have different knowledge and differences of basic ideals and not all of us. I'm going to do a few words about the big lines, about the box, about the system with a big k-is about the economy and talking about the world's main economic system, capitalist, which is rarely heard to be called in the World Congress. Yes, it is as if everyone knows that this economy is subject to small and large nations as well as the superpowers, three to four, no matter what our noses. This adds up to EU economic legislation, alliances in Asia, South America, etc. I'm not going to judge any of their benefits in this context. But I thought this morning in front of the 245 - page publication and began to think, " Will Greenland talk about money policy like us? ' Or Chinese people, will they discuss money policy as we do on the right, left? Or are they fully involved in an internal discussion of money policy on the basis of it? Mr. President. I think it's an interesting story. Half the 19th century, the 20th century, the 21st century, is the time of capitalism primarily. And it is possible to look back on the colonial period, which provided the basis for the wealth of the main industrialized nations and some smaller nations as well. The Great Wars, Between Wars in Some States and then the attempt to overthrow capitalism in several opposing states and in which there is now a blundering capitalist economic system with power and a new upper class. We can end up with a novelistic, liberalismist who I would like to claim was rather a sad success, since the Devil Warren Buffett took the word in his mouth that the kind of economic policy is a mass - destruction tool. A few words about the inner engine in capitalism. It's a change of possession. There are no longer domestic enthusiasts, say in Sweden, who have much of the Swedish economy. They only have 10%. The rest are funds and international companies. This is a change. Another about the internal mechanic. There is constant economic growth in a world where resources are limited. Still another one. Cross-border expansion. And another thing. Hard economic rhythms where supply, demand, overinvestment, gang pressure, and other factors create fluctuations that are very difficult for all, except perhaps some investors. We can then debate the results of all of this. To me, there is no particular bright picture in this frame that I mentioned earlier. Admittedly, the results vary from country to country. We can say and guess that there is an excellent average impact in 20 to30% of lands, but at the same time it is a conclusive fact on a global scale that the rich have grown richer and the poor have become poorer. That may be the big judgment we have to face in 250 years, i.e. 250 years of the history of this system. In fact, they can be displeased with it and debate over whether the film I film is the right one or if we should be happy that it is. Whatever the case, this is in my opinion of an active, poor, money policy. Money policy in Iceland, of course, is about discussion and policy and approval. That's what we're here for. So we're going to go outside to make life more bearable for low and average lovers in Iceland. That's why I can stand here, get involved in a government community or be a government opponent because that's our job. This money policy is marked by the economy we live in. Then, in this context, i.e. to climate, Mr. President. I've probably said little that counts in front of Congress. The facts on climate are not true either. We do know, however, that when the facts about global warming came up and they avoided discussion about causes and reactions or even opposed the brakes in the world, the main opponents of capitalism in the world were at a time. To date, we still see and do not have to go west or even east to see and hear. Happily, though, times have changed, and a great many capitalists recognize the problem and want to save themselves and the economy, which, of course, is human nature and should be welcomed. In the face of the need to prevent and reverse excessive warming, the capitalism is certainly over the capital, knowledge, and functionality, I'm going to use that word, but at the same time, there are two built-in contradictions that I'm going to explain. First of all, continuous pressure on economic growth and economic growth, growth in economy, increase in economic growth, etc. Second, steady pressure on earth's limited resources. We're now seven billion and we'll be 10 to 11. This pressure is far beyond that increase. Many economists have made such a statement. This is, of course, political economics, and it is political economists that view things the way I am trying to explain. The main doctrine is: Classical, international, concompressed, and profit - powered capitalism is not an economic device or a frame that will be exposed to the environmental problems in the long run. To that end, new criteria, second and new understanding and a new definition of economic growth, a new view of resource use, and, above all, full recycling of all major crops produced by the earth are required. I'm not going to hide how to solve such a challenge to explain how this is going to be done or how it's going to be resolved or what terms will eventually be given, but it reminds me that money policy in Iceland truly reflects the core and deep problems of the dominant economy. Around it we have a long-term discussion, perhaps a debate about a new economy suitable for a sustainable life that is the key to the future. We must always look for a view across the forest beyond the unique trees. That's what I had a little think about.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u129	Mr. President. I'm gonna start by thanking you. A senator for a very beautiful and good mind. This was a very interesting introduction into these discussions and comments, which we may want to review more frequently in such discussions. Hv. A senator mentioned the financial system in China. Of course, China is much bigger than Iceland, but like Iceland, we live in a lot of exporting economys and some lessons we might learn from Chinese people. I've been tracking the development of the renminbi account for quite some time because it's just interesting how the Chinese have conducted their money policy. They spent a very long time with renminbi attached to American dollars, but they have recently had a fleet held by the Chinese bank, despite the fact that they are always surging themselves against a mix of American dollars and euro. A new bank manager is now taken in China by Yi Gang. It will be interesting to see how speech develops over time, how it replaces its predecessor. But I thought it was a good reason to mention this because, of course, we should look to all the countries around us when we discuss these matters. We do well to consider how to do things well and to learn from as many people as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u130	Mr. President. I appreciate that answer. And China, well, it is. The export economy, yes, indeed. But it may be China's problem that there is a economy that replaced a manual economy, which, in turn, is some kind of highest-level governmentism, which continues to be handled. They are successful, both in domestic and export production, in the process of strict implementation, even in ideas, and in using all kinds of means to achieve their targets, including. To enter the economy of other countries with all kinds of offers. The Lexias may be some for us, but the big problem may be that we're small with a coin, they're becoming one of the world's largest economys with a coin that weighs a little more than our dollar. I can't imagine what lessons are there. The cost of the people of China has to pay for this export giant is not elegant, with regard to human rights and so on. I have had the option of traveling in remote provinces in China, both Xinjiang and Tibet, apart from being in Peking. At least, considering the resource politics, environmental politics, and human rights in much of China, we would take that lesson only as negative.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u131	Mr. President. I can agree with some of these things, but I don't know if the money policy like that is necessarily something to relate to human rights. If it is, I think it needs a little more. But it's the case right there, like what's wrong. A senator, despite his powerful currency, notes an enormous economy to connect it in praxize with two other very large currency to achieve a fixed stability in the price of his exporters. As a result, exactly because there is a large influx of dollars and euros in China, China, the Chinese have been able to build a currency reserve that reminds me of being around 3,000 billion dollars, or 3,000 billion dollars, if I'm not using the wrong number. It's a tremendous supply of currency, and you could imagine that a similar thing could be done in Iceland if we had a stable gang. When things are going well and we're moving out, we could be collecting into the cable so that we can rather strike the fluctuations further down the road. I sincerely hope that one such political filter can be maintained without having to go into the most extreme human rights crisis because it should not be necessary. Other countries have followed a similar course, as I have traced to this day, without having a disastrous human rights policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u132	Mr. President. Thanks again. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthyr's for those answers. Money policy, human rights. I can't hear any more of the conversation here than people connect it. We may not have to talk about human rights in ourselves but about living conditions. And how should we understand economic conditions from human rights? I think it's very difficult. I think that money policy, when talking about budgets, about financial programmes, about how to keep the march steady, etc., certainly has to do with economic issues that are once again linked to human rights. But there may be some misunderstandings in my life, but I have always claimed that economic and human rights are inseparably involved in each community. But when it comes to the economic link of time. One senator mentioned, paying the crown to another currency or something in that direction, I simply have to admit that I lack knowledge there. As a real scientist or a geological scientist, or what I can call myself, I don't have the perspective on all the motors and all the connections in the economy that I can see that it's either right or wrong, or that I can see that the Chinese case is the proof that the real world of Iceland can use. I'm not going to object for anything. Instead, a senator said that I was incompetent to pass any judgment on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u133	A respectable president. It's a comprehensive report, and I'm gonna try and kill on a few things. The report says that inflation goals can succeed. It suggests, by permission of the President: ▪ During the last four to five years, meeting local prices has been very effective. This has resulted in a huge gain for the European public with a large increase in money gain, while the general interest level has dropped. It is very important that these results be followed. Yes, I can totally agree with this in that this level of inflation has been easy to maintain in certain easy situations. Tolls are being taken down here and gang strength has been made. This is not a sustainable situation, self-sustaining events that we can responsibly rely on. We can't take down more tolls, something more, but not forever. We may not be able to rely on walking to gain strength and support for other currency forever but on the future. It is in such a situation that it is very easy to maintain inflation targets when external circumstances help. However, when it becomes difficult, as it is now, to fall and flow, as the news of last night's VOLV reports of rising prices to the economy, and then we are back in the same old world, some sort of inflation where there is no quick solution that can get us out of the inflation. But these are the characteristics of this insurance community that we live in, in which the index price is a measuring device for how GDP works. But because we have insurance on various things in society, including By the chance, I don't talk about loans, which are exactly measured by the index, that when prices rise, the index will increase the price that increases the index, etc. It's a vicious circle of inflation in which we fall. In addition, during the past five years, it has been reported to have been a significant increase in salary of about 8% per year. Of course, you would like to ask: " To whom has this increase slipped? It's not enough just to talk about the average in this case. Clearly, various groups have been left out. As the tides begin to decline, this certainly has a much worse effect on those who have not reached the level of power mentioned here as being extremely good at all. On page 145 of this report, we compare the methods of the Habitat to the cost of its own housing and compares with Sweden and Canada. In Sweden this is calculated from the past 30 years, running the average real estate value over the past 30 years, and in Canada during the past 25 years. In Iceland? The last three months. That means that when there are any changes in a shelter price in Iceland, they immediately enter the index. They're affecting the moment. In Sweden and Canada, they do not. An increase over three months for 30 years or 25 years is minor. The cost is very slightly reduced when someone shoots up or down. However, we always take the dip, or we always take the jump, in either direction, just about as soon as it happens. This is naturally a very good way to have the index price very accurate at any time, but to use it as a measuring device to see how the value in the country is developing, in order to influence the measuring device, it destroys the metering device. It's like using a inches bag to measure what's a meter, but it always grows as soon as you're measuring. It's not working. One of the most apparent defects in this report is the lack of all available options, such as the benefits. The World Bank Fund offers options for money policy. It is remarkable that, of all the advantages, if all of them are taken aside and some two viewed, one of the two are immediately dismissed, and really just the present option is considered. And not from any cost analysis or compared to the others, who might tell us that this was the best option, but it is that it seems to be such a major historical analysis and indirect comparison, such as. In this case with Sweden and Canada, where the difference is being shown, not what the consequences are, and what cost are we experiencing from the money policy we have now, considering the other policy. In a speech earlier today, the problem arose. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason's right to say that there's no money at all, they all cost something. Not all costs are right. That is, in effect, a basic cost to all these possibilities. One of these costs has the lowest cost for us in Iceland, for the circumstances we have here. In this way it is cheaper than all the other advantages, and in this way it is actually free of charge from expensive advantages. If we set the basic cost, there is no extra cost in terms of the expensive cost. After all, when it comes to choosing which money policy we're going to follow, it's really important, because everyone here is involved, and everyone realizes that the benefits and weaknesses are on their own. Each option may not work exactly the same in all countries, depending on the circumstances, etc. The important thing is that we know who these qualities are and especially what the faults are so that we can work against them effectively. For some reason, although we have had this money policy for quite a few years and should know the flaws of it, we do not succeed in preventing the failings from occurring with the cost of land and nation. I think the most serious problem with this report is that there is not enough analysis, unless I've missed it, it's a lot of pages, and we didn't have too much time to read it over, there's not a good analysis of what we're supposed to be doing to prevent the concretes that we're going to do over and over again. It has been suggested that we are just helping to overcome the problem of today's financial policies with the budget that we are considering in these days, that we are useful in resisting the advice to follow in order to prevent the difficulties from occurring. There is an interesting view of himself and something we should include in the budget and get a closer analysis. But this is, I think, a fine start. It's just about ten other options or something like that, so I look forward to seeing the rest.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u134	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Of course, it is an old story and a new one that when we discuss a report, we often discuss what the report is not about, but the person who would like to have been discussed in it. I don't think there's anything out of it, it's just normal, and I've been in that situation with various issues. But I'm still going to try to stick to this report in my opponent. Hv. A senator said that it was easy over the past few years to maintain an inflation aim, but he has pale, or so I understood, and it becomes more difficult to cope with the years to come. I'm asking why. A senator does not agree with me that setting inflation goals and pursuing them is, therefore, even more important. I wasn't quite sure which way to go. A senator was saying these comments and wants to know more about whether he feels that it is not important to have a very clear goal at the time. I can see as one of the main elements of this report having inflation goals.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u135	A respectable president. Thank you so much. So the report does not cover all the activities assigned to it according to the assignment given to the group, such as this in order to be perfectly clear. In terms of the importance of setting inflation targets, it is natural that we have money policy. We choose to have that course, or, as is said here: Following the rules is more important than the game selected. I don't completely agree with it because it also matters that game is selected. When a game is selected, it must, of course, follow the rules. Selecting one game and playing by some other rules is a dead issue. Of course, if we choose the game in which we are going to pursue an inflation goal, we need to set inflation goals, but as I pointed out, it seems that there is not necessarily any advice to follow the money policy in the financial bill we discuss. The tips we receive are that there's a bullshit inflation pressure, huge, and none of our clients have actually said, "This bill is going to reduce that pressure. " Then I ask, " Yes, it's important to set inflation goals if you choose the game, but why don't you apply it? '
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u136	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. At least I think I'm something closer to what's wrong. A senator was referring to his speech. If anything, it's okay. A senator believes that, as I understood, there is a different way of being a more suitable economy than it is being used. I'll admit that as more members of the council have established, money policy is not the reason I first went into politics, but it's certainly one of the things you have to dive in and try to put yourself in. While changing to other basic points, it is, of course, hanging on how to cope with economic management how to do other things in the community. That's why I'd like to ask. A senator on a point I don't think that much was discussed today, but that is a recommendation of ten in the report, that the Secret Bank contributes to increasing education on money policy and the value of the inflation target to improve public understanding. New Zealand's experience on this subject and how it is used. I'd like to ask you what. A senator would agree with me that if we were to make it a big point of our lives, we would definitely improve all the discussions at the General Assembly in the future. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u137	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen on timelines.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u138	A respectable president. That's a very good question. Thank you. Just to the first part of the question, if I think there's anything more convenient. Like what? paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson came by earlier we're not all experts and we just can't be, it's such a huge variety of scenarios. So we must rely on experts who do not have all the possibilities. Shall I say that other possibilities are better? I can do it in the way that, as I mentioned earlier, to say that even though we are supposed to know the money policy system we are in now, we cannot prevent the defects that exist. I think it would be very normal for us senators to have any diagnostics of the other options so that we could take an informed stand for them. Of course, no matter what money policy we choose, there would be ten suggestions, education, a very good idea. They need to be taught not only about current financial policies but also about the benefits and shortcomings of other financial policies, for if circumstances change, e.g. If a new industry suddenly becomes proud in four, five years, it can change the basis for our current policy of money and that we switch to others. If we were to have such instruction and analysis equally, we would have the basis to say: "All right, now we're changing policy because the situation is very different now than it was five years ago when this money policy worked very well.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u139	V.E.G. President. We'll talk about money policy, very important and good documenting. A very good discussion has been made, and various viewpoints have been developed. It's very good that we take this issue for, reevaluate the framework of the money policy. It is very important to include in the possible changes we will see in better financial policies. V.E.G. The prime minister made it clear that economic management and the workforce need to work as a team and that a well-formed money policy can contribute to a greater prosperity in the country. I agree with that word. Prime Minister. We have this report, and it actually sums up a 100 - year history of Icelandic money policy. Several conclusions are presented in the very interesting report. Here are 11 suggestions that are well presented and about how to handle this issue and how to do it. However, as the prime minister came on - it has been published many times and mentioned in the report - it is of great importance that we follow guidelines; it is more important than the arrangements we have been selected. The reason for today's instability is that we have failed to follow the rules of ambiguity. This has been so. I'd like to interrupt some of the points in this report. When it comes to currency and ideas about it, it is the opinion of the staff that economic stability under a currency scheme is extremely difficult to secure, which can only be achieved by major system changes in this country, such as at work markets. At the same time, the employee's assessment of a coin Council is an unacceptable risk for financial status in which Icelandic financial institutions remain unrewarded to their creditors. For this reason, the work force cannot recommend these options for Iceland under existing conditions. That's what I'm talking about. Here in their talks, the members of the council handled it well and discussed it back and forth. So this is the conclusion here. It also states that over the last four to five years, the success of meeting the environmental inflation targets has been seen, and it has resulted in a huge profit in terms of high costs, while the general growth rate has declined. It is very important that this be followed, as stated in the report, that this success will be followed. It also shows that the work force should not have to run Icelandic money policy with the support of a capital crisis unless only in need. It should be possible to strengthen the foundation of policy by the practical application of national economists so that Iceland's Sellabanki will be solely responsible for financial stability, just as the bank is now responsible solely for its prices. There's a lot more to pick up from this report, but I don't intend to extend this discussion much, just to come up here and put it into practice. The report provides an excellent basis for us to continue our discussion here. The Outfit worked to reevaluate on the basis of the crown. This is different from what was done in the 2012 report, where the result was that in the near future the dollar would be currency, and that is what we would live with. There were other options set out here. I think it would be good to continue taking the work from the results of this report from 2012 to see what has happened and what has changed for us so that we can continue working on it. I'm gonna allow me to quote directly from the report, with President's permission: ▪ Every money policy has pros and cons. It is not important to determine which course is chosen but to follow the rules that each arrangement requires at any given time. The reason the Icelanders have since their sovereignty generally lived under instability and inflation is not that they have always chosen the wrong policy of money - or have not yet found the right course for them. This is because they have failed to comply with the guidelines required for the application of economic instruments in order to maintain economic stability. As a result, former money policies have broken apart, and the nation had persistent instability in money matters. I guess that won't be too often said. Discipline in government affairs is absolutely a requirement for a worthy task to ensure stability in Iceland. As the discussion has many times shown today, there are no magic solutions. We need to put in plans. We need to follow them and work in harmony with our plans. It is not only in this but also in so many other major projects that we are dealing with here as a nation, whether in transportation, in social matters, in health, and especially in money policy. The groundwork for everything is fixed, targeted, is that we follow the plans we set out.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u140	President. The Icelandic crown's gang has been swinging from time to time. It's an old story and a new one. Most would agree that such fluctuations are harmful, since they are unpredictable, and no one knows how long the downs and upturns will last. The price of export and import will fluctuate with this, as well as with the benefit of households and enterprises. For a long time, the numbers have been higher in this country than in most competitive countries. There's talk of a special Iceland strain on that subject. This means that all planning is going to be difficult, and the crew of the kroner will be in charge in a large measure of the company's plans and homes. All must try to predict evolution, but no one can. As a result, homes and businesses lose sight of what is wise or not when making decisions. One day it is wise to engage in investments, not the next. One day it is wise to start the exporting process, the next which is absolutely harmless. One day it is wise to buy real estate, the next not. One day it is wise to order a new car, the next one not. In six months, depending on the time of the day, the crown has fallen to some 10◯13%. I see, for example. new cars are being advertised in the old gang while others report rising prices. It is a familiar theme of the past, and it will probably remain, unchanged. Mr. President. In an interview with the Commissioner for Business and Service at the end of the evening news last night, it was reported that influx of prices is being reported. What is the signal for soon to happen? Will this be an increase in cost to homes and businesses, increase in in inflation, and increase in loans? During that evening news session, an interview was made with President Daníel Svavarsson, director of the Economics Department of the Lands Bank, who said by permission of the president: There is nothing in the economy that explains that the dollar has fallen so fast in the past month, we still have a lot of business to deal with abroad, we have a good foreign debt and a good deposit reserve, so the most likely explanation is some sort of showering at the market, mental depression. It has often been claimed that those who consider the euro a promising advantage of the cent. I suppose that the same is true of a large number of people who speak up, or what? A mental - health disorder, or talk about our crown, seems to have a powerful effect, far too much effect. Would it be stable if we ordered the silence of her existence, her failure, her pros, and her flaws? It's not likely, and I don't think I'd suggest it. Mr. President. Most people see that a dollar is no means to create the stability that is desirable for homes and businesses. A recent survey shows that more than a proportion of Icelanders would like to have euro than a coin for coins. That, of course, is a remarkable conclusion, and it must tell those in charge something about the trust or, rather, the distrust that the public hold on the crown. Investment of investments, production, and essential presupervisability are not available. Of course, you can't see all the things going on, and Iceland is dependent on import and export, and the situation of markets and competition will always have a lot of effect. Therefore, it is especially important for us Icelanders to master the factors we can handle. These factors need to be kept in mind when discussing the future of the Icelandic money policy report. The leaders of the Committee were assigned to work on the basis of - yes, I know that the job was started at the time of the Government - the advantage of the 2012 Council Bank's 2012 report was reasonable, i.e. To take up Euro instead of a crown, they take it out of parentheses. When, for that reason, the results are based on the premise that a dollar will be the currency of Icelanders in the near future. As far as I'm concerned, this is a clear example of how we avoid discussing the core issues and looking for the real root causes of our problems. In 2016, remuneration spoke for taking up the currency counsel for the General election. It was an attempt to obtain the discussion of currency and money policy from the long - term tire marks it has had. It can be recollected that the word coined into the Precinct Convention, the Bright Future, and the Independence Party were not without conflict. The same can be said of the reasons why the authors of the report are being discussed. Hv. Congress officials can ask themselves, " What category would want to limit the angle and the greatest, the strongest of protection that would not be mentioned anywhere in the Treaty or in the activities of this fine committee? ' The report summarises ten lessons from an Icelandic money story. There's a rather sad picture, a 100-year-old story that's covered with mistakes, and a smile hopes to master money and economic issues. Each time, we are going to do better - but in vain. We always try to convince ourselves that we have learned so much that we are now able to handle matters. And that is also true today. I sure hope I'm wrong, but unfortunately, I think history will come over again sooner or later. If someone has missed it, I think that the sooner we walk in the European Union and pick up Euro, the better. It's a policy of restoration. Actually, I would like to make it clear that I want to join the European Union, not because of the euro, but because I believe that we should be in the European Union. Of course, the euro is a good codfish. More often than not, we who have this opinion offer a magic solution that should solve all problems. Of course, this is far away. Iceland in the European Union with euro needs to know its ways and take responsibility for its own activities, and it will certainly be a difficult and challenging challenge. However, I feel that there is a slightly less efficient approach, to try over and over again to follow the same impossible route, a path that leads right into the swamp, hoping in each attempt to prove unable because new tires are now being placed under the car. However, no magic solutions are enough to cross the swamp. They are not to blame for putting new tires under the car; no, of course, it is the responsibility of the driver who sets his way over the swamp, no matter what the mutt does, who can't make it this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u141	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. I liked her very much, even though I did not necessarily agree with everything she presented. I've heard what before. A senator conducts an excellent discussion of the arguments he has about entering the European Union. I respect his opinion, and I'm willing to have a place to speak with him about that matter at some point. Now I wanted to ask what. A member of this report, not necessarily what he would like to see in the report, but the suggestions presented there. If we assume that we are not going to pick up euro - no more of it, no matter what we think of it, whether here in this councilroom or in the community - but we are going to live with no euro, what do we think? So, what suggestions are there? This report contained ten lessons from the money story. But there are also 11 suggestions that are offered, and I will strike at it. A senator did not talk about them. Hv. A senator gave the illustration that we would not be able to cross the moor even if new tires were to be placed under the car. Now we may face the fact that we're about to put new tires under the car, which passage is going to drive. A senator Chooses?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u142	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a good inquiry. He is absolutely correct in saying that I may not be very busy with the report itself and some suggestions there. It is the meeting attendance and the most successful people on this report. I'm not questioning whether they've gone to the point of choosing the right tire walk under the car this time. I'm sure a lot of that's fine, and some of it's probably very good. I think it would be nice to have this guide into a new money policy, on this basis. But I still don't think it's good, and it's kind of really bad, especially if I stick to my own metaphor, going out into the moor. There's nothing to put on a new tire walk, however solid and good and well torn up as he is, people just don't cross anything. That's the point. I have no doubt that your efforts are good, and maybe something will go a little better and all that. But I think we'll end up in the swamp again, even though I really hope I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u143	A respectable president. Perhaps I am particularly pleased with this metaphor, since I was just ordering time for a turn on tires. But I'm just wondering. Hv. This was the basis for the letter of the order and the procedure of this committee. That's what we know. A senator much more than I do. I'm trying to look at things realistically, not just our highest standards, our desires, our desires, but whatever the task we are facing. I haven't seen any wishes yet. The senator's in it. Last of all. This report was made by the government. We've got her now. What's the wish? As to this report, what should we do with it? Why don't we put it aside because the tire walk is always ruined and we're not going to lay anything on the moor? Wants to play. A senator that we would put her aside and get started on a new job and prepare a new commission where the euro would be taken; that we would do nothing for a year or two or the time it takes, I can't figure out how long that would be? Or wants some. A senator that we look at some of the 11 suggestions presented in this report and do something about it? What, then, is the main theme? I know it's probably unfair of me to be praying. A member of the council to set up in two minutes some of the 11 suggestions and discuss them materially. But I haven't heard him discuss what to do with these suggestions. So I wanted to ask you why. This is for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u144	Mr. President. Of course, it's a little hard to answer when you have no conviction about the way you're going. A government intends to contribute on the basis of this report, which certainly has its flaws. The biggest problem is that there is no such thing as to suggest, so we now stick to the metaphors, to travel another road that is likely to cross and at our destination. But I think it's wise to do, to watch many of these suggestions -- I'm not gonna mention something special in it - to try to fix things up and hope for the best. The argument that is often presented against language like mine is that there is no point in looking so far into the future because something has to be done right now. We've been talking about this many times, and it's not always time to do this carefully because it takes too long. I am now older than two winters, as you can see in chickens. If they had been in this, when this first came up, 20 years ago or so, we'd have taken care of all these matters and come to a conclusion. We would have either decided to stay in the swamp or to find a new path. But if you never want to look for a new trail, you stay in the swamp. It's hard for me to handle. But the highest. It seems that the government is determined to endure in the swamp one more time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u145	Mr. President. I'm glad we're discussing this report. It's an important introduction. I look at it as an important entry into the big discussion that we had, at least We, in resurgence, will continue, both here at council and in the community, about the need to change money policy and preferably to adopt another currency, which is the euro. I'm gonna try to focus on this report. I sometimes feel like certain members of the administration team, even the highest. Ministers, this is behind the fact that it's the order from the government I sat in last year, that it's the tip of it. Yeah, you're right. It's clear to no one that we simply can't go any further with the Independence Party. It was not possible to discuss the possibilities of all, i.e. the possibility of recording another coin and what it would mean. It's not just strengths, it's faults. It would have been nice to have that too. In addition to that, we have the report from the 2012 Federal Bank that says very clearly: If not for the Icelandic crown, the most reasonable option is to take account of the European Union. This is made clear in this report; of course, it is from 2012; yet, it is the findings of the World Bank. It would have been informative if they were good people - and I especially want to thank them for an important work in the interest of a certain review, in order to contribute it - they would have reviewed the mapping. It wasn't done, it's too bad. I'd like to underscore what's being presented, that's a good summary. It is also clear that when you see the response and opinions of other economists than the authors of the report, the views are not uniform in order to be maintained. But then what? Here I have been listening, both here in the hall and in my office, at members of the Parliament, especially from the management team, who do not want to discuss taking up Euro or another currency at all. It's natural to consider in itself for Icelandic politicians - I say as the head of a party who wants to allow the nation to continue in the European Union's negotiations, I would like to allow the people to choose a contract with the European Union - that it always is said: there is nothing to allow you to look into the package. That's exactly what I'm talking about. There are always people here, whether in the council, in the government or in the town, who think they are better off saying what they can choose each time, who say, "No, you can't take a look in the package." We never get to do that. It is always avoided in one way or another. So I think it's a shame that this report is taken only into a certain government system. It is quite clear that the government, and that is quite clear its policy, has no interest in discussing and systematically reviewing the points and indications that we actually receive every day. Today, Thursday, October 18, 2018: In addition to the commercial world, 95 billion people are making a move. A very clear report is being taken up - this is the work of ASI, BHM, BSRB, KI, Business Association, Company, the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, and others - in which it is a part of the burden we have in Iceland, and particularly the companies and homes of the country, bearing the cost, the cost of military costs, the Icelandic cent. It's just to go down into a drawer instead of facing this. That's what we're pointing at. Discipline is now being arranged. There's some tips in there. We can do this better. We've got a certain national response system, and all of a sudden, Icelandic politicians have become quite different from what they've been through because there's so much more discipline into the mess; so much more discipline in government affairs and government maintenance. What does that tell me and what does that mean? This means that the government, or government, at any given time, must be severely disciplined that it does not yield, whether on its knees or anywhere else, toward stakeholders. And what have we got to do with not a year-old government, small or larger? When a dollar is used for stakeholders, whether in fishing or in tourism, specific measures should always be made. What guarantee do I have that the government will not leave here for any specific action? What guarantee do I have that the government does not once again yield to the interests of society? ' Absolutely nothing. We can totally move from the government's opening days, when it was due to be done with such a great deal, and finish it, and the special cheeses - decided to open up a little more customs at the time. As a result of a legal struggle, they are immediately caught and stopped because the stakeholders called their own people. Then it could not be opened. Then the network could not be converted to consumers, and it could only open up. This is just an example I'm taking of what I'm afraid of, i.e. that once again we're having an experiment with the Icelandic crown and being telling people something that will never be done, because we've got the smell of butter from being with a yielding government. Do I need to talk about the seabed? Do I need to point to the spring fishing fees? Of course, the government began to trip back when she saw how wrong it was and how opposed that bill was, both here at the council and in the community. I have no guarantee that there will suddenly be more discipline in terms of government matters, that there will be more resistance, that one dare to say no to the interests of the world because it may affect money policy. We've been good at that, huh? The reveries, how costly it is for us Icelanders. At a rate of 300 billion each year. Aren't people accepting the sum? Then you just go back and forth into the same game with some tiny new badges that are none. The emperor has no clothes, once again. That's 200 to 300 billion. 40% of it goes to an Icelandic company. Again here, the military cost, 40% of those over 300 million, falls into Icelandic homes, and 20% falls on a state fund in the form of higher interest rates and other factors. It has often been said of the Estra, that they are examples of how devastating the euro was. They took the crisis through their economic system through the euro. It is true that unemployment increased temporarily. But what did we get in return? We received a duplicity of inflation with all the due terms, debt, bankruptcy, and then 70 billion corrections. There has been a huge rise in Estonia after they entered the EU, but most clearly, they have been able to maintain a certain economy in their government. They have used this cooperation and their entry into the EU in very progressive ways. Public expenditures as a proportion of GDP are lower than in Iceland. The point is, and it may be my point, that the Eistar are a good example of a land that has succeeded, including in the strength of the EU, to manipulate business. They have, for example. E-Evila, there's a technicalisation in that country that has saved the country very much cost. I would have liked to, in addition to this report, for us to discuss - we are thinking about the recording of euro trying to get into some stability for a long time, not a 100-year history of unstableness, as we have experienced - what is involved in the size of the economic situation. What are we saving, including? in this country? The Eistar have produced more and less large parts of their financial system. There, the Danish and Swedish banks run 95% of the system, meaning that the system falls more and less under foreign agencies. That's a lot of savings. And for a small economy like Iceland, this will mean an enormous sum of savings to the currency. We would like to stress that it is not reasonable for the public to stay behind with the crown, the cost of it, while certain companies in Iceland guarantee it; we know that in certain sectors they do. They are not shopping with the crown, they settle in foreign coins, and they have access to cheaper, much less expensive, foreign funds. The crown has proved to be expensive to the Icelandic family, and it is very important. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, we will be living in a restoration, although it is not necessarily a more important matter for them to keep this discussion alive and alive the next semester.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u146	Mr. President. I must admit that I feel a sense of empathy. A senator has the right to fight for matters that obviously do not have more part in the Council. The subjects I've been speaking to have some real connection. Let's read it. The senator didn't do the same newspapers? Don't we hear the same news? Do we not know how the European Union has nothing to do with accepting new Member States? Do we not see how the European Union is trying to humiliate our good friends of the British? And I guess, so I'll just let myself get out of the Danish, to the other people who might think of disappearing from the European Union. Have not we not observed the news of how the Greek nation was trampled, stripped of its sovereignty, and ruled by some trident? Counts 'em out. A senator and her party desirable for the Icelanders to join this coalition while this is the case? It's a little small. A senator that we had escaped the Icesaves, do I allow to say, if we had been party to the European Union at that time? Or perhaps we would have had to issue the full responsibility of the bank commitments as did the Irish. I have to say, I'm amazed at the presentation in this regard. We now see that we could, in the power of this discussion and future changes in the law on the Seal even gain the relief of this housing force that has imposed an unbearable burden on us. Why isn't there a pack of whales? A senator and a what. A senator, as powerful as he is, with us trying to get rid of this insurance policy? [[The president calls.]] Or is it just a matter of holding their insurance on to stress and telling people that they must work to accept involvement in the European Union by the government that comes with them to get rid of the insurance?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u147	The President reminds us that the matter is Icelandic.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u148	Mr. President. Just to underline it: If we're going to stay unchanged, we'll support that the mortgage will be dealt specifically with in the insurance policy. We support special consideration. You see, I'm completely at odds with what I'm saying. A senator because I have believed in it, and it shows itself through history, that every step, and it was always said that now Iceland was surrendering its sovereignty, which we Iceland took into even deeper international cooperation whether it is the NATO, the Atlantic Alliance, EFTA at its time, 1970, or later with our entry into the European Economic Area, 1994, we were always strengthening our sovereignty with increased international cooperation. We did not become weaker; we grew stronger in international cooperation. We need to start taking this as a serious European discussion and a European discussion, because this is, of course, closely related. What matters today is how we look to the European Union. I'm looking at this as a team. The British are fully capable of trying to get themselves out of the dirt because they didn't tell you the truth before the Bgreit election. Was it true when people talked about just getting a pair of 450 million British pounds a year that they entered the European Union? It'd just go right into the health system? Of course not! Everyone today admits that it was not handled properly. For the British to leave the European Union, it's only a matter of course. If they don't want to get signed, they'll have no contract and they'll just have to face the consequences of their actions. It's very simple to me. The second, the role of the European Union? Today when a person hears a popu list of people around the world, especially in Europe, being on the move with certain nationalism, we must never, in the interest of nationalities, in the interest of community, refuse to face the importance of Europe's peace. Peace is the best weapon for us to build up a human society, a marketed society. [[The president calls.]] That's where I want to take the European Union discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u149	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I notice why. A senator does not comment on what I even said. in Greece. Greece is a small country in the European Union. I took up the matter as a matter of personal interest in the treatment of Greece, which was in great trouble, a country with a dignified history. They don't see the end of it. You might have long figures about how badly that country is treated and how badly it's been played. It's what it is. Senator that we were expected to receive a better treatment in the European Union than that shown to Greece? I'm going to be surprised. I'm also surprised that there's talk about it as if it's within our reach that we can go in there. In view of the information available, there is nothing on the European Union's agenda. I also notice why. A senator does not comment on what I mentioned, how we would have been angry in the collapse if we had been members of the European Union. So this presentation is rather peculiar, I must let myself say. But, hey. Of course, a senator is free to observe this. I'm still going to use this opportunity to thank her for her statement about the housing team. I'm going to let myself hope that it will lead them to a pack. A senator will not be so completely eliminated from the halls of the Generals in those cases, unless he prefers to protest those who are trying to fight in behalf of America's homes and businesses in order to get rid of this insurance policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u150	Mr. President. As it happens, we delegates and I are being built up - this ideal period is four of us, and we will become much more of a part of the next one - are having a lot of fun at work. This is partly because there are good people in all categories and they are also attracting, except for being able to communicate objectively. I'm just gonna try to answer, I actually felt that I answered part of it, because it's a huge case at the time of the EU, that's when it can't be cut off and covered all the parts in two minutes. Have we done better in Icesave? economists have - why. A senator is an economist and knows this much better than I do - very clearly pointed out to him and asked whether we had simply stood in that situation if we had had had a euro, whether we had simply stood up to the problem that Icesave set us up in its own time. I'd rather answer it this way: "I believe that our situation would have been different if we had the good fortune of being in the European Union and being with Euro. I don't think that's a question. But I've got two masks coming on when I hear skeptics from the Gang of the People, and in other categories not only to the EU but also to the European Economic Area, the EEA Convention. Is that what I'm afraid of? No, what I'm afraid of is simply that people start to get up and try to reduce their relationship and security and the progress we Icelanders have gained through our involvement in the European Economic Area. At the same time, I would like to state that certain cabinet ministers in the government have made no mistake in this regard, they are not on their pants to tell us about the EEA. However, there are these views, so we feel that the European debate is important to us in return. These are huge interests. [[The president calls.]] No group can fail to discuss these issues much more than one day in a report on Iceland's financial policies for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u151	A respectable president. We will discuss the future of Icelandic money policy, the pleasant publication, and informative. I'm going to start by being very honest. When I first received this publication, I feared that it would be an embarrassment to read through it. I, a weak businessman and a politician, might not have known all the things that would appear there. However, I would like to commend the authors for their extensive work and good work and suggestions, as well as for their success in putting it on quite a bit of fun and read. The discussion is, in my opinion today, a respectable president, having been objective and good, and I think it's very good that we've taken our time with it, of course, because it's a huge case. Then you might wonder what you can add during the final meters of this discussion. I just wanted to introduce to you what, of course, has been discussed here today that maybe the most clear message for us is that it is not everything that is chosen but that we follow the rules. We, the nation of Iceland, are not specifically disciplined, and we have clearly become manifest. It is clear that in the mind of authors, there is no money policy raised in a democratic state unless it is a state of transnational support. It is likely, too, that we too will take time to discuss this matter, to reach some such transverse support, although it will certainly be so that we will always have differing views on some aspect of the course. In view of the location where we are, the authors of this report take together 10 lessons from an Icelandic money story, and I want to pause specifically at three lessons. It says: "A workforce is the foundation of prices. " It explains that no one has ever been caught, what to say, satisfied, has ever come up with any agreement on how individual classes arranged on the pay ladder. The report suggests that other nations have been far better able to accomplish this. I think we need to discuss these matters in the coming winter in view of the release of collective agreements. I think there would be in many ways a need and a good discussion, that we would discuss it, in place of eternal percentages and sums. We would try to get closer to agree on how different classes should be placed in the pay ladder. I also had an uneasiness to read from the pages of the Bible. 35 of the report says, with the permission of the president: ▪ When it comes to large, difficult, and potentially unpopular decisions, politicians face a specific commitment issue. It's as taught in the yellow little chicken that everyone wants to eat the cake, but no one will bother to bake it. The democracy can easily turn into an auction market - in which each candidate strives to offer a higher one until the meeting ends well above an economic reality. I thought it would be a good idea to choose this sentence to read here in this hall right now, considering that we're talking about the budget and it's in our affairs. I think most of us have ideas that even though most of them do so, they may still be added to them. Perhaps there are fewer ideas on how to adjust and save. A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this discussion in particular. I have a seat on the Economic and Business Committee and, like, a respectable chairman of this committee, why. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, earlier this afternoon, we planned to take this report to further our discussion on the committee, and I assume we'll exchange opinions on this and hopefully cooperate with the highest level of cooperation. Prime Minister on the suggestions that may be made in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u152	A respectable president. I'll point to it. A senator when he says that it does not matter what course is chosen but only to follow it, reflecting what is said in the report. But what do we know about the lack of comparisons? We can't say when the list, explanation, and cost analysis of all the available options is missing, even when not all the options for which the database of the report was intended are considered. This is a way to dust readers'eyes, for obviously there are different costs and costs and problems with each option. First thing. A senator referred to the little yellow chicken that did all of that, but that little yellow chicken didn't make all of it. She did not consider all options.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u153	A respectable president. I'm not sure if it was a direct question in the counter, but what? A senator points out that the committee to whom this assignment was given had a set of boundaries and frames, and he worked within it. I think they've done it well, and they take good care of it. So I heard in the discussion earlier today that there had been a number of reports in the country and elsewhere about values, pros and cons of different money policies. They say they're all lies down, even though I may not have been planning to read all of them, since it's the first report to be discussed here after I attended the council. To me, it's not as complicated, but I respect it. A senator may have a different view of this. The benefits and faults of various ways are considered fine. What I pointed out, which is really the big message in the report, is to follow the rules of the game, the methodology. That's the big message for us. Also, it may be thought that in view of the fact that we Icelanders are doing quite well in almost all international comparisons, although we had certainly been able to do much better in many ways, we may have a little bit of a change in mind when we discuss that it's all on the couching side and we don't know anything and we don't follow anything at all. Yet, we are one of the richest nations in the world, and we are very good at it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u154	A respectable president. It is true that we are a resource country and gradually gather into the rod. True, we have been able to cope with the resources available to us and have become rich in it. But since we're supposed to follow the rules and first money policy goes out, what do you think? A senator, then, about the fact that the current budget is not in accordance with all sources to shut down the underlying inflation pressure that all clients say is present? It came, for example. recently revealed by all the announcements received by the Association of the Business regarding rising prices when the gang began to get sick. If we care so much about applying the rules, why don't we do so under the law?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u155	A respectable president. I have to admit, I haven't read all the reviews that came to the budget about the budget. I don't think it's entirely true that all the reviews are on the way. But we should be quite aware that we are expanding quite far into the frames we have. I think that everyone was aware of this right away when we gave financial instructions and then the budget, it's clear that there's only a reasonable amount of space. On the other hand, we have over and over again the fact that money is being set aside on a very social project that will bring us increased growth in the future. But I can honestly say that we need to be very careful. I think it's the big message. In such times, we need to take a very careful approach to the earth as we increase in expenses.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u156	Mr. President. I thank you for the careful and detailed discussion of this report on the future of Icelandic money policy. Many good things have been said during the discussion. There are some conclusions that I draw from that discussion. I realize that some have made an observation that the report is about what it is, not about anything else, that this is not about the choice of European Community relations and recording of euro but only options for money policy based on the fact that the dollar is the foundation. As I went to my opening language, it was a letter from the former government that shaped the work of the Committee so that I can do little with these critical services, even if it comes from the members of that government. It has been explained how. This is the report on which I like it in many ways. I'm glad I hear it from different times. In the report, members of the council that although they had wanted to see other topics in the report, they are pleased with the suggestions presented here, many of them. That's good. It is a guide for the government to continue working, to form in the earlier project. On the other hand, I make a comment on this, for if there is a lesson about the collapse, we don't discuss conflicting views, overcome and criticize one another, criticize one another, criticize one another's viewpoint, and if anyone is a lesson, he is being critical of economic control, whether in Iceland or anywhere else. So I find that when people talk about the criticism talking about shutting up the discussion, the government wants to silence a debate about the European Union. I really don't want to shut her up. This is exactly what I want to discuss, and I want to discuss the economy in the European Union, and I want to discuss the European Union's policy, which I have repeatedly been here and before with the benefits and defects. I can't agree with any senators talking about the fact that something here is being silenced. It's just not like that at all. I'm celebrating a discussion, and we're all here to celebrate it. We are to remember the lesson from the collapse of the economy. And criticism is important. It'll get us along. That's the way it is. The report covers many criticisms of Iceland's 100 - year history when it comes to money policy. It doesn't change that, and it's also interesting to me to hear that here are some of them. Councilmen spoke of this disaster story of the sovereign regime, same as it was. Congress officials and I have often heard talk about the progress that has taken place in Iceland for a hundred years. Something's been good for us to do right in the last 100 years. It is interesting, however, to learn from the report that there have been some efforts in money policy. As noted in the chapter of this series, films have been tried - it was now a bad one. A senator who made a note of the fact that here was this story traced - I think exactly that the storypiece is the most important thing for this report, because he puts it all in the overall context. Let's think about why, for example. The Norwegian currency alliance didn't work. People may not put it in the context of today's coin tips, but these were exactly the same causes that we share in today's many coin exchange work, i.e. lack of cooperation in terms of government policy and tax issues, which led to the appearance of the Norwegian currency alliance. We can certainly learn from history. That's what the committee does. I'll state that I didn't choose the party in it, but I believe that they're all professionals who have worked this way, except for those foreign experts who were called in. There are various lessons, and I feel that it is important that we continue to work on the project that I believe has taken place since collapse, to strengthen the framework of money policy that I mentioned in my first speech. What's been done? Yeah, there was a whole different account about the financial system in Iceland today than it was 10 years ago. It's quite a different setting of economic policy than it was ten years ago with the development of a financial strategist and a system Risk Committee. Why don't we continue in that course? I don't hear any other viewpoints from members of Congress but just taking advantage of these lessons. We've been able to deal with the indexing staff here. I've found that interesting, but I'd like to reiterate what I also said earlier today, and we need to finish that opinion of taking the mortgage out of the index number, which I know is different. Senators have spoken up. That is why the report gives sound evidence. Even so, I feel that we need to discuss the procedure in the country in calculating these housing facilities, as a number of disorders. Councilmen also made publicity, and they differ from what is common in Sweden. Let's talk about the European Union, some say why. Councilmen, and I say, let's discuss it, let's discuss all the facts. This pointed out that a greater proportion of the population in a recent survey was in favor of the recording of Euro. Consider the other side, which appeared in the same survey, the exact same study, which is brand - new and was conducted in October. A greater proportion of the population, despite being in favor of the uptake of EUR, would reject entry into the European Union, or 57.3% are opposed to entry into the European Union. The majority of the country's population are also opposed to making contact with EU Member States. So when we discuss the European Union, let's keep the whole picture in mind. That's what I'm saying. It is not enough just to discuss money policy or currency when talking about the European Union. We need to take the bigger picture and discuss it. Do not fear the discussion. Do not fear the criticism and be ready to discuss the benefits and defects it would bring. Not because they do not share our opinion of others about silence. I don't think there's anything wrong with that. I found it interesting what happened to someone. Councilmen who were involved in the position of innovations and sceptres under current financial policies. I would be interested in obtaining further analysis of what has the most impact on innovation companies. Now, we've seen the software industry grow in Iceland, especially because of the investments under the 2012 Board of Directors, when research, innovation, and creative articles were made up to increase into Iceland's software sector. Let us look at Iceland's competitiveness as it is called in English, although I find myself bored with sledges in foreign affairs from this chair, the Globe Compulsive Index to the President's permission, Iceland has taken up five places in three years. What makes us going up on this list? Don't we need to take a closer look at other aspects of the environment of innovation companies and sceptres? Then I would like to remind you of the policy of the present government to have a special place in these companies, either by improving research and development support and by a direct investment in innovation through the fund that was also called earlier today. Then I come to the big picture that may not have been very much discussed, although from some point of view. Councilmen so interesting to read about in the historical chart of this publication. What's the reason why the economy has been a success in Iceland? Yes, a part of the lessons is just a monotonous professional life. Passion failure. ... that the treacherous is the force of the sea. They say here at one point in the report. How will we cope? Do we do this by speaking exclusively of money policy? No, we must do this by talking about employment policies, talking about how we can provide greater support for the Icelandic economy, thus making us more independent of external cycles. That's why I say, if we want to look to the future, a longer future, and think about how we're going to build up the Icelandic economy in the long future, the most important investment we can make on the other hand is education and research and innovation. Increased intelligence and intelligence in all of society's sectors, depending more on intelligence than on the resources also referred to here, change the community to be an intelligent economy rather than a resource drive. It is the vision of the future that will matter so much about money policy. Because money policy is not just about currency. The currency is the device, but the economy needs to hang on a few more factors. The government's budget. It has been noted that in recent years, the frame has, of course, changed completely. No matter how slight they may be and that they have been disputed, everyone agreed that long - term spending is important. The labour market. My hopes are that we can get a conversation between the labour market members and the government into much more rigid shapes. We've already attacked it with these people's regular meetings. I want to make them, in line with what happens somewhere else in the North. The money policy. There we need to strengthen the box, but the foundation is, of course, professional life, and there we politicians can be a real influence. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u157	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend a synonym of the modeling of a cluster policy. The discussion that took place before and at the highest point. Prime Minister concluded his discussion on reevaluation of money policy and monotonous work life, personality failure, and the solution to research and development, education and employment policy is completely agreed with the case I recommend. The proposal suggests that the General agrees to assign the government to appoint a group of workers who are assigned to shape public cluster policy. The policies include an arrangement on how the public support of the national sector in cooperation with industry, research and education institutions, rural areas and other relevant stakeholders. The policy and implementation programme of the EEA and Technical Council to support the cooperation of science and employment, promoting innovation, promoting the competitiveness of companies, industry and the country, and promoting the prosperity. Furthermore, it is suggested that the government submits a report to the Generals with results of a staff group at the end of May 2019. I think such policies can yield a great deal of benefits for the job, innovation, and particularly for the development of jobs related to the use of resources across the country, the more targeted and meaningful use of a number of funds designed to promote research and innovation, whether in the education sector or in the projects. We can call it a step into a more targeted policy. The report on the bill shows that the subject was previously delivered at 144, 145, and 146 C.E., but it did not succeed. Because it is suggested that cluster policy and implementation plans of the Scientific and Technical Council, referred to in the Senate Relations to reference one, I intend to read it by permission of the President: To maintain the quality of life the country has to move forward, work in opposite fields and fields, look to what is best done abroad, and increase its value as society's services are expanded. The proposal of public cluster policy, to support the emphasis given in the Scientific and technical implementation programme for well-developed policies and the importance of such policies as information development and economics is essential for careful policy development and for increasing understanding of the research and innovation systems, their flexibility to follow the results of and more targeted government decision making, institutions such as university, research, and enterprises. On page 9, of the same report, according to the President's permission of the study and innovation in the world of rapid changes and challenges: ▪ Society today face complex global challenges, e.g. environment, climate, health, energy, food, transport and safety. It is important that investment in knowledge will lead to better understanding of social challenges and guide the way to effective solutions. Such solutions often require extensive cooperation across academics and between university, institutions, and businesses. For new knowledge to become useful to society, it must have an influence on change, e.g. in government policies, by legislation, by changing business practices and institutions or by changing people's behavior. The social challenges are somewhat uncertain, as it is difficult to predict their impact and how best to react. A clear view of the future and a progressive investment in knowledge will increase the potential for positive results and a more successful adjustment in changing circumstances. That is exactly what the suggestion we make is about to fall. The Action Programme presents the social challenges of promoting cross-cutting research and innovation into universities, research institutions, and companies. An example of such emphasis is found in our neighboring countries that deal with the challenges we face; changes in the sea; climate change; social and democracy; environmentally friendly cities; and new technologies. The whole purpose of this is to improve the priority of investment in research and innovation, including Through the target programme and infrastructure, and better harmonise international government cooperation over research and innovation in European and Norwegian fields. This is, in fact, the core of a cluster operation and is very familiar with what is presented in the Scientific and Technical Action Programme. The definition of the new creation centres at malls is the geographic cluster of linked enterprises, suppliers, services, industry-related enterprises and institutions in specialized fields both competitive and cooperative. This is found in reference two of the proposal, a respectable president. The proposal also emphasizes the importance of considering international experience and knowledge in that area. The report shows that the work is expected to be carried out by Dana, the Norwegians, and the nations that have come most recently in the development of public cluster policy. It is expected that the government will submit a report, as I did earlier, and in this report it is important that the experience is compiled, I mention Norway, Denmark, and the European Union that has been working on cluster policy for decades. It would be most desirable to mention this in the report. Various research and reports confirm that clustering is a useful tool for promoting innovation and competitiveness of smaller and medium-sized enterprises. Thus, Clustering has increasingly been used for innovation and work construction worldwide and to promote the competitiveness of businesses, territories and nations. Prominently, innovation in modern cluster management is crucial to the development of long-term sector development. Ideas are known in themselves in this country, and Iceland's New Arts Center is a leading member of research and development and has published a cluster management manual, which is found in reference three of the proposals. In fact, there are good shopping projects that have been seen today, both in public but in the commercial world that we call self - rated clusters, such as the sea cluster, the geothermal cluster, and the mall, so I mention some who have achieved quite good results and have proved their value. A policy should increase the emphasis on cooperation between research and the already established clusters and should be used on that basis. I can give you an example of the art group that has worked here for the longest time. What can be the result of such a calling? Three huge international conventions have been held, and for example, there are international geologic conferences held in Hörp 2016 on the use of geologic products. It is a very good example of what can arise in such a field and in company cooperation between institutions and educational community. At the conference there were lectures like Michael Porter. There were 1,000 visitors from 40 nations sharing knowledge. By means of the conference, Iceland or the Icelandic geothermal cluster has been able to build Iceland as the main platform of geologic and renewable energy on a global scale. We were then able to obtain the five - year - long universal conference in competition with countries such as Chile, Germany, Kenya, the Philippines, and the United States. That conference takes place here in 2020. If the government does not mark policy and does not participate in such projects, we will lose out on opportunities, and there is a danger, if such support and commitment do not exist, that such an assignment will be removed. This is an example of what can be won in cluster work, where knowledge comes from many sources, from educational community, from institutions, from public sources, from employment. I named Denmark and Norway, where cluster policy has been involved. Norwegians define three types of cluster form in their cluster policy, which is published. V.E.G. Prime Minister mentioned professionalism. We have not yet produced a job policy, but this is certainly a business policy that may well fit in with that job or as part of a job policy. Norwegians define regional clusters as unique areas that have extra strength. We must define all resources, strengths, and weaknesses according to areas. With public, professional and financial support and adjunction from companies and employment in the districts, they agree to focus on the construction of jobs around the local sector and on the obligation of the work. Norwegians define national clusters to cooperate with clusters in the same sector where clusters of services can be added to the work of the entire population in different fields and in innovations, education and markets of management, information, etc. Then there are Norwegians, with international clusters in which they are in the world's lead, in oil processing, in sailing, and in other branches. The key elements to increase the competitiveness of Norway, both abroad and within the country, are well cared for by them by means of clustering. So did Danir in 2013, who, like the Norwegians, divided into regional, national, and international clusters. In December 2012, the Danish Ministry of Education and Science published a innovation policy in which a vision of a government dance group is strengthening cooperation and building bridges between scientific research, education, and commercial innovation. New creation solutions should be the key to growth and prosperity, as it shows. The emphasis I refer to and present in a report by the Ministry of Education is similar to that of the Scientific and Technical Action Programme. The report has an interesting approach to innovation, which says that people are creative and job life and the company drive that transforms the innovation into greater value and employment opportunities. To that end, more intensive policy development must be emphasised on innovation in the economy. Interested, they find a new creation policy to reference four to the Congress resolution. The Danish budget for 2015 reached agreements between all the different political parties that were then on the dance council and is actually based on a policy in which a detailed cluster policy was introduced as one of the key elements of the Neo-creation policy. New and updated policy became valid in Denmark before 2016-2018, and I had it included in a reference to five in the suggestion for interested people. A respectable president. The Conspiracy proposal for the development of cluster policy is just to shape the channel of work with the expansion of innovation and employment around Iceland. Official cluster policy allows the cooperation of science and employment in behalf of valuable creations, resulting in increased production and prosperity, as has been done in other places. For example, I named Norway and Denmark, but there are other prisoners. I think it's very important that we look to international experience that can be found in such official policies. I think it is a trend to promote innovation, to increase the competitiveness of national and international sectors as well as to be guided by increased cooperation between schools, research and employment. It will also lead to a more targeted application of funds to sectoral and rural development. The suggestion is with me. The members of the council of Þórunn Egil's Egilsdóttir, Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Ginsdottir, and Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristunnsdotir. A respectable president. After the discussion, I suggest that the proposal be made. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u158	Madam President. I want to thank you. A pilot for detailed and detailed history. There are some things I just wanted to swaddle with. A pilot. The first thing is, we have a major committee in progress that's building a innovation policy for Iceland on behalf of the Minister of Neon. I noticed why. An authority said that cluster policy is one of the key factors in Dana's innovation policy. Then it may become a matter of the chicken or the egg. Somehow I think it would be easier to start with the Neo-creation policy and let it lead to the tool most convenient. Well, we have, like, a bang. paritaprevir Named, of course, and know of, experimenting on this situation. We've had national programmes, and we've had strategies, and some of them have been successful, but we're not. Hv. An authority also recognized that there are a number of spontaneous movements. Many of them have done very well. What I'm trying to say here is that I think it's far more likely to be successful in such cluster ideas, which, of course, are widely available and have given a good offer, that the self - righteous leads. I don't want to use the word to force you, but trying to make something that doesn't mean I don't think it's a good ending. Rather than trying to create a cluster by hand, we should think of it in such a way as to support the self - righteous.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u159	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator resists. It is true that there are many self - esteem class that I entered in my talk that has done wonderful things and is doing very well. But ideologies are going out across articles. A lot of these funds and a lot of research and innovation are on the scene of the public. That's exactly what Klas is based on our participating in this clustering work. There's always a chance we'll just sit by and there'll be a gap. Similarly, it is very important to associate all colleges with this, the educational community, employment, and the public. The question is also true. A senator and I agree with him about the Neo-creation policy, I know this group at the highest level. Neo-creation minister, I'm an assistant in that group, and I'm very interested in these matters. The way Danir followed the Neo-creation policy was that they were quick to step further and agreed on a cluster policy that is actually interwoven with innovation and is just a tool to activate innovation. The experience abroad of this in the reports I've grappled through is precisely that all work becomes more targeted, as with all policy development, all funds being more targeted, and then it leads to a better outcome, when people from different sources work together, that they become good things, just as in the geothermal clusters. [[The president calls.]] I thought, because I went to the international Earthly conference, I needed something. I can come into it in a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u160	Thank you. The answer is made by a senator who wants to say so as not to be misunderstood that I think all of these ideas are a very good answer. As a result of successful cross-cutting between articles, between funds, science, technology, and businesses, a great deal can result in good things. I'm completely that way. What I'm trying to stress is that the primate in what happens is the spontaneous. I don't think a normal clustering will exist unless those who come into the mall work themselves feel the need and the benefits available. To set up a house and say: This is where the board is to sit in charge, from these people, etc., is not likely to work. I'm trying to get this out of my system so that it gets separated, it's so important to let the need for advice be taken, that in the end it's so that those with the ideas and the knowledge are looking together. And that, of course, should help them to do so. I agree completely with that. I'm not saying that this council proposal is against it in any way. But I think it's important that we keep in mind when we talk about this and continue to think that this is the key to achieving results. Going that way to make things up, somehow from above, it doesn't end well, I think. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u161	V.E.G. President. I'll figure it out every step of the way. A senator is leaving. I had an appointment in a previous answer, but here it is appropriate to associate with the fact that at the global geologic convention, which was grandly broken, the government was a little on the sideline. There's always a flaw. The self - righteous malls tend to lock up in their professional clothes, as we call it. There is a lack of commitment, a lack of direction. This is what you read very carefully through the input of the Danish policy. With government policy you accept this cooperation, this site, and provide some vision of how to use it, for example. in resource use and shape innovation across the country. Hence, the Norwegians and Danir both define a local cluster, a local cluster, and an international cluster. That's how we get all parties to the table. The only thing that happens in this case is that governments actually accept and support this. The main European Union's criticism of shopping in Iceland is a lack of government support in shopping. If this continues, it will be isolated from a few professional clusters lacking support, lacking the declaration. Then there is the danger that it will fade away and not achieve its purpose. It is evident in the Danish policy that governments, rural governments, employment, and all these people have a common vision and aim to promote the development of knowledge and to use this tool, cluster policy, on which it rests. It's the input. If everyone follows a certain vision, the support will be readily available.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u162	Madam President. Rather, we'll discuss the underlying proposal for clustering, or we can call it public policy. Of course, it's been new in the past few decades, 20 years or so, at least Here on land. As with many other progress, the concept of cluster witnessing has been tested in independent or self - righteous classes. This was called ecomores and seafarings and touristry. Hv. One authority correctly mentioned it. I made a small proposal for the environment related to geoenergy and, therefore, the cluster agency and came to know this ideologies, and it can only be viewed with a positive view. I have known that this particular groupwork in the geothermal sector has been successful and successful, perhaps with the fact that he was the first in the series and that his experience had become the greatest. Ideas, this multitude teamwork, are known in science, are used to build bridges between different fields of science and are very common, thus trying to make use of both widely available, broad knowledge, and effective conversation for new works and new ideas. It can be said that shopping in a particular industry or also as a partnership between industry and a number of other members of the community, institutions or companies, is actually based on similar ideologies. Clearly, cooperation of this kind promotes fertile innovation, which is usually one of the main achievements of clustering, just innovation. The complete structure of government cluster policy is a step forward, and I believe it should be celebrated and this council resolution made at the same time recommended by the Council of the House of forwardhood. I don't see that public cluster policy in any way prevents, or stands in the way, or drags self - righteous clusters, simply because there is no law and command against such a course, it is simply a voluntary declaration and encouragement. In itself, I'm not worried about what's happened here before me. The report discusses the preparation of cluster activities in Norway and Denmark and exchanges in local clusters, branch clusters, and international clusters. At first glance, I've studied this exchange lightly, it could be suitable in various ways, perhaps in all respects. Now this council proposal comes to mind. In this case, professional committee, and my hope is that she will get more progressive because she deserves it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u163	A respectable president. I'd like to start by celebrating a special council agreement and thanking you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson for the tour of the importance of the State's meeting for cluster policy. In many cases there are self-consistencies due to the co-ordinates of cooperation, but support for that arrangement can make a difference in the growth and growth of tents. The password here is cohesive, although, certainly, members of a cluster can be in an active competition. According to the Parliamentary Directive, the government is commissioned to appoint a group of workers who are assigned to shape policies that will show how the public is supporting the network in that issue. I also believe that positive incentives are being used to promote cooperation in innovation, research, development, and production, to name something important, the emphasis on a cluster there. Hv. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson also spoke of the importance of looking to other countries. In this context, I even indicated. in the United States, where for a long time the cooperation of various sectors and research, especially in the technical sector, has come up. Most people know a variety of clusters in the California Valley of Silicon, but such as Iceland, there are other areas in the West Sea that often take into account the variety of society's priorities. Recently, the variety of clusters of physiographs with increased emphasis on the importance of health outcomes, and classes are turning toward renewable energy sources. When considering cluster policy, it is important to mention the importance of maping the currently found clusters in Iceland. The Western Sea has led Harvard University to that work when the goal is to provide information on a broad cluster. There you can find a map of a variety of cluster functions, as well as the support available for various clusters of new creation companies. In this country, it is important to establish national or regional divisions where companies and institutions can connect and work to create valuables for the community and their territory as a whole. In my opinion, cluster policy thus provides a stronger support for small and medium-sized enterprises in the country and is worthy of special attention. In my hometown, Southnes, clocks have taken root and can be found. Consider a field of health, one of which has been supported by sceptre companies. From that fertile soil, companies have grown and prospered. Alternatively, e.g. The company of Geo Silica, who processs the carbon - making supplements, has continued to grow in recent years. In recent years, the company is taking a course on foreign markets and has received a number of innovations. Madam President. At the end, I reiterate the importance of the state's setting up a cluster policy. I am confident that it will lead to more innovation and more prosperity in this country for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u164	A respectable president. Just a moment. This is exciting. I hope it goes any further than it's gone before. I like this structure towards innovation and, in fact, a support network, especially for people who are looking for entrance into innovation and pioneering. They often need counsel on where to go. Those who are entering new ones are often lost in the system as such, not realizing all the funding, where to look for sponsors, etc. I think something like this could help a lot to guide people where they're going to look and support new environments, new companies, or new ideas. And as a whole, we see more projects being done.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u165	Madam President. I recommend a bill of a change in scientific research law, No. 44/2014. The transporters of this bill are, along with the one that stands here, why. The members of Árnadóttir Kolbrún Arnad, Brítís Haraldsdóttir, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Halldóra Mogensen, Sæland Gaand, Reósar Brynjólfsdóttir Brjolfólóttir, and Egilsdóttir Eglilsdótir, or eight female members, women of all council groups. 1st par. The bill is about that after 17. Let the law bring in a new article called the 17th paragraph. a, and the headline of this article would be reported for serious medical conditions. If a randomised diagnosis of severe disease, including genetic differences that are far more likely to lead to any significant illness, is found in the implementation of a scientific study of humans or in the implementation of a data study, the responsible researcher should immediately report it to an official surgeon. The competent surgeon should inform the health care professional to obtain the necessary personal information from a responsible investigator, inform the individual and give them advice on possible therapeutic options. At any time, an individual may decide that he or she does not want the information stated in 1st. He shall inform the surgeon's office of his request. The surgeon should take care of the reporting form and arrange for it to be available in a healthcare facility and by an independent healthcare professional. The surgeon's office should keep an encrypted record of individuals who have reported that they do not wish to be informed by. 1.mg. and ensures that the individual's will is respected. The officers of the surgeon generals who work in front of the court are bound to a confidentiality of things they find out and should be hidden by the law or by the nature of the case. They shall prepare a vow of silence before they begin. Though no longer function, much of the responsibility of being silent begins. Two. is a change to arrive at 17. a in the list 25. gt. It is then assumed that the law will be obtained when it comes to values, i.e. as soon as they're approved, which I really hope will happen to this council. So I have read the articles as they are and will now discuss the contents a little better. The bill suggests changes in the scientific research laws of the health field, as stated earlier, and determines when to provide information on the life-threatening condition revealed by a scientific study of humans based on the implementation of a data study. It is also suggested that individuals who do not wish to receive this information should be informed by the surgeon's office and that the surgeon's office makes it available to request that the information be withheld and that this request be respected. It is widely recognized that healthcare centres of biomarkers are important health and biological testing devices. There are clear laws between scientific research and health care. This also applies to genetic research. However, there has been increased awareness of whether and when patients should receive information that may be obtained from scientific genetic research that may involve their health, treatment, or life expectancy. It may involve a life-threatening condition or a high risk of morbidity. The laws on scientific research on health care do not address the handling of such information and opinions that are to be taken care of, and it is urgent to correct them. It is an undisputed responsibility for the treating of a physician to respond appropriately when a disease, such as cancer, is diagnosed by chance when the patient goes to health care, but in recent years it is often done in imaging tests. A person is informed of the diagnosis, is provided with information, further research is conducted, and treatment is arranged on the basis of the best knowledge. Thus it is claimed that chance analysis probably had the most impact on the survival of a whole patient population, such as renal cell carcinoma. An article with the bill points to scholarly articles and essays for support. Nevertheless, the incidence rates of mortality have increased at the same time. The report then shows that the growth of tumours is mainly explained by chance and that today there are about half of newly diagnosed renal cell carcinomas in Iceland. Foreign organisations have for years published guidance on any genotypic differences observed by chance during the genotypic analysis performed at standard health care centres should be reported to the treating physician. When you look at the health of an individual, there is no question why a random diagnosis of a serious disease is involved. It is essential for individuals to be informed about the diagnosis in order to seek treatment or to decide how they are living in the light of that knowledge. The genetic differences observed by chance in the conduct of medical research in the field should be in line with the rules observed by those who are accidentally involved in performing a service study, such as when asymptomatic tumours are identified by chance. In view of clear legal development in recent years in which a person has his own data and information about himself, it is inevitable to interpret the laws of the constitution in order to ensure that the person's right to obtain all the latest and best information about himself. Such a court cannot succumb to the rights of someone who does not want access to information. In December 2016, Kristján Þór Júlíusson, the then health minister, appointed a team to provide suggestions on the use of genetic information for individual prevention. Special attention was to be given to the communication of genetic differences in the BRCA2 gene. This was followed by four articles published by Icelandic genetics in the March 2015 issue on the results of an electrical analysis of the genetics of 7.600 Icelands in Nature Genetics magazine, which raised global attention. The newspaper reported that in Iceland there were over 2,000 people who carried special genetic differences in the BRCA2 gene, which carried an increasing risk of cancer. Such information can help you find these people and alert them to potential dangers. It is estimated that up to 0.8% of the Icelandic population have the mutation 999del5 in the BRCA2 gene, but only a small proportion of this group have developed a genetic scan. Icelandic genetic analysis of encrypted data on more than 1,000 of the Icelanders with a pathogenic mutation in the BRCA2 gene. Considering that the company has a DNA sample of half the population, it can be surmounted that some 2,000 Icelanders have the mutation. The mutation carries a high risk of developing hereditary breast cancer and ovarian cancer, while there is an 86% chance that women diagnosed with severe cancer may develop it, but this ratio is lower in males. This has been found to be associated with head, neck and upper gastrointestinal cancer and evidence of an increased risk of other organs such as the stomach, bladder in both sexes and the cervix of women. Men with the mutation are three and a half times more likely to develop prostate and pancreatic cancer. They are younger and more severe and advanced in diagnosis. Thus, the mortality rate in men diagnosed with prostate cancer and presenting with BRCA2 mutation is twice that of those diagnosed and not having the mutation. Most people with that mutation have no idea, but some measures can be taken to reduce the risk of developing cancer if they are due to be notified in time. Periodic monitoring and screening are among the measures that can be taken, and many women have chosen to have breast-feeding prevention and to have their ovaries removed. Although the secretive information on the individual mutation is available, a health minister's group concluded in May 2018 that this information should not be provided to individuals unless the individual requested it personally. It is normal for people to have a personal choice about whether, when, and under what circumstances they will receive information on their genotype. The team believes that such changes must be made in health care, on the Internet of a surgeon's office. Thus, a person who enrolled in a health environment can choose to access that information. The committee stressed that all communication is performed within the medical facility and that appropriate genetic counseling is given. At that time, the group thought that there could be a special provision in a personal protection law that went beyond that. It would be unlikely to last at 71nd. the constitution which has a direct connection to Article 8. European Convention of Human Rights. Then the Commission pointed out that the Supreme Court confirmed that the medical information in terms of the terms of the constitution, such as other personal details. In May last, the Icelandic genetic analysis of the website, Gengerd.is, which allows people to ask themselves by a simple operation to know if they are genetically carriers of these mutations. The website was thought to react as a response to the work force's position that life threatening should not be initially contacted and warned of so that they could act as preventive measures. Kári Stefánsson, director of Icelandic genetic analysis, has expressed his view that the public interest demands that genetic carriers be informed about mutation in BRCA2 gene because of the seriousness of the case. However, lawyers often refer to the privacy protected by a constitution as well as to the right not to know about genetic research is protected by the European Convention of Human Rights. Kári has unappreciated the results of the group of work, offering home the risk of missing out on vital medical care. The mutation causes cancer in relatively young people, and it is less likely to fear dangerous diseases. It is too great a sacrifice, even though only one woman loses that information and does not have the opportunity to improve her life - style. In fact, carrying the BRCA2 mutation is minimally different and should have asymptomatic cancer. It is relatively simple to use the Web site to get the information and then respond to it. When the report with the bill was written, 33,000 people had requested this information, and the Icelandic genetic analysis had not shown about 10,000 of them, but they were invited to go to a research service center. Clearly, then, this method is not sufficient to reach all who need to be notified. A much lower number of data has been requested in the age group of 18◯25 years than in other age groups, which is a major concern since people with the BRCA2 mutation often develop cancers at an early age. It may therefore be reasoned that unless all of us enter their specific request that the information be ignored, the law needs to be changed. The discussion is important, but unfortunately it is usually the basis for those who do not wish to be informed about the morbidity of genetic differences and those who feel that the right not to want to know is beyond the right to be informed. There is evidence to suggest that public opinion is more positive than would be expected from those who usually express themselves on that subject. Women who examined cancer at the cancer center of the cancer club from October 12 to November 20, 2015 were offered the opportunity to answer whether they were in favor or in great favor of the genetic information available for scientific research being used to inform those who are from the high risk groups. Nearly all the women wanted that information, or 97% of them. It would be reasonable to assign the surgeon general to receive reports of random diagnosis or severe genetic differences that are overwhelmingly likely to lead to serious diseases that can be dealt with in some way. The Commission would then be responsible for taking data and covering appropriate medical care to contact the relevant person and inform them of the potential treatment. It is also necessary to add to the list 1 mg. 25. The law, to make it clear, also applies to data analysis. The arrangement to protect the right of those who do not wish to receive such information is 4 mg. 7. track No. 110/2000, on biomarkers and pools of health information. President. I suppose this bill is going to run to what? The welfare committee following the 1st.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u166	Madam President. Thank you. A pilot for the history and review of the subject of the bill that I consider to be very important and urgent. However, I had two or three questions to listen to. A senator will review this. This may, first of all, be the definition of a serious disease, who it is, i.e. how clearly these serious diseases exist! Then, too, because of reason, I think about the other one. One authority mentioned that this is often referred to by those who do not want to be informed. I completely agree with that. It fits in at least my outlook on life, that I control myself what I'm informed of or not. Then I wonder about a possible problem, I don't know if it's a problem, but, of course, diseases are different, and you may want to know if you have a particular disease or if you have a specific genetic change that's leading to an increased risk. Such a person may not want to know if he or she is exposed to some other disease. So I wondered if these and these tests are being carried out, this and this, and you can almost check a box and say: If I feel in this study, I want to know, but if it's here, I don't want to know. This may make a difference, I think, so I'm asking, "Is this something that tourists have wondered about?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u167	Madam President. The bill tells us that a person is informed if he has a serious illness that can be dealt with, but we do not talk about diseases that cannot be treated. There's a list of these diseases. Then, of course, there is a professional assessment of health professionals as to what is serious and what can be done to improve life expectancy or prevent serious illness. There are various diseases that can't be repaired or that little can be repaired, such as alzheimer, which we have. Talk about being one of the diseases that would then not be spoken of. A key factor is that we can respond. Then, about the question why. A senator I think can only be an update. But the opening point for us that brings the bill is the answer to this question: What do you do if you know that a person is in danger or that you can do something to prevent him from getting seriously ill? It's that exit point. However, we also want to be careful that the rights of those who don't want to know, and we feel that this is the way to go rather than say that those who want to know, should be told. I believe that experience with the European Commission at the Icelandic Genetic Research is an obvious indication that this is not possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u168	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for very clear and clear answers. I have no doubt about the definition of a serious illness, and it seems to me that this is a very reasonable approach. Likewise, I would like to thank you for being anxious about the possible implementation of the other thing, that you can, to some extent, choose what you want to be informed about and what you don't. You might think it would be uncomfortable to be told inevitably that you might have an illness, and you wonder: " Is this one, this one or this one? I want to know about this, but not the other one. Thank you very much for your clear answers. I know you'll figure this out.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u169	Madam President. Actually, there was no question. Senator. But I just want to take this opportunity to say that if you like. Cancer is discovered by chance, showing analysis that the life expectancy of those diagnosed by chance is greater than that of the others. If you go to your doctor and your doctor may think you have pneumonia and have an image scan, and you find that you have a tumour, a procedure will begin. It's uncomfortable to know that you have a tumour, but it's better to find out, not because life expectancy increases.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u170	Madam President. First thing I want to do is thank you for your background, boy. Senator Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter, thank you very much. I would like to take this discussion to heart at first, which was just here. It may well be, as was said here, that a serious illness is not melancholy enough. In another place, I have wondered if we should talk about the threat of life. It may embrace that thought and, in particular, the answer to the reason. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter for this inquiry. What I feel is that we now have technology that gives people the opportunity to get this information before it's even done, i.e. This information may then be acquired, and it is a responsibility for one's own health. I think that's very important. There's been an informed agreement that I think is the right approach and I personally, based on my own experience, is sure that people want this access. These are important information, and as shown in the report on the bill, this will save many lives and not just save them enough but will also enhance people's quality of life, which is also a very important factor. Already, as noted earlier, genetic factors are being discovered by chance, and it is a question of what is being done with that information. That's why I think it's very important that we here in the right and regular routine routine, because I'm pretty sure that many people have this mutation, as we have received information about without knowing it, and I assume that they would want to know that in order to respond. I really hope this bill gets a track crew.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u171	Madam President. I'm just going to say a few words to express my joy with this case that I was invited to be with a moving agent and that I am very pleased with. I'm one of those who thought that informed consent made the matter better, and rather than spending time doing what's positive in this matter -- it's been over well, and if you think it out of public interest, this is a good thing, that's just the way, the point is there - there's always a sign you can find. A transporter was well - versed earlier, on the other hand, a administrative right to privacy and then the right to remain ignorant. I'm not worried that there will be a very serious issue in this case, but I'm still very pleased with the defence that's struck, and this is an informed agreement. However, technology goes so fast, faster, but we can actually support it, and once the law has been opened to such announcemental activities, we think of opportunities for moral opinions or social pressure or anything else, and then, suddenly, we're not necessarily talking about life - threatening diseases, but everything else. That's why I think it's important in this important matter that we keep open that people can say, "I don't want to know. " When it's assumed that I can't really support myself, not in my wildest nightmares, that people have something to do with this matter. I look forward to seeing the Council vote on this crucial change of law.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u172	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a hearing of the expansion of the U.S. rescue fleet. The first transporter on this matter is why. Páll Þór Gunnarsson and the importers have a problem. Einarsson Dögg Gunnarsdóttir Sigurbjörnsdóttir, Katrín Friðriksson, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, Haraldur Hafliðason, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, Ólafur Bragi Kárason, Sveinsson Björn, Friðbjörg Bogi, Sigurður Góðnarsson, Hjálmar Boglglíri Köllurðksson, Göððurksson Þorsteinn, Víglundsson. The suggestion reads: ▪ The General concludes to hide the government to help restore the larger rescue ships of the Landsaving Society with financial contributions from a government fund of up to 100 million. K. each year for the next ten years. The accident - defense union of Landsbourg will be responsible for the operation of the ships in a manner comparable to that of today. The article with this suggestion is attributed very well to the need and motive of the proposal, and I'm going to explain the main points presented there. In an effort to renew the society's rescue fleet, the accident - saving Society of Landsbourg intends to take action. The current rescue ships are in their years and do not have the needed speed so that response time can be minimized to search and rescue in line with the development of seas and changes in the design and construction of ships and boats in recent years. In 2004, however, the disaster - saving society of Landsbourg has run a rescue ship almost since the establishment of Iceland's accident - control society, a major step taken when the decision was made to increase the number of rescue ships around the country and form a continuous chain of rescue ships, in order to increase safety for sailors. That effort ended in 2005 with the work Closed Circle. At present, the Society runs 13 rescue ships and is all owned except the rescue ship Thor, in the Western Islands, owned by the Western Rescue Association. The oldest ship is built in 1977, the youngest in 1988. The accident - control society of Landsbourg has had a great deal of cooperation with governments and the National Guard on the rescue ships. The Society made a special agreement with the Minister of the Interior in 2013 for the payment of state funds in 2014-2021 for maintenance and restoration of the Society's rescue ships. The related agreements and contributions have made a big difference for the maintenance of the ships and can ensure that they can be kept in good repair from age and time spent. Continuous review of the location of the command has been performed and assessments of the location of 2006, 2011 and 2017 have been performed. This assessment has been made in close collaboration with the accident - protection society of Landsbourg and Landland Guard, taking into account the level and nature of sea travel and the frequency of discharges. Then the National Guard is in favor of plans for the construction of the Society's rescue fleet. The renovating project that the Landsbourg Society is now planning on for the 90th anniversary of the Society is the largest investment project ever to be faced by the Society. The total cost may be estimated to be approximately 2 billion francs. and it can be assumed that the new construction and renewal of the rescue fleet will take up to ten years. Clearly, such investments cannot come together with self - sufficiency alone and can be done only with powerful government support and stakeholders. In this light, the movers suggest that the government be assigned to run for a crew with the National Accident Control Association for the renewal of the larger community rescue ships. It is reasonable to believe that the State will be up to the funding of the project by means of a donation of up to 100,000,000 dollars. each year for the next ten years. The movers then assume that the Landsbuster Society will fund the posts of the project and will be responsible for the operation of the ships in the same structure as currently available. I suggest, in agreement with the first transporter, okay? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, the proposal for a professional discussion at the end of the discussion. Environmental and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u173	V.E.G. President. I'm not really going to ask who. paritaprevir ... intothesurrection. I am glad that the matter is on schedule and is on. As indicated by the proposal, the rescue fleet has grown very old and has been very hard for the rescue forces to drive it in. We have been fortunate in recent years, since sea accidents, or human harm, have not been reported. But this is a big example and a great boatload that needs to be in good repair around the country. So I have no question to ask the senator, but I am glad that the matter has begun. I hope they get a shot and a payback through the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u174	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll, the son of Jónsson, was victorious for his reply. Hv. A senator is a traveller on the subject, on the worthy task that is important, as it were. A senator came in. We are fortunate to have as powerful a rescue force as the accident - control organization of Landsbourg. It is suggested that this is a great campaign under attack and is essential, since the fleet has grown old. I know why. A senator knows this very well. I have no doubt that this worthy and important project will receive a positive subversive and professional, as it should, and a discussion on the subject. Environmental and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u175	A respectable president. It is appropriate that this matter be taken up for so late in the evening, I would say. The matter was previously submitted to the 144th legislation, then 259th, again at the 145th legislation, then the 259th matter, and the last, the last, the 148th, and the 165th, a case. Now it's 181st. I'd like to keep this 259th thing going, but I'm afraid it didn't work out. That's it. I generally refer to my first speech during the last session. There's been little change since then in these issues, unless more positive reports have been made of the efforts to improve the workweek shortening of the workweek, including in Reykjavík. I mentioned at the last legislature that it was a good idea not to have been cut in the Senate, so the matter would just remain in the welfare committee and finished there. We'd save 1st. and the committee immediately had something to start with when a new assembly came together. What I'm stressing beyond that is 8 p.m. correct approximately 40 hours of work week. It says that wages are not impaired when working hours are changed according to these laws. During the last assembly, I made it necessary for the committee to review whether this article was necessary or not. I was going to remove eight. from this edition, but I noticed it just before I moved the case that the request had fallen into the lecture. I'm not sure it was possible to distribute a printed copy. The purpose of this law, to make it perfectly clear, is an issue of rights, i.e. changing the number of hours spent working from 40 to 35. The daily worktime is not expected to automatically reduce this, i.e. that you start to work less hours automatically. Also, salary is not expected to remain unchanged compared to a 40 hour work week, i.e. It is not expected that people will have the same salary as they earn 40 hours of day work, i.e. Today, people who do 40 hours of work and then start working 35 hours a week. It is assumed that if people continue to work 40 hours a week, as in the past, they will actually increase one extra job hours. This is the motivation for employers to reduce their jobs slightly towards 35 hours, as when the 40 - hour workweek law was valid, i.e. from 44 hours to 40 hours, 40 hours of work weeks were not reached until 2012. This is part of a process, and there is another reason why the law should not enter force until January 1, 2021, which is so that the workforce and sectoral sector members can agree on system changes and agreements in the direction of this correct change in the number of hours of work. This is really just a definition of how many hours each week work. There is another, and always there will be a part of the contract between the labour market partners. There is also something remarkable about the reviews received from this bill from, for example. The union of industry and ASI believe that they are being put on their right to negotiate for purchases and benefits. It is not the purpose of this law to walk on that right, for it also states in law about 40 hours of work a week that the overall body of employees and employers does not really need to comply with these laws. I don't quite understand why they're complaining about this change. She doesn't mean them if they choose to have it. To try to make this most clear. The welfare committee to which I speak is not expected to impair people's salary, nor is it expected that the working time will change automatically. It's a little difficult to grasp, and there's no doubt about it. the bill as it is now should be included or not, whether or not you are taking people's rights if the article is removed or if the article is being given rights if the article goes on or whatever the case is 8 grm. CYP3A4 inhibition by CYP3A4 and CYP3A4 I hand it over to the Committee to develop the bill in that way, if there's any fault on this point, to make it clear in the 2nd. That's 8 p.m. need to be, or go, or if there are any other adjustments to achieve this objective, i.e. whether a person who works 40 hours now on a fixed salary and goes down to 35 hours after this bill without any other changes will be paid as if working 35 hours as compared to a 40 - hour work week at the present time. On the other hand, if he chooses to win all 40 hours just as he is now, he will actually be rewarded with a raise, for one hour of it is a work schedule that is now a day's work. We try to leave both spaces so that this is not an invitation to reduce the time of work or to force employers to earn the same salary for a 35 - hour work week as it was prior to a 40 - hour work week. This bill works on the rights that have always been fighting for. It has always been a right battle to shorten the week of work. In the past, wages have been forced into that shoe at the same time. This bill, precisely by not taking effect until 2021, allows workers to cope with the growing rights of people to have fewer day hours a week.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u176	Madam President. I'm not going to extend this discussion much, but I would still like to promote that it is consistent with our policy in the United States to shorten the week of work. It may be more reasonable to negotiate at work, but it is important to shorten the workweek. I look at matters primarily out of the interest of children and the value of prevention, that there is more time for family and children with adults. I agree with the bill that shorter work weeks will improve quality of life and not reduce production.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-18-22.u177	A respectable president. It is certainly the purpose of the bill in today's community to shorten the workweek by this step. I'd love to go further, but this is the first step. Iceland is very uncomfortable in OECD comparator groups about balance between work and privacy. Of course, children's situation is very bad. It is also a very serious thing in our mental - health society. The word has a large increase in the number of micro-organism in terms of e.g. ... becauseof the pressures that can be attributed to a long work period in Iceland. So, without question, it is health - care, as well as justice and family matters, to start taking these steps as soon as possible, to shorten the workweek. When people talk about less production in that relationship, there is actually some evidence that this is really the opposite; to shorten the workweek rather than reduce its production. This shows the figures and information that we receive from the efforts currently taking on thebbreviated week of work in Reykjavík. They show that people feel better, they use their time better, and they do more work because they get room and time to rest.
