ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u1	Borist has a letter from the financial and economic secretary asking for every appointment to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. 175, on payment of the tax-free assessment special savings applications from Björn Leví son of Gunnarsson. There have been two letters sent from a marine economist and agri-gri-gri-gri-gritary minister requesting deadlines to provide written answers to inquiries. 170 for the research on acidification of the sea, from Rósa Björk Brynjólfsdóttir's daughter, and on the threshing floor. 193, the noise pollution at sea, from Smári Mccarthy and Björn Leví Gunnarsson's son. A letter has been received from the Environment and Resource Minister where request is made in order to provide a written answer for the requested request. 169, on action against acidification, from Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörðurdóttir. Borist has received a letter from a health minister asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a covering query. 191, the bioavailability of a mental - health service from Olga Margrét Cilia. Finally, two letters have been received from the travel, industrial, and innovation secretary where request is made in order to provide written answers to the requested application. 57, on the willies, from Óli Björn Kárason, and on the threshing floor. 192, on the energy switch action programme, from Olga Margrét Cilia.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u2	Borist has a letter from the 11th. We're out of Suðvest. "Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son, "that he will not be able to attend next week. As reported on the Generals web, so on Monday, February 12th, the General Assembly took up residence. 1 strategist on the left movement's list a green bid in the district, Una Hildardóttir. She has previously taken her place at the General Assembly and is welcome back to work. At the same time, there has been a letter received from Þórunn the Egilsdóttir of Egls, the 4th. That's the north side. "that she will not be able to attend next week. Today, then, at the General Assembly 1, a deputy of the Apostle Party's list of districts, Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson. Similarly, he has taken his seat before the Council, and he is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u3	Borist has a letter from the fourth. We're out of Suðvest. "The Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, "that he will not be able to attend next week. So it is requested that Adda María Jóhannsdóttir be seated at the General Assembly today, a 2nd deputy member of the United States Association list in the district. 1 strategist on a list has been calling incursion. At the request of the president, the national government has assembled and issued an election letter for the Adda of Ada María Jóhannsdóttir. At the same time, the board of directors and monitoring committees have been called to discuss the stock market.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u4	Mr. President. As mentioned in the case of the highest. The President has arranged for a board of directors and patrols to review a convention for the Adda of María Jóhannsdóttir from the National Committee. It was consistent with the Commission's conclusion not to make comments to the theme letter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u5	The Commission and monitoring committee recommends the approval of the approved convention and considered it approved without a vote if no protests are moved. Adda María Jóhannsdóttir has not previously sat in the General Assembly, so the commitment to the Constitution is to be signed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u6	Adda María Jóhannsdóttir has signed her pledge to the Constitution and is welcome to work at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u7	The president has decided, in the beginning of a discussion with the presidents of all Congress, that the program for unprepared queries may last longer Monday, but a body of Congress assumes that up to six queries will be found. Is that particularly true in view of the fact that there are now eight members of the Council now or more members of the Council today, more than ever before? If this feature begins to begin, unprepared queries, and if necessary, it will be longer today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u8	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Education and Culture, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Environmental and Resource Ministers, Foreign Minister, Transport and Regional Ministers, and Ministers of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u9	Mr. President. Last Tuesday evening, a sudden decision was made to accept the government's sale at Arion Bank. Timing is important. Making a decision that night made it possible to build on old numbers instead of on new ones. This may be relevant for prospective buyers, but especially for the council. It's no secret to the buyer, Copenhagen, is partly owned by hedge funds. By these exercises, the company gains 70% in one of three Icelandic banks. Does a minister feel that the hedge fund behaves in a natural way? Does she feel that such funds, which few really know, do have more in the banks than the word is? Why doesn't the sale take place in an open outlet? The price for the object may not be found at all. V.E.G. Secretary of finance has said that these 23 billion are acceptable prices. It's the highest. A minister agreed that it could be excluded that the State could have received more from the object? Would a minister agree that such an additional supplement could have been useful in strengthening a weak welfare system? During the last term, they spoke at the highest rate. Prime Minister on the importance of hurrying, deciding in a way that the banking system would be reorganized. It has proclaimed the construction and reorganization of the banking system. What changed on that one night? Why is this hurry, chief? Prime Minister? I want to know if people have been pressured to speed up the sales and the interests of government and the public from this speed. Does a secretary of business around sales seem to increase the confidence of the public in politics and the financial system? I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: Are the owners of Arion banks playing with governments?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u10	Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. It is important to have an opportunity to explain what is happening. A senator, in effect, calls the government's involvement in Arion's bank. But in reality, the decision to accept a bill of purchase is to be taken by a senator. Like what? A senator is likely aware of the prenuption of the stockholder's agreement in 2009 at the time of the left movement ▪ green supply and the United States where the prenuptial agreement was passed into the stockholder agreement. When the State decided to deposit a donation in Arion, 9.8 billion dollars. was the prenuptial saying, but it's that this party can choose to buy the state out of Arion Bank at any time, i.e. The options for buying are fruitless. He is not to be confused with the premium, which has also been a significant subject for discussion in this hall. I'm going to remember that these events date back to 2009 when we were trying to learn from the collapse and its application. It was also decided to set up an institution, the government's Bankament, in order to ensure that the financial holdings of the State are organized into a special institution. That there were certain arms lengths, so the politicians did not directly shop for the sale of banks themselves. I'd like to recall that it's the Bank Office that's taken this property. It is her choice now to determine whether the 2009 SmPC laws, later set to law by the then legal secretary of finance of 2012, to sell parts of the state of finance. It specifically stipulates that the prenuption of the prenup will not result in the use of standard political treatment for sale of property items from the State. I think it's very important to answer a question. A senator recalls that I have had some mistakes in the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u11	Mr. President. From now on, I ask again, " Are the owners of Arion banks playing with governments? ' Selling parts of Arion's own bank to determine if the bank's real value will be held, thus preventing higher stability options from coming into the state's budget and using the premium? Was this afforded in the 2015 stability contracts? It's the highest. Would not the prime minister agree that these contracts need to be published so that they can be made clear? And finally: The sliding process is characterised by opaqueness. Only a few individuals who do not know who have very much interest in these matters. Does this have anything to do with Valitor's play? Is a new account coming up, chief. Prime Minister? Are we once again witnessing developments in which the interests of the common people will be put at ease in behalf of some rich individuals who will mate the hook?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u12	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator back there. I agree completely with what. Senator. It's got to be the most transparent country around here. The stock accord has been published, the stability conditions have not been published, the government has requested to be published at Iceland's Secret Bank. In addition, information on these issues has been decided to be submitted at a later meeting of the Economic and Business Committee so that the Committee will provide information on the stability and stability conditions. I couldn't agree more. A senator that is to be as transparent as possible because this is a huge public interest. However, it must also be recognized that in the past, the State has made certain agreements, 2009, which were later confirmed in the council. The law that I referred to since 2012 also applies to them. This shareholder meeting was then added in connection with the 2015 and 2016 stabilisation proposals, and the Annex Meeting was likely made early in 2016. I think it's just very important that all of this be put on board of the Economic and Business Committee so that the council has a full position to consider these matters well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u13	Mr. President. As we have repeatedly seen and heard, the government seems to have no single policy in the future of the financial system except the highest. The prime minister has expressed deep concern over the affairs of the state of the bank market. So much concern seems to be made by a minister of these activities that he thinks it is better for a hedge fund, or it seems that anyone, since the people in the bank are not properly known who are behind it, to have authority over a systematicly important bank, than that the state has too much in the bank for a short time. The government has lost control of events. She's underestimated the opportunities she's had to intervene in, including has underestimated the government's purchase rights with the consequences, as we can see now, as discussed in a previous inquiry, that these people, the hedge fund, are going to go on and want to apply the rules of the stock agreement from 2009, since September 2009. Something that would have come to them only because the government had let them this far. What is the response? Yes, I heard an interview at the highest. Prime Minister that she described that this was not over, although she repeated her concern over how much the state had in the banks, since the price and the options for buying were still to be negotiated. A minister expressed it, of course, depending on the price he negotiated. Now it is claimed by these sources that I understand that they feel that they have nothing to negotiate with the State. That's why I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: Which is correct? What the minister said in an interview, that prices are yet to be negotiated, or that there is a price for the state to sell?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u14	Mr. President. Thank you. A member of the council, though, expresses a measure of concern over voicelessness. A senator who's been on the stand for quite some time, seems to be. I hope he takes care of himself and his health. Here we go. A senator ups and talks about total failure in the financial affairs of the world. I say, "Have a why." A senator's not tracking the trend? Not just at the time when he was prime minister, 2013◯2016, to which he now gives a considerable witness, but to the developments that have been here since 2008? I mentioned how we have really changed the financial system's order, set up the Agency of the Bankis administration to take part of the state's financial institutions, set down and covered a considerable part of the financial system, and now being involved in a white book going over what is going on, and we can call what we especially want to do in legislation and regulations about the financial system in addition to the changes we've made through the European principle that we're part of. There's no direction in these matters. However, what may be the result? A senator resented that not all of us agree on the course that we are in. A senator has that the state should possess the entire financial system that I have heard is its policy, i.e. that the State should own the entire financial system. That's not what I said before the election. That's what most groups didn't say before elections. I think we have to look for that to happen, we just don't agree. It's not the same as not having a policy. As I told you earlier when it's time for the premium, there was a conversation about that matter, me and the other. Senator. I think it's important to think that the last spring was covered in detail. A senator felt that the government's premium had become active. It wasn't the result of either the local government or the economic and commercial committee where I was sitting myself. We did not think that the premium would have been activated after reviewing the matter. Will prices be negotiated? In 2009, there are requirements for the 2009 stock accord to determine the price to be calculated. However, this is not to say that it agrees completely when you sit down and discuss how exactly to aim for it. [[The president calls.]] But they are given to the stock exchange. On the other hand, a common understanding needs to be met on that basis.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u15	Mr. President. Thank you for your concern. Minister of my health, but she wanted to be as concerned about the health of the financial system in Iceland. These symptoms are very severe and are increasing. From the very beginning, this matter seems to have been run on the basis of the hedge fund, how they wanted to see things develop. Governments have taken no action, hiding mostly behind institutions, such as the Supreme Court. The prime minister, in fact, does do this in large political matters. The questions turn to the future of the financial system in Iceland and then allow for the highest. The minister sees to turn his back and insists that I want the State to have the rest of the financial system for the future. Of course I don't want to. However, I want the government to protect its interests, which has not been done in these matters. Now it looks like the highest. A minister may have disagreed with herself from an interview a few days ago when she claimed that a price was yet to be negotiated. In reality, the price is at hand, but a minister may intend to question the importance of the interpretation. Is it the minister's assessment that this is unclear that the State will try to interpret its interpretation? [[The president calls.]] But unfortunately, Mr. President, in view of experience, you are afraid that when there is an interpretation war between this government and the hedge fund, it is quite clear who is better off in that business. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u16	Mr. President. A social agreement was made at its time, in contrast with the stability criteria. A senator, then prime minister, did not publish. I hope they'll be printed. It is very important that all of this should be brought up on the surface. That's where we'd better go. A senator to agree, although it was not his conclusion at the time to publish the stability conditions. It is then assumed that a measure of fruitage will be expected at the body meeting. There is also the possibility that the government's banking agency has the legal responsibility to review this and see if those who want to apply the options and representatives of the State in the Bank of State agree on the interpretation of the standards there are. Hv. A senator can come up here and try to make it suspicious that I want to trust the institutions of the community that we set up to take the interests of the public because we didn't want to repeat mistakes from the past. On the other hand, I'm going to trust those institutions that have taken over the property of the State and that there has been a good work there at any given time. However, I strongly emphasize that the Council has complete access to that data and information so that it can be evaluated by the general council himself. [[The president calls.]] That's what we'll get. A senator to agree. But let us not think that there would be a return to the time when the Ministers were picking up the financial share of the state without any professional institutions being there necessarily a good time. From the early years of this century, we have good experience.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u17	A respectable president. Prior to New Year's season, interesting things became available in budgets that were canceled from a preliminary law on remuneration in high schools. Piratar and I had exactly the adjustment of the proposal, but the government's suggestion to extend that law, apparently, was suddenly brought back at a meeting. In contrast, funding for their expenses was lacking. Of course, the piranha had a suggestion for funding the terms we wanted to cancel, up to 300 million, the amount given to the committee for the medical expenses below. There was a certain theater in the backyard where it was not quite accurate, there was something else, but only the cost of material things. As a result, a change in proposal was made about 250 million that would be replaced by the loss of cost and provisional regulations. Now I would be interested to know, because we didn't have time to find out exactly what that number is; it must have been calculated. In addition: What school year does the breakdown of this preliminary principle have? Likely, this is before 2018,2019 because it was being taken out of the budget now. But because it was taken out of the budget for the New Year's Day, I wondered, " Is this also affecting me in 2017,2018? '
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u18	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. This is of great need because the council together made a decision to cancel material expenses at high school. This is in line with the policy we follow, and is especially good for those who are in training and working. That's right. That's right. A senator, it was not clear exactly what this cost was. What the Ministry subsequently did was that, as early as January 2, representatives of the Ministry found the cost to the schools and others. This work has been going on for quite some time because the article is divided into two parts, a- and b-parts, and there are a bit different how the schools have defined the physical fees, but the definition is that they must not take charge of students if the high school decides that this is part of the study. This request was immediately sent to the school, and it seems to me that the cost is around 250,280 million, but the final number has not yet arrived. But the important thing is that this is especially helpful for those who are in the field of work and education. Reassure all the credit that came into this matter and reduce the cost of high school.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u19	A respectable president. They needed an answer to the second question, i.e. the year of study that will take effect. A letter from the Ministry says, by permission of the president: ▪ As we know, some of the school's collections were based on provisional regulations in the laws that flowed from the autumn days of 2016, making this part too difficult to pay. Apparently, these 250 million are being used as approved by the 2018 budget, probably for the 2018 /2019 school year, in order to pay back what was overcrowded from 2016's fall days. I don't quite understand. I don't understand where that money should come from. In the sense of the council, we are accepting increased laws, increased funding, the cost of matter. If you are using a portion of that money to pay you back again, I don't fully understand how these 250 million are going to do it overall. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u20	A respectable president. Thanks again for the inquiry. The budget approved by the council applies to the 2018 budget. In terms of material expenditures that were collected without the legal authority, we will use the Ministry's reserve fund to bring about this. As noted, the provisional principle was not extended in 2017. That's why this money has to be paid back. The colleges were all, I started it on January 2nd, to see how it was growing. Of course, it is shocking when humans fail to do better than they were then. However, the matter is well controlled. We use the funds available at the Ministry, which are in reserve, but the financial authority that the Council agreed on will apply to 2018.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u21	A respectable president. I'm gonna ask you a question to the highest level. Minister of Justice for Railion Affairs. I'd say it's kind of a joke. It is quite remarkable that there is such a low income foundation that the poor cannot apply for adulation, not even in very rare cases. If a husband and wife are involved, you will have a 125 - year - old mark. K. the income of each individual, the couple of 250 you. At a point, 3 million. K. every year. That's 125 up. K. but the minimum wage in this country is 300 far. K. I say, how on earth can it be like this? I don't know about anyone who can survive that money, people must pay more than that. If a person is called for by this standard, he will pass through the courts of the parish Committee. I call a parish office nothing more than a court. It is clearly stated in the law that failure will be granted only if there is sufficient grounds for a lawsuit or a defense, and it can be considered otherwise that the charge is paid by public funds. It's a big deal to ask for immunity. I've tried. I applied for a nurse, and it took me almost ten years to get it. Ten years, think about it. Who was I fighting? A insurance company with lots of money, lots of lawyers. The answer: No, you? You're a pawn, you don't get a nurse. What did I have to do? I had to prove that a vehicular committee would do some medical nonsense because it was suddenly called a doctor and knew all about infections. The nonsense in this system is incredible. I'm asking the Minister of Justice if she's going to do something about this matter right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u22	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. True, the past years have been very discussed with various subjects. Hv. A senator here brings up cases that are often discussed in courts called insurance cases, accidents, and other matters. You're right. A senator mentioned, considering an enormous amount of money, must be recognized. It is based on the grossly low income of the person who wishes to be a slave. However, conditions are also set out that can replace the revenue target, i.e. if the matter seems to have a significant impact on the general public. If this is of general significance, it may be considered to overlook the narrow income limits. I'm having it checked now if it's not time to revise this budget specifically. I also have every reason to consider only the arrangements for these issues that are often similar, such as. The accidents that humans have tried to negotiate with insurance companies. Of course, the best thing would be if these matters could be resolved in ways other than those in the courts. I can inform you here that there will be a reexamination of the documents in the near future, especially the financial boundaries.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u23	A respectable president. The answers aren't great. But there is something else in this matter. Now we're finishing a United Nations contract on the rights of disabled people. According to this, the disabled will no doubt have to defend their rights, and there will be little desire for them. Other things always forget, i.e. that insurance companies make money. If a person cannot go against insurance companies, he will make money. Where's the money going? They go to a credit fund, a so-called insurance debt that is never made up. I feel that such funds are made up at regular intervals, with five or ten years apart, and money used, that it is legally legal that the money there will be used in part to help people fight insurance companies. After two or three years of an accident, the economy has become bad. People are completely out of money, and they don't have a chance to fight insurance companies unless they get harassed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u24	A respectable president. I'm impressed. A senator demeans my words with little news when I declare that I intend to revise the limits of money for a rape. But I'll repeat that, and a rebuke heard by someone else, that it will be done in the near future. I'd like to mention, too, because of what. A senator specifically discussed insurance companies, these accidents, which, of course, are a serious matter for anyone who lands in them and has to attend their rights, the fact that it is available in the Constitution of my bill for changes in damage laws, where a long-term rise is expected to help calculate damages. All I'm expecting is to get along well with what. A senator for the release of that matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u25	A respectable president. News reports earlier than the weekend discussed the assessment of prices on food prices in the last two years. It stated that the price of food prices on dairy products was completely reduced in general. The average increase in dairy products was 7.4%, while other food products in the country had been reduced by 0.6% over a two - year period. We now live in an environment where competition is severely restricted when it comes to the milk industry. To a large extent, industry is abjective of competitive behavior. It has also been shown, in response to my inquiry to the highest level. In the 14 years since the legislation was implemented, milk products have increased in excess of all other food in the country, beyond the index prices without housing, in excess of other agricultural products such as meat or vegetables, ranging from 10 to 20%, and beyond other drinking products, 45% in the 14 years. I don't think there is a need for further witnesses to the effect of lack of competition in this industry. I'd like to ask the highest. Sea dignitary and agricultural minister three simple questions: When it comes to consumer interests, does a minister believe in the benefits of competition? Does a minister know any other explanation for this price development in dairy products but just the obvious lack of competition? Is it not time to change this arrangement in view of the fact that it has certainly paid no benefit to consumers?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u26	A respectable president. Three simple questions come from what? A senator, and I happily welcome them. Of course, I answer my first question with a yes. I believe that competition is good for consumers as well as for those in production. A competition is a matter of opinion. I do not agree, however, with the claim presented in the case of the day. A senator, for example, is restricted by competition in the milk industry. I don't think that's right. The dairy industry has the same authority as the one mentioned. The telecommunication market to work on its own markets and to save costs for consumers as well as for manufacturers. It's built into the law. Similarly, no competitive inhibition of milk, i.e. It is possible for anyone to buy milk from the farmers or to bring it to them. It's just that way. Anyone can buy milk from riches if he wants it. Then there is a conflict of claims about how milk has competed with other consumer products. I'm going to take less of it. A senator's survey and results from the University of Economics from 2015, which says that milk has actually increased much less than all other consumer products since 2003 to 2013. In some respects, I'd like to say that the claims on the status and implementation of the milk industry are not entirely right.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u27	Mr. President. I think the easiest thing to do is to stick with the numbers that come out in the answers to the highest. Minister for my request on the price-seated development of dairy products. It makes clear that during the entire period of this enforcation, dairy products have increased considerably more than any other food in the country. It is important to consider in the context that this does not involve any product. This is one of the most important foods in the country's food basket. Mild dairy products, e.g. in the index price of consumption is more than the value of fuel. Thus, it is of utmost importance to all homes. It's obvious from the top answer. Minister, i.e. The written increase in milk products during this 14 years has increased beyond the index price, in excess of other foods, in particular in excess of other drinking products and in excess of other agricultural products. It will be attributed only to the lack of competition, which is severe and crystalst. in that this is an official controlled prices and extensive release from competitive law at the time of e.g. agree and cooperate in this article. [[The president calls.]] That's why I repeat my question to the highest. Minister: Isn't it time to change?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u28	A respectable president. In many cases, changes are being made to the agriculture. I don't know. For a senator, it takes time and effort to work with agricultural production. This is the nature of the matter according to a long process. We know in our history how to change the land of agriculture. I agree with that. A senator says that this is the most important home in the country. Therefore, it must be the common interests of all of us here working on them in order to achieve changes in the interests of consumers, as well as in the interests of those who have chosen to live and work in this business. In that respect, I hope we will. A senator can gather about the changes that lie ahead of him in these matters. I remind you, again, we have a reexamination of the agricultural products, the livestock agreements. [[The president calls.]] I expect these things to come up for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u29	A respectable president. I don't think there is a need for a variety of people in this hall with members of Parliaments about the horrors the island has experienced in transport, in fact, in the past few years, especially how this has been with the land island crew and how indignious it is before sand and waves. In some respects, though, it is hoped that a new ferry will improve later in the year. These are natural phenomena that we don't have much to say, but one of the factors in this case, which, however, is within our power and we can correct right now, is actually the double punishment done to the island population in the absence of a Marine. It is not enough that the period of sailing will be 6ft in the winter colds, but it will also triple the price, i.e. The fare. It's a double aam that humans get from this. Of course, this is a matter of great justice. It is part of the highway system, and in other respects, it is not a matter of price in the Halfunda tunnel, e.g. increase as the food was lost on both sides. Of course, there's no justice in this. I've only been getting mad at the highest. A secretary of the tunnel who wanted to take the matter up in this chair and have a place of words: Is it not time to correct, though, that small part of the injustice that is so prevalent in humans? It has been said that with a new ferry, this should improve, i.e. That the same fare is the same whether you go to the country or to the village. Is there anything to wait for this, chief? Minister? Can't we fix this now?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u30	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this excellent inquiry and can agree with him that there is a great need to improve transport to the Western Islands, this crucial structure which is in the nature of the situation under specific conditions of transportation. Thus, it has been a competition to try to finish the new ferry, and it is prepared as expected. One of the things I had to deal with when I came into the Ministry, actually not until January, was that, for some reason, it has been largely calculated by a so-called tving vehicle, that it would not be a total electrical vehicle, could not go for electricity. I thought it was important to clear this up because we want to make sure that we achieve our targets on climate and one of the instruments in it is, of course, energy exchange in transport, the power of electricity. Another factor we have been considering is how the inhabitants can use the ferry and the organization within the years, but it always stands out. A senator came in, they order, and he intends to go through the landy sea, but then the weather changes, and then people have to go to the Coyote crew with a lot of time and cost. Therefore, it has been in preparation for the new process of paying the same price. The idea that I can't speed up that decision has been my examination at the Ministry, including due to a tip. A senator, and I am very positive about doing so. We've been identifying the cost of it, of course, it's uncertain because it's the weather that controls it. Another uncertainty factor in this is that we don't know at this point when the ferry will arrive in the fall, but I'm really glad to see if we can't do anything about this right now in the next few months, i.e. Before the new ferry arrives and the summer fishing business begins. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u31	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A secretary of transportation for the answers. I'm gonna try to hit the top only. A minister will only give us further assurance that this little but much injustice will be corrected sooner than later, preferably at the end of the month. I don't know if people in general realize what kind of taxes are in there, what tax is laid on those living there. In fact, it can be estimated that a normal family in the Western Islands will have to be costed to 30,000 to 60,000. a month on a campaign with a Shelf--with a discount, when 40% of it has been taken off. This means that this family will have to have 40,000,500,000 dollars. more in pay in a month than any other person in Iceland just to be equal in this regard. It's just thephelf tax. That's why I want to move on to the secretary of transportation that he will give us a slightly clearer answer to whether this is not going to be fixed in a more predictable future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u32	A respectable president. I reiterate my first answer. This matter has a very positive view. We're identifying the cost of this, what this means. For the past two years, he has probably been less than 40 million, i.e. in March and April. If we were convinced that the ship would arrive at the beginning of September, this would be no problem, we would be entering a new era. But I would have to know a little better before making such a decision. But I am very positive about doing this. It's a matter of righteousness. I agree with what. Senator. This is part of my dealings with the Aegeans from the beginning of my election at Congress 2009, the nature of a case has been high above the level of unjust pay, apart from the duration and the discomfort of having to sail in the village. I'm considering this in a very positive way, hoping to make such a decision sooner than later.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u33	Mr. President. I'm here to discuss the elephant in the living room, payments for members of Congress. I thank the President for the initiative to address the matter immediately on the Presidency Committee. I wondered, though, why the council has not taken sides and informed the media, answered the questions the media have asked about, regarding all the costs of travel, not just the drive of those who drive from home and back every day but all the travel expenses, housing costs, the cost of rental cars, etc. This weekend, for example, we received two very different answers from two different types of conversation. National Parliamentaries. On the one hand, a member of the country answered: I am not allowed to decline the cost of housing. On the other hand, another member of the country answered: I have never accepted this payment. We need to increase the confidence of the public at the council. We do not do so by not answering the media. Therefore, I would like to challenge the council to answer all the questions subject to these payments for members of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u34	A respectable president. I got to see a plan on how to publish this cost to members of Congress. It was a similar arrangement as to the answers to my inquiries. But now we had a conversation in Kashlight, a respectable president, where we came from, that was understood to me, with a pretty much the same mind to publish the dislocation as it was in the case of each trip. I would like to encourage the president to continue on a path that seemed to be marked in Castlight, i.e. that any trip paid is specifically stated, the number of miles, that the purpose of each trip is, etc. This shouldn't be a secret. This is done elsewhere. I think it's obvious we're filming this, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u35	A respectable president. I hope we can find the right way to do this without necessarily discussing it here in a pita. But I would like to stress that there is an opacity that the Council may not have experienced as such so far, causing suspicion. The more we can publish these matters all together, the better for the discussion, the better for these senators who enjoy this expense or who use these rights. I would also like to think that it is quite natural for me to come to terms with the different circumstances of members of Congress depending on where they live. Yes, we all live in a country that does not offer an all - time election. Therefore, members of the United States have different circumstances. I think it is important that we distinguish between the arrangements we have and the limits of the arrangement. No matter what the arrangement is, it should be completely transparent. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u36	Mr. President. In the community, there is suspicion about these payments. In my opinion, it's very unnatural that we don't talk about it, even if we have to come up here in a pita to discuss this. It's a delicate matter. Why is it fragile? Because a little bit of the information is being given. We know who drove the most. Now we know who drove the next, but we haven't got any information about who's third, fourth, and fifth. We know who's sixth. This makes it possible that certain members of the council and others are not filming a picture. The discussion is taken out of all contexts, home drive, home drive, flight, and so forth. I think we need to get this all up on the table instead of having this secret concern. That's why I wanted this to be discussed here and now today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u37	A respectable president. I have to say, in this context, I'm not exactly aware of this situation under this team, the President's conference board. I haven't heard from any member of the council here that there's some opposition to publishing all the information that's being tried to do. Hv. The members of the council mentioned here are well aware that the matter was discussed on the Presidency Committee this morning. The matter was also discussed at a meeting of the chairman of a council. The whole thing is being explained. It is a typical popu list event, a respectable president, in my mind to come here and spend the work of the council on this, on the part of the council's president and the council director, to deal with this on a controversial basis, with the aim that all this information will be on the table. No senator has spoken against that. We all agree that this is the case. This unnecessary information here will bring nothing more into the house in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u38	Mr. President. I'm going to express my appreciation for this morning's decision by the presiding committee and the drafts that were put before the prospective members of the council, following how we are going to inform and be more open than ever before. We've been dealing with the fact that the council has been too closed for information on payment to members of the council. Although the information is on the Senate's Web on what it gets, what position it is, and all of that, I have long said that it should be able to look e.g. I'm raised as a senator and prepared to play my role in the council, whatever payment I get, whether it's an expense or something. It should be very simple. I agree that it should only be possible to click on the link which is under a certain journey or meeting or god knows what, where it shows what I was doing. It's not that complicated. I'm just glad that we finally have that place in 2018, but not before, it's happening now, that much of the online but not everything will be understood to the public. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u39	Mr. President. Transport is a great deal of thinking these days and a number of things to do. The focus in this special discussion is on cabs, but according to the current tenet - car regulations, they are considered to be public transportation. As with so many other systems, there is room for improvement. I look forward to having a conversation with the highest. Secretary of transportation and other conditions. Congress on their ideas that changes in this market, or evidence support that a single system is the best thing for the public. The present is the first U.S. Conventional Recontraction proposal for freedom in a cab market suggesting that a secretary of transportation be assigned to eliminate the maximum number of jobs to drive a taxi, reduce the number of supplies required, and open the market for higher competition. A coincidence is that we discuss this matter, the cab market, in a special discussion at the same time as the Parliament's decision is made, showing that coincidences may at times be quite nice. For taxis to do their part in the public transport system, the service must simply be available and affordable. In my opinion, healthy competition is the key to achieving those goals. When more people would be able to park their private cars permanently, they might choose new cabs, buses, and other public transportation in order to do their business with less costs and less stress on our roads, to name just a few. Among the rates of present - day cab - market systems, there is the need for permit workers to drive a cab for main work. This prevents students and individuals with impaired skills in working as cab drivers. There is also a requirement for licence workers to be registered to the car they drive, and that disabilityrs need to give specific recommendations from the Micro-Communicate Association and an insurance manager. It must be natural to wonder whether a course and a test to get a job permit on this market are not sufficient indicators on the ability of all people to drive cabs. It's also time, Mr. President, to increase the freedom of a cab driver in the capital area to choose whether they're working at a cab station or working independently, and to cancel the charges of waiting on a rented station. At last, there is a need to revise the current legal fees under the supervision of a U.S. walking agency. This law inhibits technical development, such as payment through a smartphone program, which is a key factor in opening the Icelandic market for services companies like Uber and elevators known to many people on the outside. This law actually inhibits the development of this market, which, as one knows, is primarily through this technology. This service is based on the contract freedom and the benefits of the shared economy, but it is almost unacceptable to discuss urban transport in particular without having the shared economy, benefits, and development, in mind. The introduction of the marketing authorisation in no way should prevent users of this opening like others in the Icelandic labour markets paying pay and other public fees in accordance with law and regulations. In this country, we have a pretty clear rule of business. We are simply talking about freedom with responsibility. A respectable president. Government contracts show that the work of building public transport throughout the country must be done. So I want to ask the highest. Transporter: Do governments hesitate to increase the number of tenants of rent cars while minimising their permit? Or do they even intend to place this special license entirely, as desired? Don't worry about the government. Open up a Icelandic cab market, including the U.S. to foreign authorities who are experienced in providing both cheap and productive services? If the government does not intend to change the current arrangements for a cab market, what are the basic reasons for the private arrangement? Finally, I'd like to ask you a question to the highest level. A minister in connection with a discussion that took place here in the last administration. A deputy reverend, Pawel Bartoszek, had oral inquiries to the world's highest level. Minister of Jón Gunnarsson. It was observed in the case of a minister that EFTA's management department, on the basis of her own initiative, viewed the laws and rules of cab driving in this country and that the Department of Transportation had been involved in paper communications, hopefully electronics, with the Agency in connection with that opinion. So I ask the highest. • reporting on the opinions of the EFTA Agency and the work of the Ministry. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u40	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson for starting this case here. What governments intend to do will answer both the first question and the secondary question. EFTA has initiated the initiative check on Iceland's rented vehicle market and its potential barriers to access. What the Agency is most concerned about is whether access restrictions are included in Icelandic automobile legislation on the number of job restrictions in certain areas as well as on the requirements of the European legislation on what to do. This is precisely comparable to what has already been done on rental legislation in Norway, where ESAs have already come to this conclusion in the rational opinion that Norwegian rental legislation, which is about a number of similar to the Icelandic, includes a violation of EEA rights. The Icelandic government has already had significant contact with ESAs. It is true that in all the North countries, at least in Denmark, Norway, and Finland, these days are designed to change in this field and turn them all around to cut down the number limits and open areas, but to form in Denmark, men demand that a service sale be carried out through a garage. I understand that's the way it is in the Netherlands too. One of the measures taken to cope with ESA observation as well as to ask for greater freedom on this market was to appoint a group of workers, who were to be reexamined as a general procedure on motor vehicle driving. The task force should submit proposals for a minister to see if and what changes are necessary in Icelandic driving regulations based on ESA opinion against Norway and initiative analysis in Iceland. The Outfit has been working since October. and endeavor to answer the following key questions: Is there a rule on rental driving and implementing it according to the EEA Convention? If no, what changes do the task force suggest that this work be done or done in order to do so? Is it proper to assume the services of passengers such as Uber and elevators on this country, and what changes are needed in Icelandic legislation to do so? The staff plan to report their final report to the Minister in March where these questions will be addressed and suggest changes to legislation. The staff has sought a number of parties as well as an independent legal opinion on the factors of Iceland's duties and the EEA rights. In other words, I had this team, set up by my predecessor, continue to complete their assignment, and it has started. The milestone report has already been submitted, but in fact a minister has not been introduced, there has been no time for that to be done. Still, I've read some of it. The results are that it is necessary to eliminate the number of job restrictions in designated areas as you are doing in other countries. However, the right to drive a taxi car is required to ensure quality, not less security. This is a priority for all of us, including the North countries. The service group aims to ensure that rent driving will remain subject to licences and that high security requirements are made for those they are engaged in. The population counts in the interim report much in their observations, including in our neighboring countries, and in accordance with the EEA Convention, there is an act of legal violation in the form it is today, but there are also other ways to change, in order not to reduce the services of consumers, and that general requirements will ensure the quality and safety of rental services. The staff will now review this point specifically and will submit further suggestions in the final report. Also asked. A senator on Uber and an elevator. The answer, in fact, is that there is no basis for passengers to offer their services here. However, it is reasonable to assume that those and those who offer their services meet all the requirements and requirements for renting. The safety and equality of consumers can only be guaranteed in this way. It is also appropriate to point that the European Court has recently judged that these enterprises will fall under transport companies. Thus, they are no longer part of this European economy but depend on exactly the exact requirements of other companies that carry goods and in this case. Then perhaps the last question has been answered. We intend to make adjustments. The result of this view of the present arrangement is that changes are inevitable. However, it has to be done in good collaboration with the owner's staff, but also, and perhaps primarily, with consumer interests in mind to ensure that the changes in nothing and guarantees additional safety and benefit of consumers, the quality of the service and the supply. [[The president calls.]] We take into account all these views for the work that is taking place at the moment in the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u41	A respectable president. In the light of changing circumstances, changing technology, it's nice to take a discussion of these matters. Changes in this arrangement, such as so many others in our community, are necessary. As seen at the highest. Ministers will also need to do so because of the agreements we are bound to European countries. The preparation needs to be carefully prepared. The matter needs to be handled well, so there is little point in presenting the concierge proposal. A senator referred to the matter because it is a matter of opinion, a professional procedure. They went to that job by a government like any other. A senator was involved, and he may have been well aware of it. I think it's important to let them finish their jobs and then we can see what's the best way. We can cope with this as a result of our work which way is best to go. I'm excited to see what comes out of it. It is so interesting again to observe that the reveries are a bit preoccupied with being here on certain issues of freedom that may have most of their origins in the Independence Party, such as this case. And now I see what it is. A member of the requisition is looking for partners who are taking care of a private ATVR sale in stores. The same one has given the bill to put down the Human Name Committee, a case that was initiated by the Justice Minister of the time at the Independence Party. I think this mistaken disagreement on whether to enter the European Union or not should be prevented. Senators and good friends would just come back to their homes. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u42	Mr. President. First, I'd like to agree with that as a matter of course. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson said earlier, that it would have been better to take this discussion when the results of the above - mentioned task force are available. In this case, the projection proposes to eliminate the maximum number of employment vacancies in the rental vehicle and thus to completely change the environment. I don't think it's going to be a misbehavior, and I don't think it's entirely thought to end it. In many parts of the world, a cut of employment has long been in place and was originally put in order to make it possible for those who wanted to pursue this business to survive. If a lot of people allowed, they'd be set free, like hell. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson suggests, this would lead to over-exploitation and the sector such as this would not be a bird or a fish. Let us not forget that today's cab service is providing more than 600 jobs. The article is well organized with branch offices and high level of service. By the legal formula used by this article, there is transparency, control and limitation of the effectiveness of public remuneration. To suggest a change in the currency of a rental car, like what it is. A senator also suggests black employment in this article. The reason to limit the number of jobs is still applicable to my judgment. Similar methods are used in other fields to ensure the benefit of those working in a particular sector. These include agriculture and fishing roads. Anxiety and limitations have meaning. These are tools that are needed to ensure the foundation of a particular business in a small community compared to other countries. Without limits, it can be assumed that the number of cabs will double in a short period of time. In Iceland, there are not millions of people. There aren't thousands of cabs here, like in some major cities. The market here is much more delicate than in the countries around us, but it is likely to be considered for a larger number, but it will be handled with caution. [[The president calls.]] But putting down the maximum number of jobs is a complete irresponsibility of my judgment. [[The president calls.]] Sweden has a very bad experience of letting everyone in the article. They removed restrictions on leaves several years ago. We are to look to the experiences of neighboring nations in this regard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u43	Mr. President. We'll talk about the entrance of a free passenger drive for a price. Well, we all know that in the countries where this has been permitted it will crash onto companies like Uber and an elevator. That's the way it is. As far as I'm concerned, there's no sharing economy when it's prepared and not public transport, because these companies are actually organized by the community in general. Another is that these companies don't meet the requirements we've made for taxis. There are countless questions, one is whether we want to cancel out a job driver as such, for public transport, basically. Is that our will? I don't think so. An example is taxis or e.g. small buses, take tourists to the country. We know how it's been going in Iceland sometimes, so I don't like it. Do we not want to ensure that we have a professional partner in this article, securing the safety of a passenger as well as possible? Yes, I do. And do we want to conduct insurance terms in front of passengers? We know what they're doing with Uber and elevators. It's a defined industry we're talking about. I think we should look at this with reality glasses and listen to criticism of these companies abroad, in the United States, in Denmark, Britain, France, even Egypt, I've looked this up. In the Czech Republic, Uber and an elevator were released from Brno, and it is attempted to do so in Prague. But I agree with what. I'm going to discuss it in my second speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u44	Mr. President. In time, we are talking about a decade or two, and we no longer become cab drivers. This work will no longer exist, no more than many other activities taken up by automation, in this case, tranny. Once we've got self-driving cars, we're actually just edifying. We know this, for example, that magazine of The Economist has been repeated on this subject, and many studies have included. from Oxford 2013, show this. If we review this report, it appears that half of our jobs as we know them today will be gone in 20 years. So it is not just cab drivers who are facing this; it is the future situation. When it comes to using the technology that exists now, Uber and others, so people, e.g. Students who want to be able to go out and drive for some hour at a convenient time, or, as the manager of this discussion mentioned, e.g. invalids who can do something, jump and work when they're feeling good, for example - when they start using the technology that offers this, we need to look back at the same time, as others have come in, that those who already have legitimate expectations for these jobs - are done in a way that will not be too harsh. This is how all the work that is about to go away, that we must respond now so that the landing will not be too harsh. It will then come into education, etc. So I'm glad that this council arrangement has come out. I'm glad that former and present transport ministers are looking into these matters because we have to look into this now and thus have a success. I can tell you that it's only been a very short time since there was a job passenger service, that was discussed on a committee three years ago. I asked the Ministry if they hadn't checked Uber, etc. It said, "Yes, we know it's coming, we just started working on this bill so many years ago, and we didn't know it would happen so slowly. " [[The president calls.]] So it's just as well to start quickly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u45	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the advert, please. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson, for bringing up this important and delicate matter, I would like to say. It has been found that a team has been working on this lately, so the discussion may not be so demanding at this point when the work is already under way and in full swing. It will be interesting to see the results of this group. But I'd like to point out a few things I see in this matter in particular about safety. We've been very lucky here in the country with this cab driver's business, and it's given us outstanding security in this area. All passengers, e.g. Trust perfectly with your cab driver, so if a passenger forgets e.g. His phone in the car, the next likely to be found at the station the next day. Another is that if drunk customers are returning home, they're next sure to be saved from this class that we call a cab drivers today. They are safe to their homes or to any other safe place if their condition is in this way. There are also other things that are not worthy of sacrifice, I think, if this is given free. There are some things in the current rules that I think are dangerous to sacrifice. What is being sacrificed for? What is the sacrifice for? To avoid waiting 15 minutes for a taxi during the busiest hour in the city of Reykjavík? If this is given free, every permit holder will flock out at the same time to get the job done. [[The president calls.]] What, then, will that be for another time? Then there will be very few men in the field.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u46	Mr. President. I want to thank you for this fine discussion, and it is also a pleasure to hear both the current minister and the former minister express his interest in reevaluating this arrangement. I think we should consider some basics in this. Inadequate prices are rising. That's rule number one. By keeping the maximum number of people at a low level, we increase the price of the service given. It's simple. This applies to all our markets. There is no evidence for the government to direct a volunteer in this service rather than for anyone else. We enjoy free, uncontrolled competition in so many other markets that are much more capitalizing, more difficult to access, etc. They tend to balance themselves voluntarily in supply and demand. I don't think the state should have to worry about it or adjust legislation. With regard to black activity, let us bear in mind that the present system of things has produced a vast black industry in this area that is completely disordered. There is also another factor to consider when discussing safety and other matters such that those who have studied such services as Uber and others know that the driver's location is well recorded as where and where. That's a lot of security. We've heard a debate abroad about women choosing, e.g. Rather than exploit the services of these companies than regular cabs simply because they are less dangerous in that environment. The safety is also there. Of course, we should have rules about every activity we want to make sure that we are professional. We have a driver's demand, the skill to be met, etc. However, we do not confuse with the general limitation of free competition that we have today simply by placing a roof on the total number of jobs and from where we work. That won't be necessary. This is a child of his time. It's a long time to change this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u47	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson for taking up this matter and starting this discussion. It comes in handy with the timing and the work being done in the Ministry, it was shown in the highest court case. Minister. It is inevitable, depending on both the situation and the recent developments, to improve the environment of a taxi vehicle. Freedom is desirable, we can say. Economics make it better where this is concerned. I want to agree with what. A senator, that everything involved in evolution, increasing traffic weights, environmental goals, swinging demand, the quality of those who enjoy the ministry is very important and is included in the discussion. It was shown in a case of the highest order. Secretary to ESA, the EFTA monitoring agency, launched a initiative check on this market in Iceland at the beginning of the last year due to what has been discussed here by special means and other market access blocks. Following the ESA decision of such cases in Norway regarding illegal limitations, a team was set up. Not only will it be informative and beneficial but it will be absolutely inevitable and necessary for us to have this report discussed with the aim of improving our order. This has been happening in the countries around us. Of course, we take into account what happens and then improve the rule that is necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u48	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson, for setting up this matter. This is a lot of melodramatic matters, as shown in the discussion until this and a number of arguments that can be drawn from both sides and backs. It is natural for a passenger to be able to order a car simply through an application on a mobile phone and to be able to pay both for the trip and follow closely where he is on his way to pick up the person. In this way, it is also clear that for the driver to have no need to worry about paying due where the money has been paid in advance. Similarly, when it comes to these electronic transactions, both driver and passenger can rate each other, both good and poor, thus providing passengers with bad drivers and drivers as well as those who are not comfortable passengers. One of the things I would like to mention is to revise cab legislation, whether they should be self-requisite; they meet, for example. the demand for specific environmental factors such as emissions. To mention this, several times at the airport in Reykjavík, where the taxis are in line and usually all are in progress, and often there is a cloud of pollution over those who are not particularly fun. Mr. President. I follow competition in all things, and competition increases the quality of values, which can be used to make better use of one's well - being. So I think it would be interesting to consider the advantage of opening the cab market more than is being done today. However, we also need to be sure that in this case as well as that of others, we need to make sure that there is no social directives and also to ensure that all drivers, such as all drivers, have a license, that there is something missing in the tax sector, etc., but the experience abroad, for filming in Denmark, unfortunately, has been missing there.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u49	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator and a chief. Minister for this discussion here at a council hall, which I don't half believe is still happening. I have high hopes that the Ministry's Committee, established by the previous secretary, will soon provide conclusions and that there will be a view of greater freedom of choice. I don't see any evidence that the Icelandic government maintains a regular cab market. You see, the unsettled situation involves monolification, complete resolution, and a lack of innovation that prefers consumers, but also on the drivers themselves, that I do not mention that the current access block the EEA Convention's regulations. It is therefore inevitable to change this situation, though earlier, as has been done in the countries around us. There are many reasons to change the current situation, which, of course, should be obvious to most people, that the market is as severe a barrier as this is not the best option for Icelandic society. Impulsion would have resulted in a tremendous positive effect. The removal of the roof of a number of cab sheets would, as mentioned in the discussion, increase both the number of those in the ministry, reduce prices, and open the door to increased innovations in this article. The discussion often starts with one company on its own. However, the discussion of freedom in a cab market is not to be centered on individual companies but on the opportunities of freedom. It is a matter of government-registered employment freedom and opportunity for the domestics to develop new solutions that are being prevented by the present rulework. Away from all these possibilities, opening to innovation, increasing flexibility, increased security, diversity of services, greater integration of cars and improved traffic culture, the likelihood of improving the quality of the service, and, above all, some lower prices against drunk driving. For example, most drivers who are chosen to be motorists are 171⁄221 years of age who are alcohol - controlled, just as a group who prefers the cost of taxis. In the past 15 years, the number of Icelanders and tourists has increased by 11%, with six times as much. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I hope the Minister realizes all the advantages of giving cab drivers free of charge. I'm slightly worried that a representative appointed by the first minister on a committee of changes in this arrangement, who spoke very much of increased cab - market freedom, was expelled from the committee, but I hope that this is not because the minister has a problem with his point of view. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] He may be able to respond.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u50	Mr. President. Only about the rules we've had in operation of taxi cars. I believe those rules brought us good news. The approach is reasonable because those who really want to do this work can easily start driving, such as if they are left alone. Another factor about this arrangement is how easy it is to filter out those who are not relevant for this work. It's very important. In my conversations with the company's presidents, it was noted that many people have been stopped on their journey to obtain permission that has shown that there is no benefit, not the person, not the profession, and not the customer at all. We must respect this arrangement, and we must be concerned that anyone can be granted permission without being careful whether the individual is simply capable of doing so. Suggested what? paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson assumes that the work base of a taxi car is history, and it is the nature of companies like Uber to have no operations. Implicit is risky. All of this would be more difficult, so it is important to be able to refer to a particular station if there is a need for observation. In addition, the bases have carried out important information to the police, become needed, and resolve differences between drivers and customers. An important knowledge is lost by putting aside restrictions. I'd like to step back to the experience Sweden's been through opening this market. It was too bad for tourists who came to Sweden to be very careful about taking taxi cars because cab drivers were the source of fraud and outright violence. [[The president calls.]] I might like to mention at the end that taking a taxi in Iceland is not cheap, I know that, but there are ways to reduce the fare by reducing expenses and giving e.g. In order to buy less fuel, such as colored oil, taxi drivers and taxi vehicles are responsible for the purchase of cheaper vehicles. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u51	Mr. President. We hear very well-known terms, markets and competitions, even healthy competition, whatever that may be, and freedom. We're talking about moving people, we're not talking about selling candy or anything else. I think that when we compare it with reality, this case is much more complicated than that this council-sense proposal is relevant to the work being done, observations, and so on. Because we're talking about freedom, I'd like to remind you that there's passengers in Uber and elevators under surveillance, and they're all known about every flight of people taking these cars. Money cannot be paid. You even have to get yourself out of an app, even pay for it, so there is some discrimination, and we're talking about migration for the next ten years, not a distant future when there's no money and the self-employment of cars and something like that. This is closer in time than we think. I think it is possible in itself to meet a variety of probes that are in the cab system and are certainly there. The number of cabs can be increased by a simple license and by increasing the number of cabs. However, there must be a license for this driving. Prices can be lowered, e.g. by having different types of cars, such as those seen in some cities, e.g. Three sizes. It is possible to promote competition between enterprises which, while not called Uber or Lift, become marketed. I support the research being done on the highest level. A secretary of transportation, and look to them with hope. It's not a flawless system. It needs to be examined carefully, but I am concerned that the opening being offered here will solve the problems of a cab drive or transport characterized by here in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u52	A respectable president. I look forward to seeing what comes from the group of servants mentioned here. It is true what was mentioned earlier. It is a delicate matter. It is only to be expected that when we talk here, a lot of people live, naturally it is to the people of the heart when all their breads depend on a routine that's going to get out of the way and it's going to make more of it. We should also try to find ways to soften the landing for those groups who rely on traditional technology and the system that has developed in the light of that technology. The market is changing, and it's changed. The rules no longer match reality, do not match what technology allows you to do. It's the same story as it's written down. It doesn't mean to be very angry about the appearance of technology. They're out there and they're not going anywhere. We just have to face it. We can do this only by trying to understand how we establish a regular work that is in full harmony with technology. It means that following this new market will, in effect, be impossible, and I'm worried about it. I've heard bad things about Uber, but there's only one technique, so there's community media, so there's so-called shuttle groups, soon self-driving cars, and then other services we can't see for, for example. It's like you wouldn't depend on the flaws of your life. 5th a.m. South, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson mentioned before I did. It has been referred to as transparency, safety, enforcing, and follow-up, such as tax recovery. So it's only a matter of checking the driver's words is not realistic or over the head possible if there's no way for this person to be involved in this economy. The only way to put this on the surface is to have it legal and realistic and not so that it takes a huge number of stones to get into this business. [[The president calls.]] We have only two options, we can try to cope with this and we can screw it up completely or we can face the facts as they are and build a law system that assumes the reality of what it is. Finally, I reiterate that it is important that we show understanding to this group and try to make a rule that suits his interests in the context of modern technology.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u53	A respectable president. I was going to add a little to my previous input into this discussion. Changes in this area are clearly coming, as in many other areas of employment, and I'm fully aware of that. I just want to stress that the quality and safety of the ministry, the services of cab stops and cab drivers, are not offered in a major way here. Is it not the easiest thing to do to solve this problem by increasing the number of jobs? Then they don't have to wait half an hour downtown. I'll think of that as much as I can. As a result of sacrificeing a halt, many might reveal that to save themselves money, they would reveal their stopping space. It is not unusual for those who choose not to be at a car station to use their job permit as a form of extra work, thus reducing their service to consumers more and more. The ministry would be fine during the most important periods of the week and day, but only a few served in other times. This would be some kind of treasure or valuable thing. They say it's best to cancel the charges, that they can only negotiate with the drivers. I don't want to seem to object to all freedom in this field, but I'm putting a big question mark on the subject. Something else I'd like to point out is about surveillance. These rights are expected to compromise the requirements for a pro driver. Then I'd like to point out that the cabby driver's driving is today in the hands of two police officers - from the Hill floor east to Horn Ground, two police officers. Of course, there is no surveillance.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u54	Mr. President. Thank you very much for an interesting discussion on this subject. Instead, I decided to take together a few points that caught my attention and shot at them. I'm gonna start by thanking the highest. A minister for putting us into the current work, and what can be expected, and then individual senators, for presenting differing viewpoints. Because of the fear of increasing black employment, these changes would become reality, I'd like to say that black industry thrives in the present market environment. These changes are, at least In my opinion, on the contrary, to cut down on it, there were other options for interested ones. I don't see in any way why, within a general legal code, such a black operation should be promoted. Another important safety issue. There is no suggestion for any discount there. The fact is, unfortunately, that the current law has not prevented such an offense. Any talk that insecurity would increase as a result of such a change is in my opinion to mislead the discussion. Then there's the debate about opportunities and oversupervising that I think, in large measure, is about our performances, suspended downtown in the middle of the night. That's well, but my interest in freedom in this market is focused primarily on the fact that the taxis in different forms will be more and more of the solution of the problem of our public transportation. This requires a more varied supply and a more varied price to do so. And I also think that we should celebrate the opportunities we have here by using the options of the shared economy and increasing the number of jobs. To a greater extent, we see the challenge of protecting jobs that can be lost by technological progress. Here, technological advancements offer to change the markets and increase the number of people who can contribute. Only finally, on the work team and on the opinions of the individual senators, even on the fatherly basis that there is no need for a discussion at the Senate Hall because some group of ministers are considering the matter. [[The president calls.]] I have to disagree completely, and I don't believe that I'm the only person who knows a good case. They may be even more than just matters that fall asleep on the Synod committees. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] The interests of the economy, and I'm just going to point them to the highest. Ministers, are not just those who render service and thus have the potential tendency to maintain the present system. The most important stakeholder is the one who uses the ministry, i.e. The public, and I wish he could get access to this working group. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u55	A respectable president. I appreciate this interesting discussion. Of course, it is only part of hearing the council's opinions and helping with a bill when it comes to it, when the staff is finished, and we see where we're going. Of course, it is a fundamental objective for us, both the council and the European Commission, to be guided by the interests of the public. All who work in this group, except for those who have more interests, are, of course, doing so. So let's hear it now. I found this to be an interesting discussion. Very different viewpoints. I agree with what happened. paritaprevir A Ari Trausti Guðmundsson that we need to be careful, pointing out exactly what has been reported abroad on these new enterprises, Uber and Lift, about the sharing economy, where the European Court simply rejects this and kills them under the shipping companies. That tells us that there is a tendency to set the same standards for all. Of course, we must be careful about this. We're dealing with the interests of people who live in a system. One of the senators mentioned that we should learn from the experience of others. That's exactly what we're doing. Watching what's happening in the North, including due to the recommendations of the ESA or the EEA Convention regulations but also because these have been developed. Some are going back a little because they went too far. It's not enough sometimes to scream freedom, freedom. So Danir rolls it up like that. it suggests that in certain areas in Denmark it is not guaranteed that there will be a service and that it will have the authority to do certain things. We need to examine all these factors. Hv. paritaprevir Hjaltason Gautiça spoke of our luck here in the country with security. I don't think it's just luck. I think that's because the system was designed like that. That's why it's so important, like a dog. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson said that we have to work to improve the order of work, to consult and cooperate with the stakeholders, to the parties working in the sector. [[The president calls.]] But the main issue is to ensure quality and security for those who use the ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u56	Mr. President. Under this team, I thought I'd ask the highest. The secretary of the transport and rural government on a synonym which was first recommended at the 144th legislation, or at the Council, which served in 2014◯2015, and then was adopted at the General Assembly of September 7, 2016. The proposal for marriage to have a legal home in its own place is the church arrangement. The Congress commissioned the Ministry and Minister to submit to the General Parliament a bill for a new law based on that proposal no later than March 30, 2017. Now on February 19, 2018, I thought it was time to ask what was going on, if the bill wasn't entering the council. The strange thing happened this morning, Mr. President, to the highest level. The minister answered the question on his Facebook page. True, he forgot to report, or he decided to make it appear as if it were his own idea. After all, they got the highest. A minister will give much commendation to those who came on the page and welcome the progressive laws he was about to recommend in March. It was very important to me. I'm asking, "Who needs the World Congress that has Facebook?" A little while later, just after the big time. The minister had published this entry on his Facebook page, came a news report on VOLV about what was about to happen, about the bill as the highest. The minister of transport and rural government has refused to submit. I think it's important that we show up here that the General Assembly had committed to the Ministry and Minister of these cases to submit a bill on this issue no later than March 30, 2017, and now February 19, 2018, nothing has been made, but according to Facebook website entry. Minister is expecting a bill like that in March. However, the Committee of General and Education Committee, which discussed the matter at its time, presented other factors that do not answer the Facebook page. For example, it is about the children of a married couple, whether children can have a legal home in their place, whether they are children of a divorced couple or of children. [[The president calls.]] Then I want to pray to the highest. A minister to enter this case, since I have received an answer to the fact that a bill on the legal home of a couple is presented in March. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u57	A respectable president. Thank you. The candidate for the inquiry and follow-up; the council is to support the European Commission. When I arrived at the Ministry at the beginning of December, I was informed that a working group was finishing work on an overall review of a law on legal registration, including On the basis of a council resolution by the Council for this to be done. However, a much more thorough examination was made, and this is probably the explanation of the phrase. Perhaps the General has been fully aware that the matter could be concluded in less than one year. But the overall legislation on legal registration is stated in March, and I hope it will be accepted here at the council. It suggests that a husband and wife will be able to have a legal home in place of each other, regardless of whether it is for a job, i.e. if they choose for any reason. Without a doubt, it will be discussed at the council and in the commission work whether children will be able to have a two - sided home. It has often been discussed at the council, and it has concluded that it is not possible to do so legally. One important change I'd like to mention, i.e. that when parents share custody, their child's home is registered with the parent whose home is not their home. The registration of a child's home is something new to be made up of. For example, the school system shows where both parents of a child live, i.e. where the child lives and where he has another residence. I expect this will be discussed more fully. Parents choose to have a legal home in their respective places, but their children may need to be in preschools or elementary schools, and they may need to be discussed in detail. What I think may be most important in this bill is that it is assumed that people will not be able to register to a home anywhere, just like that; people will call it a place without a location. I think that at the Committee's opinion, some 1,400 people are registered in such a way. As a result, it is assumed recently that Iceland's National Regiment should send a announcement to the synonym property in Iceland.is of those who record their home in his property. If you wanted to look at it, more people may have registered to your home than you have an idea today. This is impossible and can be the basis for a system fraud. So it's very important to finish this thing, and other things that are in there. As for the Secretary's Facebook page, it's interesting to keep an eye on her. She's the Minister's press on what he's doing. There was a regular presentation of interesting, sometimes information on the travels of ministers or proposed legislation, a case that he intends to bring in for the treatment of the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u58	Mr. President. I thank the Minister for the answers he gave. I come up here to discuss children and the possibility of children having twice the legal home. It was shown in the case of a minister that it could not be legal. Here a minister wrote about making a decision, marrying or living together, each parent having a legal home, and each parent having a home. I wondered if the Minister has completely missed the discussion that has been very loud in the past few years, i.e. This righteousness, when a child dwells with both his parents who are divorced or who have separated from each other, that a child can have a legal home in both places. I don't fully understand how this class of subjects has been working for a long time in regard to children and divorce, why it is legally impossible to do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u59	A respectable president. I look forward to having a proper time to discuss a legal home and all that. I'd like to make it seem rather tiresome to the Icelandic government culture how governments and Icelands feel that the authorities will probably decide what we're going to do in a private way. I don't like it. A husband and wife should be able to be married even if they do not have the same legal home. There is, therefore, no basis, except for any possible paperwork that has come about because of government and society's plan for our lives. I'd like to mention, too, in view of what happened. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir mentioned in the matter of child care, the idea that they have two legal homes. I've been sending you some questions. 248 changed children's residence, which is about the same material, but it is a different approach. I just wanted to keep it in place during the discussion. But I look forward to having a bigger case to talk more about, i.e. People's records, for they are highly devoid of much. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u60	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers and the what. Parliamentaries who participated in the discussion. The bill on these matters is certainly urgent, but when the case was discussed at the time of the council, it was discussed with the United States Union by members of the United States, who gave a review of the Congressary Directive that I am the first member of the council, who represented all the party members of the council at that time. The Union of Iceland said that because of the rapid change in society over the last few decades, there are things to look at. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if there are only two things at the top of the bill. The minister mentioned earlier and called on the National Revision Act on the Transgression Change, whether it is answered to the highest degree. Minister mentioned earlier. Then, Mr. President, I would like to ask the president to discuss it at the next Presidency meeting whether it is appropriate - or if we should not only respect a discussion at the General Assembly that once the program has been sent, the discussion will be received to the Minister on the terms of the councils, but if so, then, the Ministers would not have issued their statements and answers on their Facebook pages before the discussion begins. I don't think it's acceptable, Mr. President. I hope this case will be adopted by the Presidency Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u61	President will take word. A senator is an option.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u62	A respectable president. I thank you for the discussion and thank the captain for bringing it up. Since the speaker was the first member of the Parliament's resolution on this matter, he can now rejoice when the bill is presented, especially if the council agrees to follow this procedure in the legal home of a married couple. There are a number of other aspects of the bill that are improved and that follow clear reports of why people do this or the other way. However, there is no time or opportunity to discuss it here today. That's what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir came in, whether the Minister had been unconcerned about justice in having children at home with both parents, of course. That is why I asked about the results of the service group. Since this group was assessed as holding legal barriers, he went on to suggest that the child have a legal home with one parent but that it was registered with a residence at the other. No doubt that will improve. But I was already convinced that this would be a topic at the council and that people would see if there were any other means to go. However, this was suggested and will be discussed at the Senate Committee in due time. I hope this bill is about to fall into a house and look forward to measuring it up and seeing why. Parliamentaries on other aspects of this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u63	A respectable president. An increase in winter service on highways was reported in January to increase traffic security and is effective. However, I do not know if this decision has been successful in the recent winter winter weather. Good winter service is the basis for international tourism throughout the year. Of course, Winter Service also provides a basis for the expansion of employment parishes in many countries. However, many people travel daily to and from work in areas where winter service is not provided or provided at the start of worktime. I welcome the expansion of the service that took place in January, and I believe it can help to get more tourists from Reykjavík in the winter than this. But there are also questions. For example, it seems that much of the circuit's winter service is still in the service class three. Information on winter services is published on the Roadmaker's website. It is not easy to read from them unless they are much more familiar. The production appears to be directed by winter - service specialists, such as contractors and rural groups. I wondered, " Could it not be useful to present this information in a more accessible way so that they will benefit from the public and the tourism work? ' Just as information on roads obtained by Vega has been made available in a clear and accessible way, making it clear what is in snow or in the service groups. Similarly, I wondered, " How is the supervision of winter service being performed, since many times during the first vision seem not to be consistent in the ministry between comparable services? ' I know that sometimes it is because contractors do better than they are supposed to, but it can also cause blind chance, such as a distance from the starting point of service and more. It may be quite a challenge to cross a well - equipped road onto a high - road road without any warning just because there is a drive between services. So I want to ask the highest. Transport and Regional Minister: What is a fundamental factor in making a decision to serve as a member of a winter service on the highways of the country? What was the purpose of the decision regarding increased winter service on certain roads today in January 2018? How did service on highway 1 be divided by service? How many miles per category are there, and how do they spread geographically? What is the management of winter services, and what does this involve?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u64	A respectable president. Thank you for your fine questions from now on. Senator. As regards the decision to serve in winter services on the highways of the country, two main factors are the winter - day trip, called VDU, i.e. The average traffic to winter, however, is thought to be important. Roads connected with urban areas are considered to be important to the workaholics. The assessment of importance is then divided, depending on whether the distance between urban areas is less than 20 miles [20 km] or the distance between urban areas is over 20 miles [20 km]. The way between urban areas falls into the same service party, but on the longer way, there may be groups of services that depend on traffic. The parking space is considered to be the location where there are 200 or more inhabitants, and the service class is in charge of the service stage. Otherwise, the road is thought to be important to the road system, e.g. Because there is an important transport route, it may be a larger service than if driving alone is fundamental. This is especially true of many days. Other areas of service depend largely on traffic through them in winter, i.e. VDU. From the above point of view, there is the basis for the division of roads into the service categories. There are four service groups. The 1st class has important routes in which a trip to winter is 2,000 cars or more between urban areas less than 20 miles [20 km] and 3,000 automobiles or more are traveling long distances. The number of days is seven days a week. Service class 2 has roads that are less than 20 miles [20 km] in traffic between 300 and 2,000 cars, as well as roads that fall by traffic between 500 and 3,000 cars. There are six or seven days after the incident. Group 3 can also include six to seven days of road service, with traffic less than 300 cars traveling between urban areas of less than 20 miles [20 km] and long distances with traffic below 500. Other roads can fall into a service class 3 with three to five days'service if traffic is more than 100 cars. This is especially true of museum routes. Finally, a 4 service group comes to others by means of unspecified traffic, which receive minimal regular service. Apart from this exchange, there are roads that fall under a so - called half - volume rule and are served up to three times a week. Halfway policy is with the rurals. Second, why was the decision made at the beginning of the year? This increase was based on the principle of the road to winter service, in response to the first request, and was proposed for a number of snowstool days based on traffic counts during the winter day tours as well as on services based on an important route. For example, a winter - day trip with over 100 cars received a two - day service, a winter - day trip over 200 received a three - day service, a road with 300 cars received five days of service, a road of 400 cars on six days of service, and finally, important roads on a winter day trip over 500 cars received seven days of service. In harmony with this, there was also an effort to increase the number of roads served in winter. These are roads that had increased, but their service had taken place, so they did not have the same service as other roads with similar traffic. Thus, some of the ways that this meant by regular service were previously limited. When a decision for increased winter service was made this January, it was not suggested to reduce road service. Regarding the third question of how the service is divided on highway 1 by Service Groups 1, 2 and 3, i.e. how many miles in each category and how they spread, this is a very accurate document I'm not going to read here, but I'm going to get the information to the council and members of the council. Service class 1 distance is 36 miles (336 km). They serve as more than 1,500 servants, 3 fewer than 2,500 serving as ministerial servants, and 4 are over a thousand miles [1,000 km] of service. Regarding the last question, how a winter service is being monitored, and what is involved in this monitoring, it is twofold; the need for service, namely, monitoring. salting and opening. However, there is an up-to-date information collection to provide information on this subject. Enlightenment for this purpose is performed in two ways; however, weather monitoring is performed and this need is considered, and monitoring is being performed. Monitoring will be carried out by telecommunications of cameras, weather stations, as well as by monitoring. It also monitors work quality at the field, as well as regular monitoring of the activity and status of tools and equipment. The equipment is monitored two to four times a year. New risk assessment is also required. [[The president calls.]] This risk assessment is taken to form in the capital area, where surveys are made more frequently than elsewhere. [[The president calls.]] This will also include the patrollers from the Vega to assess whether the work is well done, e.g. whether there's been enough wet and so forth. [[The president calls.]] This monitoring is as needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u65	President. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir tape for these inquiries. It is only natural that we are considering this in the weather that has taken place recently and that this service is difficult to follow. V.E.G. A minister talks about a year-old tour. It is not measured everywhere and can vary from place to place. There may be two, three numerators between Hólmavík and Iceaf, but there may be none among the other urban areas. Doesn't that have to be fixed? Also, I would like to ask you for a winter service checkup. Is there a consistent observation throughout the country, or does it differ from where it is in the country? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u66	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister Ingi Jóhannsson Sigurður the answer. Kristjánsdóttir That's him. That's him. That's him. That's him. It is good to get this information out, but it is even better to know because it too is written and more detailed, so that it can be looked over and considered further. During my last trip to the Northeast standard of election week, I heard that people in many parts of the road do not feel that the tremendous changes in employment have taken place, both between communities and rural areas, as there are now an exception that two adults work on each farm. So one party works outside the house daily. As a result, I wondered, " Do I have a discussion about whether it would be normal to put more factors to work at the end of the day's day's service, whether it is at the start of work, when schoolchildren have to travel on the road, when they have to go on the road, the needs of tourism, and finally regional and local climate factors? ' It is widely known that there may be a small spot where the snow layer is difficult or heavy, and/or a few miles of snow with heavy sultos, but it is not sanded or salty. [[The president calls.]] Is that not an opinion that we need to consider as the years ahead lie ahead?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-19-25.u67	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this discussion. That's what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir introduced the surveillance as a risk assessment. The capital area is more frequent than anywhere else. But it is done in a very precise way. To illustrate the effectiveness of tools, contractors need to weigh the amount removed from the roads so that they are consistent between management and working machines. It also examines whether a person is well - equipped and whether it is possible to go closer to the stalks and whether some material is needed to be removed so that the road can be scraped back and forth. All of this is now taken care of. I think I can claim that men are trying as necessary to keep this up with the needs of their jobs and homes, to get children to school and people to work. That's right. That's what happened. Anna Sævarsdóttir adage, that we've seen a tremendous change in recent years. Both work areas are larger, i.e. People tend to travel a long way to work, but the number of people making traffic increases. That's why we've been seeing these fairy tales of increase. True, it was good to respond, and my request to increase winter service at the beginning of the year responded favorably to Vega's request. However, we have not been able to prevent all the bad weather that has raged over the past two weeks, unfortunately, and perhaps no winter service can be done on such chapters. This, however, has resulted in the cost of the roadmaking of 35 million a day since the Millennium. We need more money to support our winter service. It's one joint. New projects are one thing, maintenance of workers other than the services, including winter service, that will take more money than it has done in recent years.
