ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-73.u1	Mr. President. I recommend a greater part of the employment committee on bill to legalize the changing of hunting fees. The committee has discussed the matter. The committee feels that it is too late to receive relevant information to provide the prime information on the changes in hunting costs that have been clearly identified as valid laws will be removed at the end of this fishing year for the species controlled according to the fishing year. The bill suggests that the fishing fee for the 2017/018 fishing year will be extended unchanged and the pan-European year will be met. In order to reach an agreement on the end of the council, a greater portion feels that it is right to discuss the changes laid down in the bill of the greater section of the autumn Council. The changes proposed in this matter are fundamental changes to which hunting costs will be linked and given almost a real time. It is evident that the survival and calculating of almost real time will affect the amount of funded fishing fees, in line with the survival of once-in-a-day catchers. It is important that, when preparing a new fishing fee bill, the article and particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, many of which have had difficulty dealing with worsening management conditions, be viewed. The majority of it feels strongly that there will be a need to look at the actual times and a special step - by - step discount that is primarily due to small and medium-sized enterprises working on the global re-examination of fishing fees awaiting the Senate in the fall. The majority suggest that the bill be accepted as unchanged. Under it is the one that stands here for Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristoff, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, and Njáll Friðbertsson. On the job committee, we got the case in our arms. It certainly was too late for a detailed discussion of this, in view of the short time left to complete the Senate work. We appreciate it so that we need to take this big task before the fall. The project is waiting for us, it won't go away. The facts also await us, the positions of small and medium-sized enterprises are very difficult. Of course, there is much concern with the companies who may be planning to save their money, since a greater discount could not be made to those little enterprises that are difficult to make. But we hope that these companies will do so, and we can come here in the fall and agree on total legislation, with real-time recovery and the need for us to meet the small and medium-sized companies with a special discount. I hope we make it together. I believe it is very important that we, the council, handle the big task that awaits us in the fall, even though we have not now done so and that this trial has been part of the contracts for the end of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-73.u2	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a committee party with a bill-change proposal to correct the changing of hunting fees, No. 74/2012, 2018 fishing fee, from the less part of the employment committee. The first smaller item suggests a change to the bill in that temporary II laws will be extended, from the time it flowed, and values to the end of 2018 or until the Council has approved a new fishing law. The law stipulates reduction of fishing costs for interest costs in financial stock markets. The problem fell out at the end of the 2016/2017 fishing year. Many smaller and medium-sized enterprises have been upset, including due to the efficiency of the gangs of a crown, but the most serious impact on the sector conditions of smaller and intermediate productions is due to the calculation of the share of the fishing fees based on non-employees. Therefore, it is important that the law be restored so that the currency or sale of my enterprises can be avoided. The first smaller item suggests that the bill will be accepted with the following modification: This will be followed by a new article, which will be discussed in the following article. saying, The following changes will be made to temporary II of the law: a. Instead of the annual,2016/2017 in 1st. mgr., 1st paragraph. 2 mg. and Second issue. 6 mg. comes on December 31, 2018. b. Instead of the date, on December 31, 2016, of the 1st case. 6 mg. comes on December 31, 2018. c. Instead of the annual,2012,2016 in the 3rd suit. 6 mg. published by the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society of New York, Inc. In this regard, the writer of this publication is written here on the job committee. I'd like to say about this matter that I had asked a sea chief about the matter of fishing. The answer came to the fore. Then nothing happens, but now, a few days ago, this bill came into the job committee. I voted that the committee would be closed, was in the case, so that there would be a discussion at the council, because it is urgent that this case be conducted. Then I took a vote against the subject's becoming a part of the program. Then many were surprised, but I explained it in the pant of the Generalis, i.e. This was because the cases I had in my memory were attached to a committee that I wanted to get paid. That's why I voted against this case to be scheduled, to be said again. But that's all I'm gonna say for now.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-73.u3	Mr. President. The performance of the production has improved by 366 billion dollars. from collapse to end of 2016. At the same time, 66 billion dollars from 2010/2016 were spent in fishing only 45 billion. Note that this profits and profits are due to the use of a resource that the nation has under law, not to a few companies or families. The cost of fishing vehicles increased from a collapse of about 300 billion dollars, which is 50% more than what we put into the whole health system. It was also only in the last week that the owners and former owners of many of the companies who were now supposed to get amassed had quite good results. Owners of model companies, who at the same time received their quatane. In spite of this, the government was going to lower the rate of hunting by less than 3 billion here at the end of the Senate. It would have caused the great body of brothers. That is what most of us strongly objected to during our government opposition. Eventually, the bill dropped from the rest of the section. We in the United States believe that it is acceptable that while a better solution is not available, the fishing costs in the present form will be extended, as most of them suggest. However, the question of how and how to profit from our fish resources will flow to the future remains. No doubt it will be discussed completely during the next assembly. It's been a Union policy from the institution to offer out fish parvota. Thus, the public is the most guaranteed fair fortune from the common resource. They pay a lot of money when well - worked and with less effort, thus making sure that their business is successful. Embarrassing for reimbursement on equal terms to a reasonable amount of time would also provide access and deliver, as previously said, to the owner of the nation. No one argues that smaller makings are a problem, and most agree that one way or another it is necessary to meet them. However, such actions must be specific and focused on those who really need them. This is part of the problem because they have to buy an alternative receipt from other seamen and pay their permission high. And the hunting fee on top. So the plans that lived will help them little. There will never be an agreement on a system that will attract the builders or a system that has somehow decided the cost, depending on the government. It is therefore vital that both the nation and the arrangement be settled in this matter. I sure hope we can get closer to a new assembly. The United States promises that they will be included in that discussion in a grammatical way. I have my doubts, however, that this will be the case while the left, the green, the independent party and the forward party form more parts. Unfortunately, the bill that was submitted last week shows it. But we provide open arms, and we are ready for the fall to succeed and discuss, and we find ways to settle in this long argument.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-73.u4	President. This is a bill for maintaining fishing costs as unchanged as a year, although the discount usually applies over a period of 12 months over a four - month period in the fall. However, there is no need to worry about that arrangement now but rather to keep it in place during the fall discussion. It's fine that the discount stays, but I say against the idea that this means double discounting in the next year by definition. The bill concludes the negotiations of the Parliaments at the General Assembly and is, in fact, not one man's favorite conclusion. But I thank the greater part for the power to see me and to come to an agreement, even though it is an agreement for a waiting event. I hope that it also means that a discussion in the autumn will be on the basis of fact and reason. There may not be much to say about the bill as such, but I would like to discuss just the political catastrophe that led us to this point. As a thunder from clear air after the county election, a bill appeared on the Department of Employment Committee that was working at the Ministry, which was at a critical point during the discussion that had been under way. This was a bill for a major reduction in hunting fees in that the vast majority of this reduction grew to a handful of large types of projects, although the bill was wrongly marketed as some kind of kindness to the trilla men. Of course, this angered the government. We did well in our concordance, for it was an enormous increase in social well - being products for large makers, most of whom may feel that they have had too much benefits already. But there were, of course, difficult questions in this context. Why could this not be done honestly in good cooperation over a longer period of time? Why was this so urgent that all council members were put at risk because of it? Why had the left green set to take a 180 degree turn in resource cases? Of course, these questions will not be answered without a reference to the administrative work. But we're here. The government seems to be trying to contribute to the historical explanation that it was the evil government field that prevented lower fishing costs for small and medium-sized productions. Of course, that explanation should be rejected if all are looking at the facts. This is, in effect, the complete victory of the opposition to the government in this round of continued war to prevent the enormous transfer of wealth from the common people to the sea fields, of course, but we also want to care for the small and mediumsized types. This is the maintenance of a defected system which will always contribute to the compression of resource biofuels and fish permissions on a small number of people. Every time, local communities are bound to be slaves to the great fishing industry or victims of the deportations that sold themselves from there. This is the system we live in. The bill maintains its present status. However, I still believe that this is the first step toward turning back the debate on the resource costs in the fishing grounds where the Independence Party's plans have been thrown back with harshness. So the next steps are important. Pirate's goals in fishing are extremely simple. The Icelandic national government, the owner of the resource, is expected to provide remunerations for open market rents and to run rents into state funds and the result is public information. All effort is required to make trade with marine resources normal and to improve the economy of sailors, the lower fishing resources, and other enterprises that work with secondary products. To these goals we will continue to pursue because these are remarkably simple goals: free market, free people, free society.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-73.u5	Mr. President. This whole fishing business is very different. It is true that the bill of the professional committee is late in the spring months of this council. In fact, I'd like to say that this case is at least a year late because it was at least a bed a year ago that I and others brought up the seriousness of the situation in front of us. That's the fact. The situation in the coastal regions is very serious. The problem won't go away. All we have to do with this bill is that it is being delayed until autumn to deal with it. That's a fact. Meanwhile, the competitiveness of the land will continue to worsen in the fishing road. Meanwhile, the number of isolates will continue to decrease and compression will increase. Meanwhile, the number of employees in the fishing field will continue to feel upset. And it continues to be free of settlement to fester all over the country. The social damage resulting from this massive taxation of fishing costs is unspoken and cannot be compensated, unfortunately. These are the public interests of this issue. Real and important public interest across the country. V.E.G. In the fall of the fall, a ocean - fishing minister will provide a bill for a better skirmish on the pressures of fishing costs and will reduce the added fishing costs of this current fishing year. That bill will be legal for New Year's. For this reason alone, I accept the legal bix that this bill is.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-73.u6	Mr. President. The problems of the government over this matter alone are to blame, and no one else is to blame. If we're going to deal with the real problem of small projects that have been often mentioned in the discussion, then it's a bill that the government presented 15 minutes before Congress is not the answer. The bill presented here estimated a 3 billion reduction in hunting costs, a largest reduction, of 80585 percent. If we are really going to focus on those who are in trouble in the sea, we should not go that way. We have much more to do with the way that part of the bill was introduced, i.e. trying to focus on the discount that has to do with small and smaller designs and has to do with the personal discount. Then we are trying to focus on the worst in this article. The same applies to the review of generalised groundwaters. The proposals are available, how to reevaluate that system in order to focus on the fragile areas of the country that are still accessible to the general population. This process can be implemented. This implementation supports the rural areas, the rural communities with general rural areas, and promotes their own decision-making rights on the best way to implement general rural areas. Let's move over to the countryside, to the settlements of the country. I would like to commend a prime minister for walking that whiphole - that is how you have experienced - not only trying to accept the opposition but also to reconcile its legitimate demands and tips with its political and administrative parties. I know it's been tough, but I think it's the best. The prime minister has approached that matter in a slightly different way than any other prime minister with whom I have worked. I'd like to commend her for that. The political debate awaits the fall. Based on what humans have been saying today on the part of government officials, it is evident that autumn is a major political stroke. We are naturally to talk about the elephant at the party - or in the living room. [[Up front.]] There's an elephant in the living room, and there's an elephant. It's good to be called here from the Senate Hall. We will always experience again the coming of the council and the hope of any dedicated senators who immediately leave and obey the call, taking steps to lower fishing costs instead of attacking the root of the problem, which is the U.S. dollar. We'll experience this over and over again if nothing has to be done. I would also like to point out that if we are going to focus on the worst in this article, it is not just certain parts, specific settlements, small ones, and smaller ones. We can approach it in a way that is very different from that of the original government bill. It is as much a project in many parts of the country, especially without quotas. They're in trouble. They would make the most of it if they eventually resort to a new financial policy. The whole sea route would benefit from this as well as the tourism. I'm glad this case has been resolved temporarily. It has been refrigerated. The current budget is to be extended, the current currency. I'm on it. I used to hate to hear about the fact that some of the arrangements have been made. Once again, there is evidence that this important industry should not try to settle down. I don't think it's a bad message if we go home for the summer and then we get another bill, when we come back here, that's not just supposed to step into the government parties but also a part of the board. I know that left greens in their hearts are not at peace with the routes and solutions from the government. I'd like to encourage the highest. A government to have a prenup in trying to achieve a greater agreement on this sector, that we can settle the price for our common resources, the fish in the sea. I know it can be done, you can't give up on it. I still have big faith in our ability to communicate. We've shown it here in the last few days that it can be done. Unlike forces within the council, important things can be brought together. We should try to use that will for the sake of fishing and public interest.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-73.u7	Mr. President. There are no doubt many people throughout the country who were very disappointed in preventing a discussion, a material discussion, and a discussion of the bill for changing fishing fees. 1049, as it was submitted. I want to testify, with permission of the highest power. President, including. in the review of the Land Association of Subboaters, who said: ▪ The small boat owner's relationship expresses its joy with the bill, which is shown to meet the problems of the small structure. Later in the same review, it says under the permission of a president: Since the beginning of this fishing year, the Society has tried to speak up courageously to men who do not know what to do about it. The sequence of events that has ended in excluding the loss of hunting costs has been carried out. Sadly, such conversations have failed to produce sufficient results, which show that LS [i.e. The national relationship between little boat owners] has watched after a catch section from an enormously capable developers, where their debt grew over their heads. Small boatmakers all over the country have not seen their hopes come true. The General Assembly of the Icelanders has at least one there is no reason to deal with their problems. By preventing a material discussion about the bill I was discussing, the council failed. We need to keep facts in mind. Clearly, the export value of water products, 197 billion last year, has fallen to some 68 billion since 2015 - 68 billion. The result in fishing has been lower than that. In view of these facts, the government and the greater part of the body of Congress considered necessary, considered it to be a fair matter, that hunting charges would be reviewed, and that they would take into account the realities of the seabed, which were prevented from doing so in this hall. They had hopes that men would listen to workers, businesses that will all be involved in the global construction work. It wasn't done. It is shocking to have to face this, which, of course, is done here at the end of the council. But I think those who took sides, those who made the decision to prevent the ill effects of the fishing road across the country, have to look at themselves only when they walk into the summer. They should make a point of visiting Snæfellsnes, the West, the West Coasts of the West, the Grandstians, and elsewhere, discussing with the people and asking: "How have I lived up to the expectations you had for me? Have I? [[The president calls.]] It will be fascinating next fall to learn what answers you have received.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-73.u8	Mr. President. The bill set out here at its root in an agreement between the groups working at the General Assembly. A group of people are involved in that agreement, and they will support the bill on that basis. There is not much information to discuss at this moment on the subject of the bill, but I would like to let it be noted that we have the best interests of the enterprises, which are the small companies and the mediums. It is true that some of the problems are Páll in the Jónsson Sigurður the crown that has occurred during the recent years. It puts export branches, competitive branches, sceptical companies in a very difficult position, and it is a special problem that needs to be discussed. Mr. President. There will be no escape from making serious comments to the government's conduct, which threw this case, as it has been said, into the General Assembly by the election and by no means by the expected end of Congress. But we can see that the case will come again in the fall of a coming one. We in the Gang of the People want to make a successful decision, and we will put forth effort in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-73.u9	A respectable president. We're gonna go for a second. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy offers a bill-to-producing bill to replace the words of 51,440k: Long-lost, 2,572,000. Long - term animals are endangered from extinction. It is classified as the second most dangerous class, as it is called, ◯endangeled, but not ▪ dextrose in dadger- - I apologize for English abuse - in extinction but not in extreme danger of extinction. Thereafter, groups like extinction, not in custody, or in zoos, are something similar, obviously not to be long - tried. The reason is that the number of animals have fallen by 70% or more during the past three generations of animals, 70%. The reason is fishing, there is nothing more complex than that. After precise calculation of this fishing fee, we concluded that in order to prevent long - term fishing from raising the fish price, the price of hunting is higher. It's simply unannounced that we're postponing animals at risk of extinction. I'd like to ask the Senate to take into account this adjustment proposal. We had to raise the price more, of course, 10 trillion or something like that. There's nothing to catch these animals.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-73.u10	A respectable president. Well, at least not at all. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason isn't here in the audience, and I haven't heard every word of his speech in the past, but I have to do it just by now that I think it's rather unusual for the government to be blamed for not being given any material discussion when it's clear that the reason that this matter is now entering the council is that the government did not put it in order to appear before local government elections. This is known to all who are in this room and to the members of the administrations even better than the members of the administration. So I'll just bring it to my good partner's house, okay? paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason. It was interesting to see it. paritaprevir Teitur Björn Einarsson comes in a pita and declares the firm faith that I give myself that is based on conversations at the highest. A seafaring minister, his associate, that in the fall, there will be a bill that will be produced by certain means. Because I know the highest. Minister here is the next man in a lock after me, I'd like to use this opportunity to encourage him to consider only the decisions that have been made about how this will be implemented. The other is told to cooperate greatly on how this will be done. There are differing opinions within the parties. There are also differing opinions within the government. It's complicated. I've been worried sick about this, i.e. that the fishing costs are to lay the burdens on the fishing work, especially on the small and mediums of the work that is too large for it. It's the tone we hear from everywhere, no matter where you listen, that operators of the small and smaller types are in a really great deal of trouble this misserin. There are many factors that come in there, of course, but the largest change is that the calculation of the fishing fees aims for management at a different time than we are living in right now. It's in this light as a dog. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson, representative of the Central Work Board, proposes a reimbursement of this bill, where it is suggested that a so-called debt, as noted in the Summit for hunting costs, be brought back. He slipped out at the end of the last fishing year, and this helps to a degree to the extent that the strongest biofuel is fighting. If we look at the council, I can only believe that senators have understanding and will to help with these efforts. The compression is just going on these days, these weeks, these months. Hunting clearances are going from small to medium-sized structures to larger, and it will continue in the absence of response. This proposal to bring back the debt rate to next year or until the Council has approved new fishing fees, let's say, but not enough. We have to go to a basic reexamination of this hunting suit in the fall, and it would be interesting to hear from the highest level. A minister next to a child, whether a song of contract or an export is already on the table. That was evident from what he said. paritaprevir Teits Björn Einarsson here just a few minutes ago, about implementation and reduction, that there will be a year's contract for new fishing costs. [[Up front.]] - What's he doing? The senator left no room for interpretation in this regard. Finally, I encourage a world of Congress to cover up this transition, i.e. ... thatyouwillcomebackwith your debts. I know that many in here believe that it would help. I urge senators to stand with small and intermediate preparations in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-73.u11	Mr. President. This has long been a matter of strife in politics. Perhaps the biggest problem in this is the unwillingness to try to reach some cross - politic conclusion on the matter and has meant that it is constantly experimenting with how hunting costs are calculated from one season to the next, which, of course, creates an unpredictable situation for the article. There's an agreement, I suppose, in this room that better is that the application is closer in time. However, it is proper to keep in mind that this arrangement has been with people for quite some time, and it was totally predictable of what would be due this article this year. Perhaps it would be more convenient for us to be careful about reevaluating this arrangement, which I think a wide deal could be made. Of course, it is tragic that few seem to believe in a market solution, i.e. that these sources of fishing themselves are actually merited, what price is fair or normal according to market conditions and politicians assigned instead to try to figure it out with varying results. When it comes to dealing with the problems of small and medium-sized productions, that is, of course, not what the bill was about, 80% of the reductions it involved would have taken to the larger outputs. If there had been a bill that would have turned into the problem of small and medium-sized production, I think it might have been a good idea. It is their responsibility that brought the matter up from the beginning and that it was obvious that it was simply using the problem of small and medium-sized production as an excuse for reducing the fishing costs in general. If we also think that when we look at the problems of making such a thing, it is true that in recent years it seems that it was a heavy work, including, a heavy one. Because of the crown's strength, but especially because of a seaman strike that raged or lasted during the first weeks of the year. We can see very clearly in the export of the year that the article is quickly straightening out the cow and the exporting of marine products has increased by 22 billion between the first five months of the year, by more than 30%. This does not mean that this article has come forward. Perhaps the biggest part of this all, however, is that it is not just a way of experiencing a strong gang, a high success, but all the export work in this country, all the branches and sectors in this country that compete for import. Perhaps it would be better for the government to show some interest in handling that problem. This could be done in a general way, e.g. Recommendation on the reduction of insurance fees. This could also be done by promoting the government of the land to a degree of interest that would result in good for all and for the public. But no, somehow it's always been, and it's actually been for decades that politicians' interest seems mainly to face the problem of fishing for these substances rather than other exporting sectors in the country. There, we simply have to be equal. It suffers all the companies for the state of the sky high crews of the crescent and big real-life arts that have occurred in the past few years. It may be appropriate that we once try to address the problem in a general way, to address the root of the problem, which, of course, is this coin, the unstable coin we live in, and the high interest level it has produced. It has repeatedly been shown that no one wants to do so. The fact is, if we look at the facts, that, fortunately, in recent years, fishing has been a well - operated industry. The code system has provided excellent management in this article. Export prices have been increasingly increasing. At more than 50% in a decade, the price of fishing or the price of fishing in foreign currency has increased, and this is a cause for rejoicing. How happy we are that the article in general went well! There is no emergency at all in terms of the survival of larger outputs in the circumstances here, requiring the sordid practice of the past, to appear at the last minute with the bill that has been withdrawn. I'm the highest. To show a little greater willingness to agree on this matter, the minister of the sea could be identified. paritaprevir Teits Björn Einarsson, that here is simply to roll over the smaller part again in the fall. I think it would be worth once to try to make some kind of precipitous agreement. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-73.u12	A respectable president. From the late last century onward, conflicts over the seabed have lasted for a long time, first through the peristaltic system itself or the amendment system. We have come to most of our minds from that discussion. The situation is now on the pay line. I think, no matter what people think about the discussion, we're getting closer to some common conclusion. At least I don't think this article is against paying the price for using a common resource anymore. However, this important matter remains to be discussed with terms of individual, company, or business matters. They all have a fault in that subject, whether it is a government or a government, or a god may know where from such a society the person chooses to participate in that discussion. I'm just going to remind you that there are over a thousand social security numbers in this industry. When discussing her issues, we should keep in mind that this is a broad, fun, good, powerful flea. I also believe that there is a great deal of desire here in the hall so that this article will be a stable environment, a natural payment, and I will rightly hope that all members of the Parliament agree that this trade will compete with international competition. 98% of the exported fishing grounds in Iceland are exported to a foreign market. It is fundamental that national legislation makes the sector equal to the fierce competition in which Icelandic companies are waiting to put their products from the resource into prices in foreign markets. I also ask members of the Parliament to consider the location where we have arrived when we consider the resource fee or the fishing fee. To me, the fishing fee is set up, as the rules are now, a pound of e.g. And from the sight of him that huntth. When we're considering whether it matters who gets the access to the resource and hunts the fish, we're in another way thinking about operating on common resources. Then, in 2014, we are in a system different from that of today's people, which is now being extended to three years of age and is running its own course. This question is: Is there any possibility that factors have been resolved or that the arrangement has been established? It's not. The main thing at work that will be started must be shifted to the fishing fee in time, further linking it with the living and ensuring in some way, regardless of how it will be done, that the application of the application will not become a root of the country's settlements, that we will make use of the sector in many places around the country of certain foundations and settlements. I'm glad that what's been discussed in the conferences is that they want to take a serious talk about these matters in the autumn. I especially rejoice and look forward to that discussion. There is nothing wrong with disagreeing about ways to achieve a common objective, nothing at all, but the political policies, the debates and the media are to be held in this room and here on the scene of the council. The bill that I plan to contribute in the fall, and work this summer, will be based on it, and the three main reasons that we can get together in the fall of a successful source for a common resource, we will reach a agreement, hopefully, in some way we want to organise our budget, and that we will take the value of a new arrangement on January 1, 2018, and the rules that we meet for the collection of fishing costs will also be directed on the year 2018, and we will be able to determine the cost of the state's payment and whether it is possible to apply the rules we will agree on the payment of this year's current.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-73.u13	Mr. President. When we concluded our contracts, we agreed that the same fishing law would be extended until the end of the year. The United States has, as we know, an opinion of the commercial fishing regime in Iceland, and the United States council is completely at odds with long-lost fishing. But we stand by the agreement we made, so we'll say no to all the changes we made.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-73.u14	A respectable president. At the end of this council, it was an agreement in a greater part of the employment committee to propose a change in fishing fees that would affect the final pressures of fishing for the year 2017,2018, and the next year's fishing. It cannot be overlooked that the proposal was very late, and despite tests on the subject, there was not enough support here at the council. Hence, at the end of this council, hunting costs remain unchanged. However, it is only in the autumn that we will be faced with the position the bill was intended to deal with and at the same time to determine future fishing costs. This means that this assembly is sending the matter forward in the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-73.u15	Mr. President. The government has been reassigned with a gift package for the large structure. That's why we're so happy. It describes a marvelously ill - mannered priorities set out by the government that the issue has been submitted. But this matter is an excellent gathering, and we welcome it and accept it, of course. It is von Pirata's hope that this political effort by the government will open up a natural and facts-dependent debate over the future of resource costs in the fall rather than a misdirection of continued welfare strategy for rich people.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-73.u16	A respectable president. As you may understand, standing at the majority of the employment committee's party, I agree that this case came in late and did not have enough time to discuss it. In the fall, we wait to discuss a future arrangement when it comes to collecting fees, how to recalculate them. To me, it is important that we be as close to a real time as possible. I think it's important that the fishing costs are off-limits and we look after the small and medium-sized companies. All of us must realize that if we follow this, to move this closer in time, and to make a move, the sum of the fishing costs will be changed. In this case now, she would have dropped 1.7 billion dollars. I don't know exactly what the situation will be this fall, but if we count these two criteria correctly, we have to face the fact that the sum will change.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-73.u17	Mr. President. We in Reunion will support the extension of the remuneration warrant for the hunting fees and the reconciliation achieved at the end of the controversial bill of the Government which was actually moved by a professional committee; however, in my opinion, a government bill. The source of the bill was not reached, i.e. helping truly small and medium-sized outputs. Not at all. All the figures, all the reports that have been gone, want to read them on the other side, show that the bill did not achieve its purpose. I hereby declare that we would like to work and contribute to helping those who are needed and helping the small ones, especially in the country, where we can support them. This was not the way to do it; other ways are better and better. I'd like to encourage the highest. A government to win the bill that has already been proclaimed in greater peace than has been done with the bill that we are putting aside with the payment on.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-73.u18	Mr. President. As I mentioned in my talk earlier, we view this bill as a result of the agreement of the groups here at the General Assembly and support it on that basis. It is true that with this decision, this matter is actually cast into the autumn. It is surprising that the government was going to force this case to the 11th hour, after the election, just before the end of the council. Of course, society is very angry. But I allow me to express my hope that in the autumn of the present, we will make peace, and we will do our part to make a successful decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-73.u19	A respectable president. I have to admit, I don't really know exactly what route I am in right now by paying a vote on this change proposal. Hv. Its carrier is one of a bill of more part of the employment committee that was submitted here, and it is now decided to postpone until the fall. He put up a hard fight against his own proposal to attend the II Parliament's program for discussion. The middle party then participated in an agreement regarding the end of the council. Then there's a new proposal that -- all I have to say right now - is no more than to strike political cones at home in the province. I think it's kind of a way to work. It would be assumed by everyone regarding the agreement that was made here on the end of this matter, materially, would be postponed until the fall, to discuss it, and the actual fishing costs would simply be extended, as a motion for a greater part of the professional trade committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-73.u20	A respectable president. Of course, I support this proposal written by the Central Party representative, and of course we support. I wonder, though, about a talk. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson, the Otter's Proppér, who comes up here, opens up, spreads himself wide, thinks he can have the right of the council to make suggestions. I don't know what information. A senator has, but this discussion has never been negotiated. That's making a hard Sigurður. Jónsson I think the Senator should go to the Generals' Web site and investigate a little... [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-73.u21	Hv. A senator is an explanation for his vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-73.u22	...how? A senator spoke and how to react. A senator has fought for this matter. Imagine those words falling here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-73.u23	Mr. President. Longevity is in danger of extinction. Fish are permitted because of treaties that do not involve any damage to the government. However, since the government does not want to tear it down, it is reasonable that, in any other way, it will be paid in order to minimize harm to life by catching life. So we add fifty-fold of long-term fishing costs, but it seems to us that there's a very modest rise, which I hope all naturalists are united in supporting. Unlike anything else that is under consideration in this matter, it is in a way threatened with extinction that it cannot be waited until the autumn. It's a simple way to fix a big problem.
