ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-11-1.u1	Borist has a letter from the 12th. We're out of Suðvest. "The Guðmundur Ingi, the son of Kristinsson, "that he will not be able to attend next week. A letter has also been received from Porta's acting chairman of Congress on the 3rd. Smoke. N., O.K., Hrafn Gunnarsson, can't do any next session. So today, on Tuesday, September 11, take place at the General Assembly, which served to protect the 1st of the group's group's album in the district convention, Jónína Björk Óskarsdóttir, and 2nd deputy of Pirata in the district, Sara Elísa Þórðardóttir, who has announced a series of pasturages. In the past, Elísa, the daughter of Þórðardóttir, who was invited to serve at the General Assembly, is invited to serve.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-11-1.u2	John Björk Óskarsdóttir has already been investigated and agreed, but she has not previously taken her place in the General Assembly, so it is to be signed as a pledge to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-11-1.u3	Jónína Björk Óskarsdóttir has signed his commitment to the Constitution and is welcome to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-11-1.u4	Borist has announced a change in the reign of Pirata's council so that Halldóra Mogensen is a new vice president, while Thorldur Ævarsdóttir Hevarsdótir continues to be a member of Congress and Jón Þór Ólafsson is the secretary. Then is Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson the new president of Pirata.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-11-1.u5	For example, on August 27, 2018, the president of the Council has received an announcement of changes in human affairs, such as the 16th century B.C.E. Congress. Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir will take the seat of Smári Mccarthyr on the pro board. Smári Mccarthy will take the place of the Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson of the Economic and Business Commission, and the Helgi of Hrafn Gunn Gunnarsson will take place in the General and Education Committee instead of the Thorfjörn Ævarsdóttir Avarsdótir. These changes will be considered approved without a vote if they do not object.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-11-1.u6	Prominent prime minister on behalf of the government, as stated in Article 62. Conferences, and discussions about it tomorrow, Wednesday, September 12th, will begin with the discussion. 6:30. Meeting arrangements are made for the discussion. Passing takes three, eight minutes, five minutes, and four minutes, but prime minister has 16 minutes to go.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-11-1.u7	Relations have to be searched from the council, i.e. 4 mg. Section 3. Congress, so that, in part, the seat of the chairman of Congress is special, and they are next to the hall and are drawn to one another. If you don't object, look at these variations approved. According to this, the seat of the council classes is: The Birgir of the Year's Ármannsson, the seat of two, Oddden G.; the rough Harðardóttir of Gunnar Bragi, Sveinsson, the seat of 8; the seat of Egilsdóttir Eglundur, the seat of the 13th, Hanna Friðriksson, 22, Gunnarsdóttir Gunnarsdur, is the seat of the 23th, Thorhild Sunna Ævarsdóttir, 44, and Ólafur Ísleifsson, the son of 45. In addition, there has been a agreement on what things should take place before the wind. Inga Sæland Land and Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson's senators have a seat that is especially suitable for them. Gets Inga Sæland Seat 6 and Guðmundur Inngi Kristinsson, number 14.
