ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u1	Borist has a letter from the 6th. Southk, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, that she can't do any next week's Senate work. So yesterday, Tuesday, September 12th, at the General Assembly of the 1st United States Company, Niegur Sigurðsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u2	The Book of Njörður Sigurðsson has already been investigated and approved, but he has not previously taken his place in the Council and is therefore under oath to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u3	Sigurðsson has signed his pledge to the Constitution and is welcomed to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u4	It is a meeting between the presidents and the council groups that a meeting meeting today may last longer. 20 if necessary. Today, there will be a general debate over the budget bill following the history of finance and economic ministers. Tomorrow, so Prime Ministers will participate in discussions about individual lawsuits. It is a meeting arrangement, as is 3 mg. Sixty-seven. Congress. The financial and economic minister has up to 15 minutes to the very beginning. The right to return to return will be emptied, i.e. It must be ensured that representatives of all government groups will be able to give a full answer to a minister's speech. After that, one spokesman speaks from each body of Congress for ten minutes each. Other members of the council have ten minutes, and they have a standard contraband.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u5	A respectable president. I recommend a bill for the budget of the year 2019, paragraph 149 of the legislature. I think I have to say at the beginning of my speech that it is rather time-consuming for the discussion, but I still think that by the new arrangement we've adopted in recent years, where ministers come and answer each one to their case, we have developed the discussion of the budget for the better. The financial bill follows a bill that was delivered under a very unusual situation at the end of the year. There were the first steps to support the advancement of government policy, but its financial outline was further developed into financial programs for 2019-22023 last spring. This bill is presented in furtherance of the political emphasis displayed in the program and was primarily marked by the government's theme that all society benefits from the present economic growth and that the future should be trusted in social stability, prosperity, and quality of life. According to the bill, the balance of the state funds will be 1% of land production or 29 billion dollars, which is consistent with the implementation of financial and financial objectives, but the management of the state funds has been positive in the last few years despite substantial growth of budgets, especially for health, social, insurance, and housing. A respectable president. The economy of the past few years has been marked by vigorous growth. There the rise of tourism has made a difference, and various secondary activities have benefited from the growth of tourists. More traditional economics have supported the growth and also appoint high-tech and mental powered industry to have a larger place in national production. There are now indications that the climax was reached. Predictions suggest that growth decline and national growth have the opportunity to find a new balance. Despite the high status of the state funds and the resistance of the state's budgets have increased as a result of heavy debt and national interest, it is clear that the future income growth cannot be as high as it has been in recent years. Not to be overlooked is the fact that the contribution of the State Fund is sensitive to the outside environment and the progress of the economy. Thus, public financialism is characterized by caution and firmness and for the work that can be done to strengthen social and economic stability. In this regard, there has been an advantage for the future by subsiding and paying back a debt. In recent years, good employment, low inflation, high economic growth, and rapidly improving quality of life have been characterized. There has been a 25% increase in financial resources in the past four years, and it continues to work hard to protect that position, the high success, with stability, with lower inflation and a reasonable remuneration in which the growth in the country is being observed, all of which are driven by competitive factors with increased value. A respectable president. The budget bill allows the economy to grow by nearly 3% this year on a significant increase in economic growth in recent years. Predictions indicate over 2.5% growth per year over the next few years. This will work if all the underlying variables are maintained, all key factors, if there are no unexpected events, and it can be said that the projection of about 2.5% growth in the coming years is somewhat near the long term growth rate of the economy. Although growth declines, it remains considerable and substantially greater than many developed economic systems in Europe can expect. Thus, the economic situation is considered to be good at most standards, such as in the opinion of credit companies on the state funds, but Iceland's credit ratings have increased steadily over the past few years and is now being assessed in the A category for the state's funds for key credit companies. The positive changes in government loans have not occurred on their own, but they are the result of a disciplined economic government that has emphasized the importance of using economic conditions to pay off debt. In this way government funds, such as deposit and stability, have become monopolized and temporary income, but the value of stock markets has also been new to reduce debt and pay on the debt of pensions, which in the long run has improved the sustainableity of the financial budget. Thus, the total debt dropped by 658 billion. in six years and the proportion of land production decreased from 86% at the highest in 2011 to 31% as predicted by the end of this year. Between the middle of the year 2017 and mid - 2018, 88 billion dollars fell. This means that debt has dropped by 10 million. every hour. The public, state, and rural development plans will meet the criteria of the state's financial debt by the end of the year. Because of these measures, pure interest costs are estimated to be about 26 billion lower in 2019 than in 2011. These are pure interest charges. V.E.G. President. A good job situation, a rising price of property, and a high pay raise have greatly improved the financial status of most people. A standard of living has probably never been better in Iceland, as the recent report on the economic situation in terms of collective agreements. In contrast, raises and higher protests of paypayers in the pension fund have reduced the competitiveness of employment in foreign areas. It is clear that this is the product of economic growth, and it is essential that the competitive articles become the ones that will lead to the development of pay for the next few years. The key to increased competitiveness is not a lower level of competitiveness, and thus the reduced commerciality of the public, as has been so often tested, but we are to focus on another project that is to improve competitiveness with greater production and a more powerful source of value. The public can add to the scales to promote economic and social stability, which can then be supported again in the labour market. The government has already taken an important step toward this, with its declaration since February of this year and the subsequent action that has been reversed. that there is an increase in pay payments, payments in maternity and unemployment insurance. In the coming winter, a lot of conniving contracts will be available. The government has given high priority on conversation and cooperation with the labour market partners, while it is clear that agreements will have a major impact on the economic environment. Part of that conversation has been about the role of the state in a private conversation and has been viewed primarily as a sharing of tax systems and reform systems, as well as housing. Clearly, there is limited scope for the increase in salary, since during the past few years, there has been rapid pay increases and pay increases are up to the limit of what is considered manageable, such as has been traced to a recent report on the subject. Thus, the emphasis on a dress interview will be on a number of other factors than on the remuneration agreements. In view of this and the fact that in a government contract there is a clear insistence on reducing a law, a co-election bill is proposed to take action aimed at promoting contracts in the labour market. In the February above statement, the government declared that, in the context of the review of collective agreements, a review of the income tax system would be started with emphasis on reduction of tax burden and possible changes in the arrangement of personal discounts and cooperation with a reform system designed to support commercial groups. This emphasis was shown in the budget of 2019◯223, which was estimated to decrease the scale of a decrease of 1 percent in a lower level of income tax. In order to achieve the target for taxation changes to serve in particular the interests of the earners of the income, a personal discount is suggested to increase by 1 percentage over a legal 12-month increase in index price in 2019. At the same time, the budget is to correct the inconsistencies that have been in indexing numbers between character discounts and the upper level of income tax, or budgeting below and upper level. We are now going to fail by attaching the limits of the upper level, the sum limit of money, to the index prices, as is the case with personal discount. This will be equal between different income groups to the tax system more. With such measures, the total income of individuals increases by 1.7 billion dollars. next year. Concomitant increases in personality discounts and stairway boundaries of the upper tax step to the new index will significantly increase pediatric improvement, corresponding to 1.6 billion k. When compared with the financial program. This involves a 17% rise between 2018 and 2018. The corresponding growth rate is about 13%. In addition to increasing the amount of money and thresholds of reduced children's improvement, a new step in child damage is expected to ensure that the impact of the child's recovery system is primarily due to low income and lower intermediate groups. The budget is then suggested to reduce insurance costs at the beginning of 2019 by 0.25 percentage points and again by 0.25 percentage points at the beginning of 2020. The effect of the two steps except for a 9.3% reduction in the overall insurance bill. Changing the tax pools and benefits of individuals as well as insurance costs reduces the pay and the paypayers and ensures that arrangements are increased. High paid taxes are likely to require higher pay requirements and high paying taxes will reduce their ability to pay higher wages. The agreements on buying and choosing how to share that burden, but this corruption by government, are indiscriminately detracted from the wages and the remunerations and thus improved for collective agreements. A respectable president. For 2019, bill and bill mark further steps with increased donations for the focus of the government. Health costs will increase by 6% in 2019, by 12.6 billion, and contributions to social, housing and insurance services by 13.3 billion, corresponding to a 7% increase in real value. Much of that increase is explained by 4 billion dollars. contribution due to planned global social security changes in order to improve the quality of disability. In addition, costs increase by 2.3 billion. due to an increase in unemployment improvements from May 1 onwards, in accordance with the above declaration, to a minimum of 90%. At that time, transport and communications contributions are increasing significantly in 2019, with an increase of 43.6 billion in the next year. The budget of 2019 also shows that investments continue to be emphasized in the interiors, with the highest force in the construction of a new land hospital on the Ring Road, which will be spent at a total of 7.2 billion dollars. the next year, in addition to the efforts to build up the road system, it continues, as laid down in the government covenant. Other larger investment projects include the first contributions to purchase new helicopters for the Homeland Guard, which are expected to be delivered in 2022, as well as the construction of the Icelandic language. In all, the total budget of the state between 7% of the year and more than 55 billion will increase, whereas the total wealth of the state is expected to increase by nearly 52 billion dollars. After years of financial collapse, it was clear that a significant increase in money was needed to spend almost every subject in the state. However, the growth of the Kingdom budget can never be a goal in itself. The important thing is that funding is used effectively so that the work produces the most results and the quality of the country, as well as the least capital. The Ministry of Economics is now laying the groundwork for reassessments. This is a systematic analysis of the basic expenditures of specific tasks or lawsuits and what has led to their development of costs. Such methodology has given rise to well elsewhere, and there are many examples of such reassessments seeing opportunities for new priorities, better uses, and reorganization in the financial sectors. A respectable president. Economic development in recent years has proved to be very effective. The remainder of the business balance and survival of the official is reflected in increasing national savings, but as well as the debt of state funds dropped, large amounts of money have been paid into the pension debt, as has been established. These measures increase the long-term sustainability of the state's budget and prevent living generations from increasing the standard of living at the expense of the ones to follow. The provision of the National Fund with the legalisation of this council, which is intended to collect money from energy resources as a kind of reserve to meet large and unpredictable events, may support the policy of sustainable public finance as well as a wise provision for profit from the common resources of the nation. It is important now, when it can be assumed that in the postwar years, the continuation of trust and caution in the administration of public funds is maintained. In these words, proper president, I suggest that the bill will be followed by this discussion referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. The budget board.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u6	Mr. President. Sometimes I don't realize the difference between the lndependenceman Bendegartson and the minister of finance Bjarni Benediktsson's son. I know that more people in this room are wondering about this difference. We'll now have a budget bill, where Bjarni Benediktsson, secretary of finance, and his fellow ministers will boast of the government expenditures here and there. All right, I'll agree you need more money for older citizens, more money for young people, more money for the sick. But I can't say that more money is needed for the big money. There's no need for any more money to get to Kristján's Loftsson. According to this, I don't understand an independent Bjarna Benedictson who approved his last meeting, just a few months ago, that the government's expenses needed to be reduced by 10 percentage points of land production. It means cutting down the public, cutting down hospitals, law enforcement, schools, etc., about 300 billion dollars. Mr. President. I have to admit, I don't understand a lot of independence when it comes to this. What exactly does this group want? He wants 100 billion bucks. an expansion of wood, like the outfit told voters before the last election, or wants it 300 million. K. what he says at his national meetings?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u7	A respectable president. It would be a good idea if we were at the Independence Party meeting and were here to gather the conclusions of a party, but we're not. We're at the council discussing the budget of the Independence Party, the left green and the forwarding party. If people want to talk to me about my expenses and whether it is growing, I say: It is a huge joy for us Icelanders to have left the situation of being the poorst among European nations at the turn of 1900 and thus to have grown to the point of mourning that they can do better in virtually every aspect of society, with little more than they have done in the past. This is how everyone today speaks of the marvelous growth of the budget at the same time as the cost of land production has dropped, as shown on page 6. 94 on the budget bill, with about 35% of national production down to 30% of the target. Of course, this is wonderful results, that we can put more on the health and welfare systems, more support with children's families, less income, that we can put more in the wood, drill through mountains, strengthen the road system, buy a new Navy, new helicopters, etc., without any amount of burden being made. This is a marvelous achievement and is evidence that we are taking advantage of an economic rise in the country to do better for all the people of the country. That's what it's all about. These budgets, of the right priorities, of living for the future and not going ahead, of making good money, of having long - term vision of how these things develop. And since then what has been the indirect consequence of this course? She has even. It has been that at the time, many in this country have said that we are spending too much - well, those who value the state's status have never appreciated the status of the state's funds that has even been better. They are listed in the best loans ever given to the Icelandic government on foreign markets. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u8	Mr. President. V.E.G. Secretary of finance speaks of remarkable success. Let's take a closer look at the budget. Just one third of the cost of removing the so - called dollar to against a dollar is enough to cover the cost. The increase to the elderly is mainly due to an increase in this group. There is no big effort to meet the poor in that group. Once again, we see that the poor and older citizens have to wait another year for justice and the necessary compensation. The colleges, let's see them. They still receive half as much as what was promised in the government covenant. And the colleges, let's see them. According to this financial bill, there is a decrease in contribution to them from year to year. Let's take a look at the hospital service. It gets 2.5 billion. All right, but that's more than half as much as what the governor of the Land Hospital said a few months ago that the hospital just needed to ensure minimum services. Again, the minister talks about priorities. It is a peculiar priorities for this nation to see a reduction in the annual fishing spending of about twice as much as that government would have to put in the rise of the 500 - year personality discount. - 500 bucks. is the addition to which this government is prepared to raise the personal discount of over-employment. Finally, I'd like to ask a minister only about the crown's gangs. She's in a freefall now. After this bill was introduced by a minister, she became particularly angry. We specifically pointed out this when we were putting up the financial program. For the next five years, the financial program, with its five - year - olds, is expected to make the difference in incidence. One expert came to the budget board. He said: "What exactly were people doing when they decided to make sure that they were going for five years? The crown's walking directly affects tax revenues by personal consumption, inflation, etc. so that the core priority of the programme and bill has already fallen. For the past 15 years, no currency within the OECD has been swinging as much as dollars. [[The president calls.]] The crown's roller coaster ride has again begun. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister: When is enough of this currency really useful only to a very narrow group of capital owners?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u9	A respectable president. We've got two teams coming in. This is the case with expenses. It's so hard. A senator thinks that the expense gate is not made enough. This is what I talked about yesterday, and we'll continue to discuss, that some in this room feel that we're doing too much on the budget side and that we don't ask enough whether we're going to be successful according to expenses. I think that's a very good question. However, here it is claimed that there is not enough work to be done, and then, of course, following through, we should have higher taxes. That's exactly why I don't agree. I think we have found a good balance between reducing the ban on employment at a time when the competitiveness of our country has deteriorated substantially and the balance of our expenses and our long - term goals. It is claimed that the government's special importance is to reduce fishing costs. That's not true. It is time for humans to realize that hunting costs will go up, and they will go down after the publication of this article. It is the nature of the hunting fees, just as the taxes on the law will go up and go down to the rest of the companies in the country. Then the currency's welfare is asked. No doubt, it was a good methodology in the states and in some dictatorial countries that people set up national and financial policies under the same roof. We won't. We have our own notions about the development of the currency's success but based on public figures and doing so in an open, transparent process. The official predictions are the basis for the budget. This, of course, is the only way we can keep working. Those who believe that they can predict the five years in advance will undoubtedly have very good problems in general and are dealing with something other than sitting here. What stands out is that the currency has supported a high standard of living that is measured by most standards today among the nations. [[The president calls.]] There is no independent goal in maintaining a constant currency if a constant currency does not build up a good standard of living. But we've been getting both.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u10	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance for this passage. Only in terms of interest. V.E.G. Ministers are promoting growth improvements in the bill. The conclusion, however, is that this is not really an increase. In fact, it is seen in black in white on the bill, where there will be $3.4 billion, but there were 4 billion last year. The large increase in housing prices in recent years has eaten up the growth improvements and is one of the primary contributing factors in growth growth growths of the value of property. Since 2010, interest improvements have dropped by more than 8 billion. and the families entitled to them dropped by 30,000. So a lot of people have been replaced. Real funds cannot be found in this series of growths. At the same time, the number of interest improvements in housing is getting fewer and fewer. In that case, real estate costs have increased by more than 50%, as a result of huge increases in prices for housing. The result, then, is this: At the same time the house owner's taxes have greatly increased. What's important about this is the limit of limits, i.e. when growth improvements begin to decline. In no way have growth reforms and degradation limits been correlated with prices. In addition, peak interest rates have remained almost the same since 2011. The cutting off of the stratospheric growth reforms must be changed. It would be nice to know from the highest level. A minister would be able to tell us which groups in the community should be the head of interest.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u11	A respectable president. When I woke up this morning, I read an article after. A senator with whom he spoke about his concern that the booth was growing, that expenses for all lawsuits would grow out of control. He was so worried, especially on behalf of the Independence Party. In fact, I did so well that I kindly answered all the concerns. A senator in a speech yesterday. But then you show up for the council to work here, and it's the same thing. A senator who says, "Preparations don't grow too much. " How is it possible for people to cut backs so that they can be treated with increased interest payments? This is the same man who has a very different vision of the expenses of a government fund in one morning, before noon. When it comes to building housing support, interest payments, housing benefits to those in the rented house, building support for the State's building of social housing, looking to the special means of saving, paying taxes, watching government action to cancel half of the clock costs due to the first purchases, we are always talking about government and government operations, often in cooperation with rural society and union society, in order to lighten the threshold on the housing market or to keep our housing and roof over the family head. These are multiple actions. None of them will be separated from anyone else. It's all right here, that the growth reform system was yielding. But at the same time, we have spitd in other places. With all of this together, you can see that housing support in the budget is growing from year to year. However, the issue is actually about whether we should have a growing system, such as what we have. Is it wise to encourage people to borrow more and then come back and pay off the interest? Could it be that we should spend more energy on maintaining growth than on worrying about the high level of interest each year, which is a consequence of living with too high interest costs? [[The president calls.]] I say, let's put all the power in a discussion about stability, the environment for less growth in the country, because there's no action that will do more for families who take on long term bonds than the one that guarantees the lower size of the housing bar. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u12	Mr. President. Yes, I hear that, sir. Secretary of finance will read The Morning. It's just fine. He was deeply concerned that I read the Morning Press in the previous winter. It's good to know that he does and stick to his outwards as he is one of them. In 2009, 69% of the single property owners received interest. By 2017 this figure had fallen to 28%. If the rules cannot be changed, this foretold increase in growth is meaningless. In fact, I could say, and I heard it at the highest. Minister, the growth reform system is ruined. Adding money into a ruined system is a bad provision. V.E.G. A minister did not comment on social reforms. You're right. You're right. You're right. You're going to get it straight. And then you're going to stop these exits. But he is welcome to continue reading the Morning Press for my sake.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u13	A respectable president. Of course, these are those who receive mostly interest benefits that are less money and less money. It is the nature of the growth reform system, and that in itself has not been altered. What has changed, however, is that more people have more money and more make more money. As a result, smaller amounts of money become the growth reform system. But as I have mentioned, at the same time, we have spent a considerable amount of money on other operations, including those on the Internet. to strengthen the rent market, social housing, a special correction procedure of 80 billion years ago not many years ago, etc., tax charges due to the assessment of property savings. All these measures - for what? To improve the state of the homes. May I ask, How's it been going? How did things work out to improve the status of the households after the collapse of financial companies? The situation is this: The legal economy of the households has changed for the better. The homes' holdings are higher. Fewer are missing. But there is a challenge that has to do with the first purchases. It contains, not some magic solution to the problem, but a variety of measures that turn away completely from increasing weights and thus a greater supply of smaller apartments. Ways to reduce construction costs are also important. The stability I mentioned earlier with lower interest costs is important. What's the situation with the show? The situation is that for Icelanders who have taken mortgages to invest in their own real estate, the real interest in housing never in history has been lower than that of today. It also affects the growth reform system. When people pay less interest, the growth process is less efficient. I have to explain a certain surprise that some people seem to think that we should have just some regular interest in funding and make sure that it is always there, regardless of what is happening in the real economy, in the country's homes on income, property status, etc. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u14	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. Secretary of finance for reviewing the budget bill for next year. It was a great deal of success that has been achieved in terms of how the cost of GDP would have dropped, which is certainly true, but it compared with the expenditures that were in the middle of a collapse when we took on an extra charge of a third hundred billion. I don't think that's a very good reference point on a scale. The more important it is that the same talk has been given before in this hall. It was probably a very similar figure for a 2008 budget talk. It was probably very similar when a talk was presented for the budget work in the year 2000. It's an Icelandic swing. This is the time point in the economy, where the government funds can hardly know what they're talking about. It flows into the state funds, since all of his taxes are at a climax. Private consumption is at a climax. Investment of professional life is at the pinnacle. Investment in an apartment building is at a climax, and it would continue to be counted. All of these are factors that give up an enormous amount of money. Returning a government fund with leftovers at this point is not a particularly remarkable achievement in the Icelandic circle. It is quite remarkable, however, to be able to spend all that money. What I wondered when I listened to a talk. The minister of finance was: What is different now? It's never worked out so well. There's never been a very good idea in the Icelandic economy at this point, and that's why we have this swing currency. That is why we have tremendously high stature. The answer is, the highest. Secretary of finance, don't take the initiative to subsidize bad business, as the government seems to intend. The answer is to try to improve their problem in general by improving their practice, by making real changes. They're not here. I'd like to hear the highest. Secretary of finance tells me why we should believe that it will be different now and so often before. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u15	A respectable president. For example, when compared with earlier years of spending, it is entirely fitting that expenses were very high between 2010 and 2011, which, for example, is remarkable to the picture that we have from that time largely added expenses to framed primary spendings for all causes without the total share of land production. It is because of remarkable results in payment, but of course it is also because the land production has grown to such an extent that the proportion has remained in spite of interest. It's actually a debate in one side about where we just set the spending level on the top of the economy. The only thing I can really point out in this regard to calm my thoughts. The senator is that we're returning the rest, we're headed for 20% of the public financial debt during the strategy period. If we reach 20% of our debt, we are in public finance of about one year. 300 billion under credit of 30%. Ten percent below the debt line is about 300 billion allowances, which only tell their own story on their own. Kingdom funds are now as a proportion of land production depends on what it was in the wake of the collapse. If this is not evidence that we are making the best of the future, I don't know what would satisfy us. A senator on that subject. You can hardly assume that there is more to be done in such a short time. But I'm not going to go against it. A senator when it comes to managing the budget development, and I have therefore emphasized that we are reevaluating our budgets, that they carefully look at new annual reports, and that they look at the goals of the advisers, and that they are funded in the direction we follow. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's a new procedure, it's a chance to go into the stitches, and I don't doubt that it's right next to the oat. A senator and many others felt that in some places we are spending money that would be better placed on the rest of the money or on some other project. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u16	The president prays to the highest level. Minister and minister. Senators watch their deadlines. Here is a spaced counterclockwise, and the day will be long if that is not enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u17	A respectable president. For example, I miss the answer to why we should expect this to be different now and so often before. It's an Icelandic swing. Sadly, there are a number of indications that are already under way. This raises the question when the expenses of the state's budget are stretched to the limit on the basis of income companies at a maximum. We know exactly how fast they yield even for moderate imaging adjustments in the economy. When we look at the story, we also know that the Icelandic swing is about every 10 years, we go through surgery. Every 20 years, it's hard. Every 20 years, it is relatively soft. We went through a decade ago through a very hard adjustment. There is no reason why I know to fear it again. But there is good reason to be cautious about what might be called smooth adjustment. Such adjustments have also proved that even in the soft landing, the income of a government fund is seriously affected by such adjustments. When a financial minister here recommends a budget bill with a increase of 60 billion, which is only the first step in the budget of this government's 200 billion increase over the next five years, it can be asked: What taxes will be raised to finance this expansion? Because it's perfectly clear that this is not going to be financed. The assumptions of the budget and the proposed financial programme of the government are already out of place. The judges are already out of their minds. Already there is clear evidence that the cooling of the economy is much faster than the last spring. Government funds will not live up to the expenditures that are being provided here nor will they be paid in a five-year financial programme. Therefore, a simple question, a respectable minister of finance: Which taxes are to be raised? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u18	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying that there's a fresh guy, and she's fresh, and she's welcome to come here for a financial debate, in which people don't throw their fists and say, "There's more money in all the lawsuits. This has actually been the beginning of the budget over the past few years and the health - care system at the top of this discussion. It's different now. We are now saying that we have reached the outer limit for growth, and we need to consider slowing down and even not being incomprehensible, as it were. A senator puts it, for an exposé in an existing budget bill. What Has Changed? Why should we believe this now beyond what was here in the past when we have been going through a swing? I'll tell you what I think is different. It's a whole different economy. We are simply not a fish nation anymore. We've improved energy efficiency. Now, in recent years, we have had a travel service, a business equalized in spite of warehouses. It's just a whole different economy than we used to live in here in the first economy. A whole different economy. We have a much more diverse economy. We have greater access to international markets. We have more members of the Icelandic economy, which are based on their products in international commerce. In the past, the balance of the state's debt has rarely been better to cope with tragedy. Talk about sustainable state funds back here in the past... the debt of Pension left unfunded... as we can see from an unfunded 600 billion commitments in the B League. So have we. We've closed this thing down with the A department and we've started paying down the B department. So there's a lot more sustainable in all of our actions. We're working on a long-term plan. All of this tells me that we are in a much different position. I'm not even discussing the scale of the financial system, the more efficient, the better financed by my own money, etc. but before that. We are simply in a different position to cope with tragedy. [[The president calls.]] I'm not thinking of any tax promotions. I think if we hit the bank, as this indicates could happen then we need to adapt to that reality. [[The president calls.]] It would be better to lower taxes to help people through that time than to raise them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u19	A respectable president. I hope after me the members of the board will represent me because if there was now a serious separation between the legislature and the executives, the members of the administrations, or members of the administrations, would want to ask the Supreme Court as well. Secretary of finance. I wanted to think about what would happen if my goals were not met. Lately, economic forecasts have been reduced, and in recent years they have been lower. What is going on, and what measures will be delayed if we do not achieve these targets and need to delay to achieve the financial goals set out in financial policy? A financial minister here talked about the debts and how we're headed down to 20%, that's not a pension commitment. I have also heard in committee work the need to maintain a certain debt balance on markets and markets. I'd like to learn a little about it, whether the message we receive from the Committee on this debt line is consistent with the 20% debt line we're headed for. The budget bill has also changed a lot of action and some goals, depending on the financial agenda. There's no cost assessment of the operation yet. It looks like the government says we want 19 billion and we're going to make this long list of measures. But we don't know it. We don't know if it's a realistic estimate that it takes 19 billion for these actions. I'd like to reiterate improvements in the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u20	A respectable president. It is asked: " If our goal is not met, what will we do? Just with all due respect, I thought I was once on a drive with my daughter, and she asked me if I had ever had a collision. I said, "It's actually happened, but not often. " But what if someone comes and stumbles on us? I said, "Well, we have to hope that there won't be a lot of trouble, and we'll just deal with it if it happens, just like if there's some goal we've set for the goods of the Kingdom, we don't go after it, we'll deal with it. Then we'll discuss whether we need to take action at the expense gate and then where, or if there are any other ways to handle it. But we certainly need to discuss it here. I'm talking about the debt end of the line. Just listen. Councilmen, it's what we're talking about. We're discussing the possibility that we've just come too far down with our debts. This, of course, tells a story about how the state funds have changed in terms of these things. That's exactly the tip of the question. A senator would naturally have a position of debt left out in a bond market to help keep the depth of the debt, thus forming a leg of interest. This is true not only in domestic markets but also in foreign editions so that we clear the way for the market into a foreign market and make certain floors on which others can build on top. There is truly reason to consider this. I don't think we've come far down with our debts that this is going to be some kind of special problem. I just mentioned 20% to put it in context of the debt target, between the domestic product of 3,000 billion in which we are going, 300 billion. But to the second, I refer to the long-term plan on this. With respect to policy and cost assessment, I agree with that. Senator. It matters when the Ministry is setting out its goals and policies in individual lawsuits. We are trying to develop the ability of the advisers to do this better and better each year, and of course it is important that there is some realistic assessment behind their financing of projects. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u21	A respectable president. I'd like to grab off the budget bill on page 20. 111 points out that general resources due to the assessment of pay paid in a special pension fund to buy an apartment or pay loans, fall down in the middle of the next year. This is likely to reduce payments in the later part of the year and lead to an increase in income taxation stocks up to perhaps 1.1 billion. It is an interesting intervention with regard to the current conditions of housing where people have evidently been using this additional provisions to pay off mortgages. It is interesting to see how this affects the house's debt and even whether people buy apartments. It affects whether people have the ability to pay off their loans and would be interesting to hear about it. This is not a small thing for many because our system is built up in the way - and I also see in the budget that some changes in the pension system - that when we get into pensions are actually assumed that we have a home, that we have a debtless home. If we have rent expenses or are still paying off our mortgages, the pension incomes will do no good. So we have to lay this foundation very clearly. Let's take good care of him. Back to the cost of action only. I think they're very important to the council so that we senators know what we're really accepting. Here, the government puts in place certain measures for us and says, "I need 19 billion for this. - Should we just say okay and not ask anything further or get more information? I've often asked about a closer cost estimate, but I haven't usually had one. That's available in larger and more organized projects, such as the road, etc., we have some good plans for what the benefits of that operation will cost us. [[The president calls.]] But most things are missing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u22	A respectable president. In terms of cost issues and policies, development or policy development in government programmes, I'd like to reiterate what we've discussed before that we're making a big impression but also the responsibility of a single group of advisers on these issues. It also appears in its own way regarding the copy of this publication, the Ministers have authority within the budget to set their priorities within a copy of this guide and to shift money according to their focus, as ministers assess the need for it, and it is then discussed with the financial committees. This is the perfect subject for tomorrow with the modern - day counsellers. With regard to the special savings and tax-free resources we have been using, we are now nearing the end of a period in which we had a general tax appeal for everyone on account of the mortgage in their time, but the legislation remains, with particular attention to the first apartment buyers. This was always thought of as temporary resources, this general remedy that will run its course for the next year. When we announced at the time that time it was running out of time to get into this process, the vast number of applications for participation, I remember. I think it would be very interesting when this milestone comes to our understanding of how many people have made use of the resources and the total financial resources. Other than that, I can agree with many things. A senator says about the facility market and saving the country. There's an important connection between us. But I usually think that history shows both here and elsewhere that if we allow people to have their own housing, they are more likely in later years to have it between their hands. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u23	Mr. President. I appreciate the Minister's review of the budget bill in his lead speech. I pause at the final words, in which he acts on plans for the establishment of a so - called national fund, a word that has been heard several times before, including in connection with a financial programme earlier this year. If you understand correctly, you are expected to make a profit from energy resources in this fund. Hence, it is expected that in a relatively short period of time, a large amount of money may be collected that could even run at tens or hundreds of billions of dollars. In other words, reenacting this is a cutting - down concept of what might be called a significant organizational change in the financial affairs of the State. Therefore, I feel that there is a need for further enlightenment than has been made as to the intentions of this fund. What circumstances could lead to its outlets, and who could enjoy such an arrangement? What will be the relationship between the treasure of the Kingdom and the treasure of the nations? How will the government of this treasure be administered? Is it the kind of treasure that the seabed's prices were in the past century but lost? Who should be the fund's investment policy? What work is the fund to do as a trust fund?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u24	A respectable president. We'll have plenty of time to discuss the national fund and its laws when the bill comes out, but I'm still happy to have the opportunity to discuss it briefly. The big picture is this: The debt status of the state's budget is becoming self-sustained and not much of a concern when we continue to reduce our debt. We've wrapped up the pension bonds in the A League. We have a plan on how we're going to deal with pension bonds in the B League. So, besides the debt and other commitments of the state's funds, we have a credible plan on how we're going to deal with this. We're here to discuss that the government's spending levels are reasonably high. Some feel that it's too loud, and we should go to reevaluations instead of adding. In the face of such circumstances, for the first time in the history of Land induction, a wealth of money is getting much more money than ever before. There is not much time since the economic situation of land infusions was actually concerned, but the company has paid a lot of debts and has been building new fortresses and adding to the commercial cover, so over the years, we are looking for significant growth in agricultural payments. Therefore, the idea of a national fund is in my mind not a great structural change, but a lot more to show that we are coming to major milestones in that we are reaping crops after sowing these seeds with energy in our country. Now it is time to answer the question about whether we're going to allow our money to flow through the state's budget to be paid conventional, or whether it's wise to put this money aside, which can, yes, if forecasting, and nothing unexpected happens, of course, I'll put every effort on it as man should, in this case there may be over a hundred billion and in a relatively few years or less than two decades, even 200 billion. It is my opinion that it is wise to put it in the barns and have provisions to raise the financial resources, to trust in the system, and to be prepared for any future traumas. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u25	I appreciate your answer. Secretary of finance. In fact, I am no closer to the means by which this fund would be applied. I am quite aware that there is, of course, any equipment that must have been available for the circumstances that a minister tore up in his answer, which is that a significant amount of money can be predicted based on the range described here on the energy issues. The question is, would it be sufficient for a certain Ministry Department to discuss this case or for a new agency of this kind to be established? I'd like to say, Mr. President, that we don't get an idea, even the simplest piece of information, how this fund works or under what circumstances it would be used or who could enjoy the funds from the fund. Still, it's repeated. I'm quite aware that this is a future bill, and I'm sure it'll be shown. However, I allow myself to say that it is obvious that this is a very important matter at the highest level. Minister. He spends part of his limited time in his advance discourse, but we can see no more information than we can see. All right. There's nothing to say but at least some of us here are waiting for the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u26	A respectable president. It may be with the ultimate rights that men have to point out that there might be more information on this subject. I've just considered that this discussion would take place under a discussion on the matter of Congress itself. It is part of the billing process to answer some of the questions. A senator mentions. I have shown this that there would be a total independentness outside the financial agency's arm that had strict legal conditions on how to handle the time-created income flows or funds. That is true not only of how he is arranged for investments but also of what I see primarily outside the landstones in a scattered, secure collection, as well as of when payment from the fund would be considered. As if I saw it, and I expect it to be discussed in the bill in a very clear way, it would take a lot to come to the store. Then there was no minor short - term trauma, something that is common and can always be expected, but major traumas until the fund is what we could possibly call a trust. I don't think it should be to put into the fund forever just to see it grow and expand, but we have to look forward to building our entire financial system on sustainability. We are outside with well - funded pension bonds and a huge fund in the pension system. The late bank must have the strength to keep good currency reserves, and there is no reason to have some excessive or unrealistic upper limit on the size of such a fund. But it is also part of the discussion of how this arrangement will be best implemented. [[The president calls.]] I've had this feeling that it seems a little bit different to each of us in this. I'm just looking forward to that discussion. If there's no idea of a national fund, it's clear that the payment will just flow into the state fund and we'll take that discussion, how we'll manage the income in connection with the budgets at a time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u27	Mr. President. Of course, when you look at the budget, you see positive things. In the end, the Kingdom is passing some 900 billion dollars. and Iceland is the 11th richest country in the world, so there's room to do things. However, it is clear, according to the United States, that this bill is a substantial factor that causes frustration and space to improve the value of those with the lowest income is not new. For one thing, the government does not seem to be ready to attack the massive scale of property that is directly threatening stability in the labour market. It matters. I know it's the highest. The secretary of finance will be repeated on the subject of stability. However, their stability is threatened by the abundance of possessions. I got tired of pointing out that 1% of the richest Icelanders have more pure possessions than 80% of the population. Let's just get together. Let's take 5%. The 5% richest Icelanders have almost as much as the other 95%. This status shows that this is not the right time. This isn't fair. People are going to hurt it. And for God's sake, fine senators, I'm here talking about property issues. I'm not talking about equal earnings. Let's not let the discussion go down here and there. I'm talking about property issues. He's a big guy in Iceland. The level is considerably higher. I'm focusing on the property equation. He's a problem. That is why it is very strange to have a government that directly contributes to an increase in unsettled possessions. This is not a government that goes the other way and tries to defuse this problem of property. We will see that this is called for a continuation of various things. Reservation is important, of course, we can't do everything for everyone, I'm not asking for it. But I'd like to draw out that it will always be forgotten when we're talking about maintenance in a government business that is not just about cutting down expenses like right men are always getting their hands on. Residents may also include increasing income, increasing the financial resources of the state, especially during this time of the economy, when blacks are raised and should have been done much earlier, as we did in the United States, and others have suggested. We have long called after getting more money from foreign tourists. We've been calling for an increase in carbon tax. One of the first things that this government did was to cancel the proposed rise in carbon tax that the separated government would provide. And now they're going to raise a little bit of carbon money, but the elevations did not reach the proposed increases that would be taken into effect when this so - called green government, which is not very green, in my opinion, took over. The financing tax. It's also a bad income stock. He is now due $2 billion. Less in the state box than the budget plan since spring expected. Of course he's a fluffy tax stock, I'll figure it out. But I remind you, as an example, how well the capital tax works for the highest incomes, to note that only 2% of families paid capital taxes for the stock market. 98% did not. This is also an indication of property balance. It's a used income stock. The money. Of course, whether we look at the fish, the energy, or anything else, we should have handsome resource expenses. According to this bill, hunting costs are 7 billion. The budget bill last year, for this year, 2018, was expected to contain 10 billion dollars. It's 7 billion now. They're supposed to be down 3 billion. I especially remind you that the profits of fishing companies have been tremendous. In a seven - year period, the profit of fishing was 300 billion dollars. In a five - year period, the interest the owners had reduced their companies to 50 billion. Of course, this article is an article that can add to a common fund, especially since it is using a common resource under law. These companies don't have the fish in the water. It's ours. That's why I think it's a 'no-brainer'. But still, the state wants only 1% of its income in the form of a fishing policy. One percent of the government's earnings. It is odd that the people who are owner of this resource need to accept only 1% of their income from their primary resource. It's a peculiar priorities. We're going to do something for the people, we're going to raise a person's discount. All right. What is he about to raise in excess of the price? 530K. Like we would, with a gross bill, the tax limit is rising by $1,500, except for a joint between them. That's all. 530K. an increase in personality discount per month. That's very peculiar. It still stands to reduce the bank tax by 7 billion. Not next year, but according to the plan, the bank tax should be lowered. Is that a priority? Of course he'll someday slip out, I'll figure it out. It was a temporary tax. But is lowering it by 7.3 billion a priority? Do we not have more to do with these 7 billion dollars than to reduce the bank tax? Maybe put him in the hospital? Why not? The people have called for it. We're all authorized to put more money in the hospitals. All classes were elected to it, health issues are number one, two and three in the mind of voters. But if we just look at the hospital service, it'll get half as much, according to the bill, but what the Landsaver told us a world of Congress would have to do just to keep the sea. He said: "We need 2019 5.4 billion. Here comes 2.5. Pay attention. For the next five years, the National Hospital says 87 billion are missing. It says this in the written review of the Land Hospital. And when the Landspians say there are 87 billion missing, I'm not talking about building the hospital, it's out of the range of this, you can't tell the nation that there's a health crisis here. People don't necessarily have to believe me. This is just the land hospital's assessment of what it needs. The money to run into disability is primarily due to the growth in it. Yes, it goes to 4 billion, but it is only enough for one third of the cost of delinquency. According to the bandormins we're going to discuss next week, you're expected to have a private vacation target for your professional biofuels. That's very peculiar. Older people. An increase in funds is mainly due to an increase in the number of them. The government had a high university goal: We're going to reach the OECD target and the Northland target. Still, to get it, you need twice as much money. Half the time. And according to the five - year financial program, it is not expected to get caught. What the government covenant says is just a fraud. Let's take a look at high school. Look at the pages of this magazine. 140 on the bill. There's a drop in college from year to year. What is that in the school system? The law. It is largely elevated by border guards, helicopters, and only by the increasing number of tourists. It has also reached its limit, and it itself has called for the increase in money and money from the government. Total support for housing support. Look at the chart on page 8. 140. There's an increase of 0.8%. V.E.G. A minister in particular said that it was being increased. It's within the margin, I'd say. Considering the topic of housing support, it can be seen that the total cost is almost unchanged from year to year. It's a child's settlement. Yes, it is good for us to stop cutting them under the minimum wage. But I'd like to recall that we've made that two times in this council hall. Of course, children's benefits should not be impaired. And twice these ministers and these government groups have made that suggestion. Of course, we rejoice that child repairs will no longer be impaired under the minimum wage. But better, if it's enough. And now it's time to increase the decline with the middle-of-the-art people. The reduction will be increased in the 450-star population. K. Or more. They're holding back a child's priorities, which is a peculiar setting of priorities. Waxbacks. It is said that there is an increase in growth. No, that was assumed to be 4 billion in interest of this year, only 3 of them are due to the decline, and now the government is going to say 3.4. She calls it an increase. It's not an increase, it's accounting gym. The schedule is still inconceivable, of course not surprising. It is interesting to note that the total increase in public transport is up to $150 million, which is the equivalent of the government's pay force rising because of the growing number of assistants. There's so many things wrong with this bill. [[The president calls.]] There is indeed room to do better here, but it seems that we need a new government, which has more reasonable priorities, which are priorities for ordinary people in this country. [[The president calls.]] This government confirms by this bill that it is not doing it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u28	Mr. President. Just for a second. Now it's gonna hold what? A senator continued to talk about taxing the travel service further. That talk has come a long way from his company in the past few years. I'd like to ask at this point where. A senator wants to continue the tax returns based on the conditions that are developing in the industry, which are then 42% of the nation's currency income, a basic construction road. Where are we going to make further tax returns? Then we do well to ask: We add about 55 billion to the further cost and destruction of the State to the various aspects. It's not enough on the case. What are we talking about that should be added? 50 billion more? 100 billion? 200 billion? Who's the money to be? Where, then, do such ideas lie? What numbers will we discuss? It would be great if we could also get the friendly one, where they're going to go on that discussion. For three years in a row, we have added 50 billion or more to the government's expenses, 7◯9% a year. I want to know what we're going to wear. Shall we increase to 12%? 15%? What's enough?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u29	Mr. President. Only to travel services first. In many respects, this is a lost opportunity. In 2008 500 of you arrived. Tourists, 10 years ago. Today, there are 2.5 million. We should have taken steps long ago at the time, in which tourism was more successful then than it is today, to ensure increased income from tourists. Here were some ideas of raising the merit tax. Of course, the article didn't like it, but I still recall that this country's largest sector is at an exception tax, in the lower level, the second level is 24%, the other one's 11%. [[Up front.]] There are certain products placed in 11%, food and so on. It's strange. Travel services and tourism companies vary as much as there are many of them. Some are very strong, others are sick, I realize that. It's important that there's some thriving tourism here, of course. But it's odd to have stopped an enterprise that pays less worth tax than a average joint in a town. It's strange. There are also other ideas that this government has been shy to talk about. There are ideas of coming charges, excommunications, once there were ideas of natural rights. It just needs to be resolved, because this article, of course, needs an adjustment period. She needs a lead-in period, I'll figure it out. But I now fear that this opportunity is partly lost, unfortunately. But we'll always have a travel service company. We need to take these steps to ensure the increase in income from foreign tourists. Because just as it has to do with the marine export companies and the energy, this industry is taking advantage of a common resource. What's the common resource? It's our nature. It's the human race. It's culture. So we must be ready for a conversation about securing increased income from tourism, just as we would like to gain additional income from other national carriers. I'll come back later to my expenses.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u30	Mr. President. In the years I've been at the council, I've called for a discussion on the economic values of tourism to be deepened, on how things come, and on how they give it to the nation. To be sure, the government's tax returns and the government's tax returns today are 60 to 170 billion, even 80 billion. I guess it's 7◯9% of the government's earnings today that come from this industry. It must deepen the discussion that has been tried to address many of the ways in which these currencypayers appear. They come through the flight business, which is not worth a fortune, but that's the big tax in that context. Then there is 1/3 of the industry in the top step of the bill and about one-third of the bottom. The lower level - this is not an exception. We're in the same place as the rest of Europe. We're in exactly the same place. In Europe there is a lower level of 7◯12%. Thus Europe. We have 11% tax. It's just that I think of Romania and Denmark in the top step. We know that the State is bringing down conferences in Denmark because there is no competitiveness there for those factors. I call on people to stop talking about tax willies, paroles, and such factors. We are competing with other nations. What do you think was going to happen if we were in this position and they had, for example, been in a position like this? increase in the value of a place to stay and this month would occur on top of anything else that is going on within the tourism? I hate that talk, as it happens all the time in a Senate hall, year after year. It is as if people are not listening to what is happening in the country in a business venture that has to deal with the tourism industry. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u31	Mr. President. I feel that this presentation is a testimony to the way independence often approaches the discussion of professional life. This maskless economic care for certain sectors is so obvious, whether it is the fishing route or the transport service today. The general life of the industry is in the top phase. This is the general step for the job, not the tourism. That's what I'm pointing at. I'm saying that maybe it was a mistake not to take that step at the time. I'm willing to look at other routes; coming charges, leaving fees, higher bunk taxes, or whatever the hell it was. I think it would be a public interest to increase income from foreign tourists. Of course, we'd like to have a powerful travel service company, but I'd like them to put more on the common funds. Party dog. Similarly, a senator has called for further government expenditures. 100 billion people, on the home page of the Independence Party, are required to enter the infrastructure. Sometimes I feel like an independent person that money grows on trees. They don't grow on trees, they grow into jobs. [[Up front.]] To get the money, you have to tax it. Free left men are not shy about raising taxes. It's not a bad word in my vocabulary, like with some people, unlike right men. They promise expenses, dare not mention a tax increase, and are always saluting some special interest, whether it is agriculture, the fishing road, or a unique travel agency. Why don't they look to the public? Men are elected here to care for the interests of the common people.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u32	Give me a new input into the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u33	This is exactly the input that matters, loyalty to fair, just and even taxes to keep our big words that the hospital needs more money, the schools need more money, the police need more money. How will we deal with this if the members of the Parliament are not prepared to accept the matter of taxes? Why are taxes poison in your bones? I don't understand. Taxies - the most competitive communities in the world - are the northern countries. There are no low taxes, but there is a powerful welfare system, both educational systems, etc. But it's gonna cost you. We finance this with our joint funds, and we should not start taking in another sector, whether it is tourism or any other branch. [[The president calls.]] I don't want to interfere with agriculture and fishing outs on the political scene, and now I'm afraid we're going to get part of the tourist service in my arms, and that's just a bad trend. We're not supposed to get involved in business only in general, and that's what I'm talking about here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u34	Mr. President. This is an interesting discussion of travel services. I think it's important to remember about travel services, if we're thinking about the people, that maybe we should try to use ourselves for an increased education in the tourism industry rather than taxing it. I think the situation today might have come sooner if we had gone to it. I agree, however, that we have frequently discussed it here in this conference hall that we need to find ways like, for example. We may be able to obtain more money there, but our country is very expensive. This has reduced our arrivals to the country as we know it. It is a question of whether we only want rich tourists if we are talking about how this article can carry more taxes. We also need to ask ourselves, " What kind of tourists do we want to see in our country? ' It's an old story, and new to a why. A senator was very pessimistic and pessimism not only to the last budget of this government but now. He thought I was wrong about land hospital numbers when he spoke of the increase. This is shown on page 22. 84 on the small tradition, it's about 5 billion, if the senator takes a look at it. I hope we get a review of this bill from the hospital and the rest of the staff up here in terms of the need for funding. I don't believe anything but that. A senator agrees with me that if we keep looking and we can keep up with what we say in the budget, we're adding up a combined consumption of 34%, 99 billion during this period, which I think must be pretty good, though we can always do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u35	Mr. President. For land hospital figures, it's on page. 133, with President's permission: ▪ First of all, contributions to hospital services are expected to rise by 2.5 billion dollars. which is mainly explained by the growing demand for services served as a result of population growth and the increasing life span of the nation. Hv. A senator is eager to receive reviews from the Land Hospital. I am also excited to have the Land Hospital review of this bill. If she'll be like me and what. They will point out that there is a shortage of extra money. That's what I'm talking about. A senator, then, ready to listen to the Land Hospital when he calls for more money? I remember that after all of our work at the budget board last year, there were almost no changes made after the financial bill came out. Despite this work at a budgetary board, whether it is about a financial bill, financial policy, or financial agenda, there are no changes. The Congress of this work proves again and again what kind of financial agency we are in charge of a minister. We get very fine reviews from various stakeholders, but they don't listen to anything. I hope that's gonna change. If the land hospital is calling for an increase in the money the senator says is supporting it, it just does. You can do it. It's only political will that controls it. Hv. A senator also speaks of Iceland being expensive. Why has Iceland become expensive to foreign tourists? There's only one reason. That's $1,000. This summer's real estate has never been so strong. Now it's falling, yielding. Iceland has become more expensive than Switzerland and Norway. It's about the crown. That's why I was a little surprised at a talk at the highest. Secretary of finance earlier, I understood it so that a constant currency would not be necessarily desirable. Yes, he's very desirable. It's hard enough to have a job life in Iceland, even though it doesn't add to the fact that you have to be some sort of currency expert. But the U.S. dollar is so swinging, so unstable a currency, that it is a cost for the economy, and especially for the nation. [[The president calls.]] There must be no way for a gangring to be free. When a gang crash happens, it always happens at the expense of the public. This results in higher inflation rates, higher interest rates, etc. Walking isn't a solution to a bad currency. [[The president calls.]] A solution to a bad currency is a new currency.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u36	Mr. President. Still, it seems that this is the case with a course of course. A senator and his party, and expected restoration, that there has not been a party in the community to join the European Union and to adopt another currency. Maybe it'll change. Maybe we have to do some other research, I don't know, but so far 80% of the people haven't been there. In terms of health - care contributions, I cannot help but believe it. A senator would agree that nearly 17 billion last year, i.e. Almost a 9% increase, and now nearly 13 billion is something that we can be truly happy with. I think we can always do better with all kinds of compromises. It is the nature of the institutions to request more money for the business. I think their assignments are so that they can always do better, and there is something they should do in order to take over their institutions and all of that. We are, of course, starting a major offense, which is to build the Hospital in the fall, as we have seen. We are amplifying a mental - health program, which has been called for in so - called society. A senator knows well. We strengthen the basic services, health care, which must lead to a decrease in the need for specialized hospital services. I hope that if we can make sure that the basic services are okay and people come in there and the service becomes costs free of charge, we will continue to reduce the rate of recovery in the medical system, that would indicate that we can reduce donations, at least. that they do not have to be as high as if the health care is not supported, as is suggested here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u37	Mr. President. Hv. One senator says: "We can always do better. All right, let's do better. It's an opportunity to do better. We have 900 billion dollars to play. You can do better than that. You can raise the personal discount by more than 500 bucks, huh? Senator. High school can be raised from year to year, but there is a decrease in the bill. The need for land hospitals can be met in order to keep the minimum in their view. They're talking about 5.4 billion in hospital service, and there's 2.5 billion here. If natural demands are met for funding in the wood, which I know is not all coldwater. A senator cares. This only shows that the influence and power and power of the left green are extremely small when it comes to financial matters. They are the independent group that governs this, which is a conservative class, status quote class, and has always been. It is not surprising, especially those who choose to work with them at this point. Hv. A senator only mentioned the combination. I remember pretty well that in the financial program we took care of for us, which is five years old, it's contracting for the next five years, actually a little bit, but it's contracting. The consumption is public, so over the next five years, the consumption becomes a lower percentage of land production than it is currently. This is very special, since public infrastructure has been announced and the nation is getting older, which requires increased medical resources. The number of senior citizens will double over the next 25 years. In the next 50 years, the population of Iceland will increase by 100,000, of which 75,000 will be older citizens. Today we cannot take care of these people. Today, people are dealing with the system, waiting for advice for their parents or themselves. How do you think it'll be 10, 15, 50 years from now? [[The president calls.]] There is reason to be pessimistic as long as lack of ambition is seen in the cabliber.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u38	Mr. President. The financial bill presented here for the 1st. There is a cost bill, and there is no confidentiality in the financial affairs of the state, unfortunately. The priorities of the bill are based on the development of economic growth in 2.5% of the following years. The leaders are unrealistic, and they can change rapidly. It's accepted in the bill, even though it's ignored. The bill is interesting, but a short chapter on page 20. Ninety-nine, which bears the heading: Economic uncertainty issues. That's where even the two of them come from. up to 40% of the 400 largest businesses in the country believe that employment conditions will get worse within the next six months and only 7% thinks they will be better. Despite warnings from different directions, there are still improvements in the statebed and the government spending on the highest levels. There is little or no concern for the future. The rest of your business is estimated to be about 1% of land production, which is not a high amount in view of the high economic rise. This should be in the best interests of the year so that there is no need to be a cut - down and a tax gain if things get worse. The labor movement is not positive for this bill, and it is not a good entry into the future chicken negotiations. What was supposed to be the troll of the government, such as an increase in personality discounts, child reforms, and growth reforms, is by no means the cup implied. This is similar to what sometimes happens when sales are sold at commercial stores in Iceland, prices are raised shortly before sale, and then dropped on sale, making the public think that they are making a good deal. In recent years, thousands of Icelanders have not received child development and growth improvements because of lack of impairment and degradation limits being held in place for years. As to the State's debt, I'd like to say that there is a positive trend toward a decline in debt, for there would be another failure in the positive conditions that have been inherited by the government. There is, however, no basis for the huge increase in expenses shown on the bill. But the Central Party would like to see further reductions. We need to prepare well for the businesses that are providing employment for the citizens of the country. The decrease is important to them and to the future dress interview. Here's what I want to do, especially on some of the elements that appear on the bill, and I think it's important, but it's the interest benefits, the children's benefits, the housing support, the carbon bills, and finally the state request. In view of this, there are some factors, such as health care, agriculture, education, transport, and other factors, such as health care, agriculture, education, and transportation. I will discuss the discussion, and the Ministers will be answered. However, I would have chosen and considered it normal to the highest degree. The secretary of finance would be present tomorrow with professional advisers. I came in for an counter-regulated raise. I'd like to add to the fact that the huge increases in housing prices over the past few years have eaten up the compensation, as we know and I mentioned. One of the primary growth factors is an increase in value of assets, but other factors also have an effect, such as increase in income and capital gain. As I mentioned earlier, growth improvements have decreased by more than 8 billion since 2010 and by the families entitled to growth reforms, by a decrease of 30 percent. There are very high numbers and show that the system is ruined. The distribution rules in the system need to be changed so that it serves those who need them most. The bottom line is this: At the same time taxing on landlords has greatly increased, proposals to landlords have been reduced. Only in terms of the limit of decline. I mentioned, and I have stressed that they will be changed. I can't see it's in the bill, so it's not even a student. Comparison increase, e.g. A net area of about 10%, as required, is like splashing water on the goose. It has to be said at the moment. Iceland has the largest increase in home prices worldwide, or 70% during the past five years, much of the money paid by the population. We live in a growing - up system that does not allow higher prices and interest costs. Everyone sees that such a system is useless. As a result, growth in interest of this bill is an illusion. On page 18. 99 of the bill says that changes in the tax system would reduce the income of the state budget by 3.5 billion dollars. Then it is decided to raise the personal discount, costing 1.7 billion. K. There's 1.8 billion left, and that's probably 1.6 billion more children's improvement, if I understand that correctly, but it's not clearly stated in the bill. Whether to increase the personal discount of 3.5 billion was considered. The question is, would it have benefited more people, including children, and perhaps been more targeted? We know that even fewer and fewer cases of child damages and of a question as to whether we will be in the same place or in the same environment shortly after the recovery. It cannot be seen that the government handles the housing problem. What needs to be done primarily is expanding housing. Tremendous increases in shelter prices in recent years are mainly due to lack of housing. A small supply means a higher price, as we know it. The number of markets is not higher. It must take action against the root of the problem, and sufficient housing is a lower price. I want to come in on the carbon bill for a short time. It contains large sums of money. The cost is estimated to be 5.9 billion in 2019, which is an increase of about 10%, yet this year the increase was down. The government is clearly in a campaign against the normal car owner who cannot afford to buy an electric vehicle. This is especially true of those living in the country, where the use of electric vehicles is very limited. Moreover, it should not be forgotten that electric cars are not all right for everyone at all, and it can be wondered if the increase will have the desired effect. Do we know for sure, or will the operation only increase the taxes on users who go to fossil fuels, such as oil and gasoline? Isn't this just another tax on family members? Has a minister had the tax checked on families in particular? It would be interesting to know. We also need to know how the rise in carbon costs affects the total household budget. There's information that needs to be known to me. I'm afraid this will be the worst blow for the earners who can't afford to get a new car that's gonna release less. Then the question is, Isn't it a matter of taxing the busiest group that seems to be in place somewhere else in the budget? It is always a government fund that encourages an increase in the index price of consumers. There are a number of remunerations in the bill. The pay of the car, which is nothing more than a possession tax, for example, will be paid. increase and do not forget that the price is set whether a car is being moved or not. Mr. President. I believe there is a lack of restraint in this financial bill when it comes to government institutions and governments, just for those who are to set a good example. The state council continues to expand on the independent party watch, and it is evident that socialism is contagious within the government. I would have preferred that we had put some of the money in trying to fix the growth system, so it benefited those who need it. In addition, the government itself has a high value in spending with all its helpers and 636 million at pay costs, an increase of about 175 million years from now. For example, an increase to a deliverer of 0.5 billion years, and it could continue for a long time. Discipline is a means of well - being, which is true of financial matters, such as other things in life. I don't know what to do with a bill. It's a journey with no thought.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u39	V.E.G. President. We're discussing a budget bill on the 1st. Hv. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's children gave a fine talk about a number of things during the ten minutes that we are set aside for a public talk. It seemed to me that a certain protest was being held at the end of the day. A senator, therefore, would like to establish several points and give a reason. A senator's chance to explain his point so that I can better understand and that we can better control that point. This relates to a part of their talk. A senator began his case, that it was a bill, that there was no confidentiality, and there was no basis for the real expansion that we see in the bill to build up the infrastructure. At the same time, it is certainly shown chitchatness, e.g. by returning the rest, 1% of GDP, and in full agreement with state financial policy, about 3.25% of total success, less than 900 billion. There has been a rapid debt payment of the past year, and it continues. Because of what? A senator came in on page 18. The importance of maintaining the economic benefits is greatly reviewed by 90 persons. At the same time, we keep the rhythm of increasing valuables, the economy that allows us to increase our expenses and go to the built - up structure offered and offered under budget 2018. I ask, "How can I? " A senator spoke of increasing expenses at the same time and not taking counsel in the light of this review? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u40	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson for the answer. I think there's a little bit of misunderstanding in what he said here. That's right, I've been focusing on business, and I think it's very important in financial matters. There are these uncertainty issues mentioned in the bill that I don't feel are looking at, and as I mentioned, it's an excellent piece of art, but short to which these uncertainties are considered. What I would have wanted to see was that government spendings had been reduced to various government institutions. We can mention such increases as those in northern society, an increase of 50 million. Secretary of State Department, an increase of 130 million. I know we're about to take lead in this field, but I'm asking, "Can't you do this in a less inexpensive way, use the employees of the Ministry, even those who are ambassadors, come home and get paid, etc.?"? I think there are many ways to save. The Council of Government, we see an increase of some 200 million there. EU educational, research and technological development cut-offs 800 million. K. increase. It's not what we Icelanders are getting out of that fund for example. It's in many parts of the government that I believe can be adjusted. It was considered uniting state institutions, etc.? I think it's quite a scene and that it's put aside for a rainy day. In view of the kind we live in, the remainder of the government may be higher and larger. [[The president calls.]] In many places, it is possible to manipulate in a reasonable way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u41	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The daughter of Birgir, the son of Þórarinsson, answers and for explaining his case. We can agree that government management, discipline, and firmness are important factors, with a baseline law on the public finances of the material. And it is also important to consider long - term sustainability as we look at increases in these structured expenses. Hv. A senator mentions several lawsuits, and it is true that we should look closely at all these 34 topics and then more than 100 lawsuits. The fact is, we are primarily putting more money into our major systems that are taking a lot of action. Of course, the highest topic groups in this regard are in the Ministry of Health, Social Services, and Insurance. This is where they put a lot of extra money on these topic areas. Health matters are very much involved in transport and education and culture. We've reached 80% of our expenses. We also need to consider that there has been a substantial increase in wages in the country. In just the last decade, pay has increased and most in the past four years, and the level of money has increased dramatically. Remuneration in this labor - consuming service has increased dramatically at the same time. We must also keep in mind when looking at the budget bill we address here, i.e. what we are really dealing with.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u42	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. In many ways, I agree with what he mentioned. I know from work at a budget board under his leadership that he's a sensible man when it comes to the law, but he's not the one who controls it. He's the government that lays the lines. There should have been more to take care of in my judgment. 636 million on pay expenses for the government each year is a substantial amount. Indeed, it is there to set a fine example in stewards. I ask: Is, for example, all these helpers needed? True, there are many factors that can be considered. Hv. A senator mentioned, for example. The health system. We've heard of this, and it's been in the media that there's a way to go to the expense of patients who are far more expensive than would have been possible to go home if the person had been given medical advice, for example. A company like the clinical. There are many ways of setting things right. Sometimes you feel that money is being saved and that you are throwing the dollar into government, unfortunately. I'd like to mention, too, that men have to look at the basics. How Is Evolution Ahead? She's very uncertain. In view of this, it is vital that we look at the bigger picture, try to make practical decisions, and be willing to cope with the bitter years of life. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u43	Mr. President. It's a pleasure to be here talking about the budget. I've always liked it a little bit, having been an appendage of a budget board since I was a deputy a few years ago and since I sat down at the council of 2013. It is characteristic of the discussion that listening is often limited, but it may be necessary to listen. Before the elections, we talked left green about the need to increase the donations we had to make for social projects in the last 40 to 50 billion years. Now we're about to double this at half of the time, because budget 2018 and the bill we're dealing with here puts together a total of 93 billion increases. A financial plan was met with considerable criticism, for some felt that it was not going far enough and wanted to see even more detailed distributions to various categories of subjects that were expected. Others thought it was too much to do. The same is likely to be said of this newly developed budget, as we have heard in the discussion. But we, who are concerned with this matter, feel that despite the increase in expenses, this is consistent with a moderate measure of government projects and the plans for essential structure in the whole community. There's been a lot of talk about the equation here. Engaging in the community is not only important to the worst but also to all of us. In equal communities, people live longer, our children go better at school, and people in general just feel better. We should also not forget that increasing equality involves a vast number of measures. This often seems to me to be forgotten in discussions about the budget, often caught in one or two teams. For example, there is equal access to health care, which is independent of the economy and the residence. It's a matter of justice for everyone. It's a biographer, and it's really unacceptable that we're not a pair of people by the North countries, but that's where we want to go. That is why we feel that the left green is important, that in these budgets there are fewer than 13 billion increase in health care. We've talked about something about the position of those who are lazy. In many respects, the situation is unacceptable. Of course, rising prices are always worst on those mentioned, and each time the pay in the country increases, a larger portion of the income of underpayers is taxed, but the effects on high-payers are less pronounced. This repeated trend in recent years has resulted in a higher tax burden on underpayers and much more than the tax burden on big - income workers. So, what can we say, one walk over everyone, the top tax step must rise according to the consumer prices instead of the pay number. The labor movement has been calling for a very long time. This step is to take here because we are attaching the boundaries of the upper level to the consumption indicator, according to the lower level. It gives more than one dollar to those who have said nothing of a wide tax raise, which, of course, puts more dollars in their poorer wallets than the poor. Of course, we should not forget that we have already taken certain steps. We have, for example. increase in income taxes and unemployment benefits, and we have also increased pay payments. This does not change the fact that we have people who are struggling with difficult situations. Children should not have to grow up in poverty. That is why we are raising child support to income - poor families and changing the limit of decline that ensures that support does not go up the entire income ladder but will benefit from income - rich groups and low intermediate groups, in accordance with the government's declaration of policy since February. We are also suggesting actions that are going to catch children at risk of having a problem by contributing funds for early intervention. We also add an increase of around 4 billion for microenergy pensioners, and we are going to try to work in harmony with suggestions coming from a group of social ministers involved in this subject. The same can be said of the aging group. Happily, most elderly people in Iceland have that at best, but we have to face the worse. We also contribute to housing, although many feel that more than in some other areas are involved, and with increased donations, we try to make more security. There are plenty of things to go over. The amount of time we give in 1st. Of course, we do not have much time. However, I must review the health issues that are one of the major measures below, which, as I entered the counter-regument earlier, begin working with a health policy that will be carried out in consultation with various parties. We are putting up a lot of money to promote health care as the first stop to reduce the temporary number of specialized hospital services. We have emphasized the importance of bringing in the much - called mental - health program that has been called after and by the highest degree. A health minister introduced here during the dawns of the suicide Day. There are 400 million in equal access to health care, regardless of the economy, by reducing the patient's payment intake. We began in the middle of a year to reduce payment on the dental expenses of disability and older citizens, and we are adding this so that it will be around a billion. This is a long time period of action that has not been updated for many years. When people say that they don't see left-hand prints in green, I'm not convinced that my independence partners agree there. I think there's a lot of prints in this bill that can be traced to us. Another huge case that was presented here during the days is a climate operation program. We are to be exemplary in this country. We have a variety of operations. It is a living document that will be updated as time goes on and as consultations with the various parties indicate the need to do so. We're resisting food waste, taking measures against plastic pollution. The person standing right here is sitting in a group of people who are due within a few weeks of action program to reduce the amount of plastic use we can use. We're going to recover wetlands, we're going to recover birch forests, etc. We're putting a considerable amount of money on the forestry industry. We will also promote innovation in climate, such as in so many other things, by providing funds for climate. We are also going to trust the infrastructure by caring for our nature through increased land healing. All of this is important, especially in the light of the intense wastes that nature has experienced as a result of a huge increase in tourism. Even if it has been summed up, it still increases compared with what has been before. I think we can be really happy about this. Of course, we can do better. The emphasis is on a certain aspect of understanding at any given time. We also contribute extra money to law enforcement. Although I think it might be better there, we're still making an increase, and we're going to buy helicopters. That is how much is to be taken care of. But, of course, as we've seen here, we'll never be able to make up for everybody, I don't think I'll live that time at least we can put in a bill that will make everybody happy. Of course, we're dealing with a community project, building a community, working community. I think it's a project that never ends. Even if we live in an exemplary community, a good society, it is still that we should always be able to do better at every turn. I think this is where we're taking a huge step in very many things, both on the last budget bill and on the same one, while we're filing for the lawsuits that have been called enormous after the need to add. I think we're supposed to be able to go into this winter with good labels and be a little bit off on this thing we're doing. [[The president calls.]] I didn't even mention the transport issues that are one of the major factors that now divide. this figure here, which is of great importance in the global economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u44	A respectable president. Some things. Yeah, I guess we don't put out a budget bill that everyone likes. So I feel that it is important to be reasonable in the criticism I give up. I'm going to start by asking a few questions about the estimated taxes, a 1% decrease in the lower income tax level or equivalent. It has been shown that the output should be equal to 1% but not 1% decrease in the lower income taxation level. The budget bill says, as well as a financial program, that the decline is to be used in four constant steps. Now, though, the decrease to 1.7 billion is now, and part of it is even if I understand correctly, the application of the higher income taxation level is defined. This is less than half of what would be necessary if it were to fall into four constant steps, to reach up to 14 billion in four steps. Finally, this will probably mean about 5 of you. K. an increase in personality discount, but we now take steps of 500 bucks. I don't think it's fair, but I don't think it's fair, and I'm just a little bit unfair if you're told you're going to turn down four steady steps, but it's done very little now, and that's why there's clearly a lot before the next election. That's not fair. I'd like to talk about child support. They are now being converted to a relatively high decline rate by intermediate income. I want to draw attention to the fact that there is a poverty trap. This means that the small increase in pay in this period means a substantial decrease in child strength. It can be a little hard to handle. I look forward to seeing further work on that point. In case of a moment. A senator could discuss only the problem of reforming systems that could lead to a certain poverty trap if it were accepted well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u45	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. As we have seen, we've heard at the highest level of publicity. Minister and I've also heard about the budget bill, about this 25,000, it's all playing, i.e. to divide this one percent down to four years, as the minister told us at the presentation, and then what we're doing now, i.e. The affidavit. The compositing of the reform and income tax system is being revised. It's about time we did. The amount of time we have here is an increase in child development, that's the personality discount that we have under here now, and it's also under that. I don't know if we can equal it exactly, but this is a combination of many activities that are being put in for those who are more efficient and for children's families. The increase in maternity pay is part of this, as we know, in order to support families, not perhaps a part of this 0.25% but part of supporting families. I couldn't quite figure out what to do with it. A senator wondered about the strength of birth. [[Up front.]] Yeah, about the loss of income, the criteria, where does it start? Yeah. There is something that we need to wonder about, whether we should change and change, so that those who get some things just for the sake of strength, not... That is probably what the senator is wondering about, and not, that it can be detracted. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u46	A respectable president. What I'm saying is, you know, it's changing the baby reforms in a way that quickly gets affected by the average income. People may be well-skilled, but if they increase slightly in wages, the child's compensation will be severely impaired, in a small range of income. Hv. A senator mentioned full funding on various parts of a talk earlier. Unfortunately, we don't know anything about this, for the cost estimate is missing in nearly all measures, e.g. ... witha climate-based operation programme. There we have a very nice package, a living document, and all that. We know that there are 6.8 billion involved, but we do not know how the funds are divided and if that is really enough because it is not a cost estimate and a benefit analysis on the effects of the action. Thus, we cannot if the neck sets the priority, starting with what is best, or starting with what will bring the best things to the future if something starts slowly, e.g. as if by increasing forestry, it has to start early in order to bring something to the future. I'm a little sad that as good as the action is and as happy as I am with the Environment Minister that it's a living document and it's about to add information about the costs and how this affects emissions, we're still making decisions at a panel on financing action without really knowing how they're involved. As far as the council is concerned, I don't think it's fair to just say, "Here's 30 operations, give us a lot of money.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u47	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. It's just about the second thing as easily as possible. One senator mentioned: I agree that there are many things that we need to try to do better, see how much it costs, and try to measure the factors. I talked about a full funding on a mental - health program. A mental - health program was adopted during the last assembly, which marked what the operation cost. Of course, we can talk about the financial resources that we have to do about as many plans as possible. I'm not sure we can do that to all things, but we can get to it. That's what we're supposed to do. As mentioned in the case of the highest. A minister agrees with us in what has criticized us; this is one of the things we are always trying to put on and do better. I agree that we need to try to do more and ask the Ministry for answers to that work even more than we have been before. You know, about the baby settlements. I understand that this is not true of those whom a senator mentioned, since it applies primarily to those who are less earnable. Other than that, the foundation remains unchanged. At least I get that information. This, however, is one of the things we can look more closely at our work that lies ahead of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u48	Mr. President. I'd like to hang out for a second on child support. I've seen a lot of speeches since then. A senator who, as well as her party, has been calling for increased money to benefit children. Now it's getting a little extra on child support, and, of course, you're celebrating every cent on this very important welfare option of child care. I know why. A senator agrees with me in this regard. On the other hand, I was wondering. As it is today, child reforms begin to decline far below the minimum wage. When a person has 242 you. K. During a month, they begin to be impaired. It's supposed to be different. We've made two recommendations at a council, just a few months ago, that child damage should not be impaired under the minimum rate. Now it's taking that step. It is a cause for rejoicing. But I just want to get food or an opinion. A senator: What changed in those months? Why did he go down? A senator of our proposal a few months ago, that child support should not be restricted by the minimum wage and is now ready for such a change now several months later? Besides, I'd like to ask. The bill has shown an increase in the proportion of declines. The decrease rate is being increased in people with 460 you. K. every month or more. Today the figures were about to come up with a median wage, a Thai salary, in Iceland there are 618 levels. K., so we're seeing that people who are considerably below the average or below the average number of cards fall into failure. Now offered to the left green, people are experiencing even greater impairments, as the decrease ratios are hardened. Of course it does. A senator, or government, has the opportunity to pinch only a child's family at the same time that is put into it. I'd like to ask, "Why does it say why? " A senator for increasing the decrease rate in people under averages?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u49	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. Regarding the political question why we made minor proposals a few months ago, we are now discussing a new financial bill that has been arranged for these funds to be done. It had not been done on our last bill at the time. Like what? A senator knows that the Consequences were suggested for a financial gain that was not all agreed on, etc. Thus, at any given time, we need to weigh and weigh the suggestions we are dealing with. After a conversation, after passing through the numerically fundamentals we have here, we're in the government and who agree that there's a possibility of doing this. We are very happy about that. I hear and I'm glad to hear it. A senator would agree with that view and that it is something he has, naturally, also suggested that we do. Of course, this is a 16% increase. This definition of the budget of the decline is part of it. I'm happy about that. For numbers that have appeared today, it's not something I can express myself about. I've been sitting in the audience since the discussion began, so I haven't been able to look at new numbers that have been published. I don't want to take it for granted that I'm going through such a downhill, just like that. A senator mentioned earlier. Hv. A senator entered a speech earlier that he was having a pessimism, this wouldn't be a good bill. This is the nature of the matter according to his theme. I don't agree with that. I think the bill is very good. But as I have always said and finished my talk earlier, it is always necessary to keep making a good society better. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u50	Mr. President. The new figures on the average wage in Iceland today are not particularly surprising. It's been about 600 of you. K. It's just odd to have children's compensations that are being damaged and that they're hardening people who don't get their averages. I think it's a special politics. It's not like we're putting a lot of stuff on baby benefits. About 1% of the government's earnings goes to child support, that's all. I feel neglected about the welfare system. Same with interest improvements. They would go to 4 billion in 2018, but they will only be 3. Now it's time to go up to 3.4. It's not in the nose of a cat, unfortunately. We'll see that half of it is also lost from the growth reform system. It has rarely been so expensive to be a young person at this housing market. All members of Congress know that. That is why the State has responsibilities. It will not put anything next if we add a million dollars to child reforms and compensations. Everyone in this room knows that. I'm always trying to sharpen my colleagues, especially in the left green, to get this through. I know it's a left-green policy to add child support and growth improvements. Now's your chance. You have the prime minister. I'd like to impress you on your behalf. I just want to come to high school, where I know why. A senator is interested in education. I find it odd that there's a direct drop in the middle of the year. Of course, we know that high school has been reduced, but it had already been promised that high school would keep the money that was spent because of the shortitude. There should be nothing new. At the same time, education is also being promoted, especially at high school. I don't see it. Where is the big offense when we reduce money from year to year to high school? I'd like to review it when high school officials in Iceland came to the budget committee last year, and they said they had reached the limit of their endurance. It's not anything that would put a Kingdom box on its side by meeting such fundamental factors in our welfare system, whether it's the improving system or the education system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u51	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I completely agree that this isn't going to put anything on my side. However, if we wanted to do everything we want to do, that is a very good thing to do. We are also in a government community where certain things need to be negotiated. We'd have to, too, if we were in a government partnership with the United States, that's for sure. I think we're reaching a conclusion that has much left over and is really happy about it. In terms of education, there is an ideal opportunity tomorrow to discuss it with the Ministry of Education and the Ministers there. V.E.G. A minister came into it with the last budget where she claimed it, and has not been alone, that in terms of the OECD criteria we have wanted to guide us, the combination is not as relevant as it needs to be. Nevertheless, we aim to be among the best schools in the world, and I think we should. Expenditures per student in high school increase by 7% between years. It's a question of whether it's enough, I don't know. I guess we'll get the school's reviews on that. As I said, the nature of the institutions is to request an excess of money. The college has certainly had too little money in many recent years, that is what we agree with. Change in school and three - year - old school, and all of that has resulted in a disturbance, but the changes are running out and all schools have to get right in it. It will be interesting to see if the change in budget needs to be different from what it has been. I have always spoken on behalf of the schools and will continue to do so on a financial committee, and I listen.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u52	A respectable president. Finally, after three years, a financial bill will receive a serious political treatment. The last two budgeted bills have been carried out in hand racing at the council with related problems in financing. A financial bill for 2017 was submitted in December 2016 after the season ended abruptly because of the lights on Iceland's property in the tax industry. That financial bill was based on the financial plan of the former government and was far from in harmony with the plan. It is remarkable, though, that financial bill, even though it has been proposed by a government rather than by a local government, came into agreement for financial gain. A new government then established a new financial program and was prepared to provide the budget for 2018 when that regime exploded because of confidentiality, when the bright future broke down because certain Ministers were allowed access to information on the subject. Then came a new budget for the current government in mid - December. Legal bill for December 2nd in a row to address the budget of the previous government. This, then, is the first time that the budget will be submitted by a government that also composed a valid financial program. However, we will never know what will happen in the months ahead, as our previous experience may teach us. But what are these laws about money? According to the Constitution and the law, they provide the budgets that the government has from feeding the budget. The budget shows the cost of action that the government intends to take in order to achieve its goals. It so happens that one of the measures taken by the government is to provide a progress report to the government on how it works to fulfill the government covenant. This operation would cost money, otherwise it would probably not be in the budget bill, but given the implementation of this procedure in the bill, no one else will be allowed to see this report. In this way, the government is spending public funds to make a report so that they can see how they are carrying out the laws of government made by themselves. If such a report is to be spent in public money, more should be allowed to see the report. If they were going to show this report to everyone, at least it's not on the bill. If so, I simply urge the government to show the rest of us how they feel about meeting the Constitution, otherwise they can only use their own money, not public funds, to create this report. The money they get from sponsors, not the money they get from the public money. In view of financial matters, there is a need to keep in mind that the government's policy is set up in the financial programme. There are goals and actions. The cost should be set out, preferably as a benefit analysis, during each operation that the government is going to perform. In the current financial program, there are no such costs and benefits and therefore it is very difficult for the government to explain why it needs all this money. If the government claims to ensure an active involvement in NATO, so that there is always credible and visible defenses, with the permission of a president, as stated in the budget bill, the government needs to provide a planned cost for that operation. It's as simple as that. There's nothing better than the plan in this regard. There is no expense analysis on the government's actions. There's no way to put together why the government needs all these billions of dollars it's asking for the council on this bill for financial support. What's the government asking for? On page 18. 135 is an overview of changes in expenses. It shows that there are 27 billion old commitments that cannot be avoided. Dr Fells are down to 5.5 billion because temporary projects are running out. Expenditures then decrease by 2.6 billion because of better efficiency or some kind of maintenance, and new and additional contributions are being made in the bill of 19.5 billion. There is a collection of donations for transport of 5.5 billion, 4 billion in social security changes, 2.3 billion in unemployment improvements, a number of health projects of 4 billion, and the environment of 1.3 billion. This general dislocation is not at all good enough. The cost of government policy must be made clear in the case of the government. This is how the benefits can be considered. In fact, when economic and financial schemes are examined, some of their goals have even changed, and many measures from financial programs are just gone and others are back into the budget. This is not exactly an example of the firmness and stability to be promised a baseline in public finances. We are to act in a way that, under government laws on government finances, is set out in a financial program. The Budget Plan states that within which the government should submit financial laws. If she wants to change her goals and actions, she will do so in the next financial programme. Admittedly, it can happen that you're doing well, some operation may just be fulfilled, have finished it. Then it doesn't have to be kept up, it doesn't have to be asked for an extra deposit, it's fine if it comes out, but it doesn't. One thing is interesting in this regard. When the cost analysis is missing and in view of the history we have witnessed in the council regarding the handling of budgets, it is not possible to suggest a decrease in budget because there is no cost to analysis of the government or the activities of the Commission. Then the council will not be able to look at it; yes, these are all the projects you planned, if we have to harden only the shoulders, we could skip these and these assignments or delay them a little bit. That's, I don't think, I don't think there's any particular decrease in the budget, at least not in the targeted way of government policy. During last night's debate with Prime Minister, the secretary of finance said that we have the best economic situation we have ever had. The problem is, it's not about something we did. The reason is still because of the economic whales this time in the likeness of tourists, previously it was e.g. Shellac, macrogol and aluminium. We live in such a specific whale - making economy, in which we are in a stable golden grass rather than actually working for some kind of structure. What happened, e.g. about the fourth support? Where is the innovation of the budget and budget? We are constantly in the Icelandic economy of following the next vaccine. Today, we are experiencing certain tourist outbreaks, an explosion of a number of tourists to the country. That's why we have such a good economy, one of the reasons. There is no particular operation that any government has made in order to increase the number of tourists in this way. It was certainly a presentation of Inspired by Iceland, etc. But it was not in itself the goal of achieving this new economy that tourism has become. It was not a goal to do so. It just happened. There are other things that are missing in the budget and in the general information. It is a great deal of information on what to do for the others and for these income groups. How the situation is, whether we are going in the direction of the equation, whether in the income or in the property, or not. What interests me very much is that although it is true that we are in a good place about the power of money, the distribution is never spoken of in any special way. How buy-power increase is working for different income groups. This information is not that easy to find, and can hardly be found for e.g. ... ofHabourStates. I can't go and see: the lowest of the five was great. I just can't see it. You can see averages. They do not help us as clearly indicated by the differences between the averages and the medians, and it was shown in the previous financial minister's response, e.g. an increase in tax-free intervals would translate into 300 ounces. K. This shows how huge a lot of people earn little money, why the median revenues are torn down from the average income by about 100 of you. K. or so. This is information that really matters to us. That we have the distribution of income between different groups of people in the country when we are making a decision about something like financial matters. Unfortunately, there are only ten minutes to talk about this, and I have a few more pages, but unfortunately, the discussion is in some form of contract. We senators can discuss the following, and hopefully I'll come up with more things than these discussions, as fine as they are, to get all ministers in such talk as they'll be tomorrow, but I think that I also need a little more time for spokemen and financial ministers, as he said in his opening speech to deliver the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u53	A respectable president. I just want to stop at one point in my speech. A senator with practical conditions in his state, a strong economic standing. It's already a dog. A senator says that it is largely due to the growth of tourists who are wrong in their own eyes that it is a kind of whale handler and lucky, just like when the mackerel swims into the weekend. That's where I have to disagree. Although it is true that after arriving in the country, we are very dependent on the demand, there are quite a number of factors that work together. We are at the same time, and the tourism service has increased demand for other aspects of the economy that are in order. For decades, we've managed how we're going to manage the fishing system, that's all right. It produces valuable things that help during the years that followed. The same is true by industrial efficiency and development. It didn't just happen somehow, and it wasn't like a mackerel that swam into the weekend. The part, the support that's fine, and it earns enormous valuables in exporting incomes for national preparation - this did not happen somehow. There are decisions made, including Here, which is behind it. When it's time for travel, I have to mention some factors. First, for decades we have been in a continuous market campaign. We went into a special marketing campaign after the Eyjafjörður eruptions, which we do not know exactly what has been returned, and we have been planning to get more tourists to the country. I must also say to our currency that it has an independent financial policy, a currency left in a recession, made the country cheaper, and opened the door for tourists, strengthened the export branches. This did not happen automatically. The decision of the party was to have its own currency, and we are working on it here whether it's good or not. And then, finally, I have to mention the construction of all the individuals, the entire population that has held, for example. For decades, Icelanders, the people who have built the hotel rooms, opened up a prayer day all over the country and opportunities, an experience for tourists. This did not happen automatically.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u54	A respectable president. True, I mentioned some of the procedures that were taken to appeal to tourists, but the great multitude did not provide for them. If there were any programmes to go in this direction or that there were living frames like a climate action program where we were constantly working - none of those plans provided for this huge growth in tourism. Hence, on this basis it is a certain whale handler. The growth grew far beyond what we anticipated. In terms of his currency, as much as he helped in this regard, he was naturally badly affected by other factors. I was, for example. A student from abroad at that time. Suddenly, I was twice as rich in Icelandic scores for my student loans. I had to pay a lot more taxes, but we had to pay a lot more taxes when we lived outside because we had to add extra loans to afford to live there. So the currency is sometimes a blessing and sometimes a curse. It goes up and down. That's the problem I'm trying to describe. Perhaps we can continue to use the crown but go to some sort of tie, as Denmark does. Maybe it's a completely new currency. I'm not gonna pretend to be an expert on it and tell you where to go. I'm just saying that the swings are the problem. What is good for some, when a dollar swings up or down, is bad for others at the same time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u55	A respectable president. I just want to get involved in this point because I've come across this statement a few times in the past where people say, "We're always so lucky." We're always getting the winnings, Icelanders. I think it's incredibly simple on the situation. It all works together. The situation wouldn't be so good just because of the tourism. The economy needs to be treated with one another. The economy has become more varied and is much stronger. I think we need to keep in mind the overall context of things. On the other hand, it is quite right. A senator said that we did not anticipate this large growth. I think it's clear to everyone, like that. that this large expansion of the Wow work, which apparently costs a lot of money they're trying to get now, has had a lot to say. There was no administrative decision behind it. However, we have had wood, e.g. in Keflavík and we have had firms like Isavia, public companies, who have had the ability and ability to build up the air base in line with increasing demand. In that respect, we have been ready. No matter how we view this, as some sort of coincidence, or whether we have simply created the general external circumstances, and gradually been contributing to Iceland as an ideal tourist resort, at least one thing is certain; the economy as it is with a strong tourism in the country is a much stronger economy. It is more varied, it can cope better, and it makes greater value. Land production has never been greater than today. That's why I say today that we've never been strong.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u56	A respectable president. The situation today in travel - certainly the doors were large enough to be open to all tourists, but we had to invite them into the empty hall floor. There was no dining - room table or hardly a kitchen to offer them the scrawls they could find here. It's certainly an experience and a great experience for some to try nature as it looks, but it's also caused a huge panic not to be ready when people really run around on their shoes, not necessarily dirty, that they're seen on nature with us. You can tell by driving outside the road, you can see from a variety of natural bulbs along the southern country just to the east when people come to see the gorges and other things. It is an intense appeal, and it has gone so far as to say that some areas are simply ruined by this appeal. And that's part of our failure to plan, we're not ready to take over these tourists, even though the doors are large enough and open because we didn't expect so many people. If we had expected so many, we would have set up chairs so that people could sit on them and enjoy nature without ruining it at the same time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u57	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a bill for the budget of the 2019 year. I want to begin with the last Council, 148th legislature, which was special for various reasons and held under unusual circumstances. The time for budget management for the 2018 financial year was reduced to the council, at the same time being before the Supreme Court. A government to establish the rules laid down in a government covenant. I'd like to mean that at the brief point of leading the way, we can say, and take the first steps in the infrastructure and structure of the basic systems of society that are declared in a government contract. At the same time, the responsible, sensible course is not to continue to keep on the course of paying off debt, reducing the burden of interest, and extending space for further building up. Following the release of funding, financial policy was adopted in March. In June of this year, the Council adopted a national budget for the next five years, in 2019◯023, which contains the precise implementation of policy measures at the highest level. Governments. This took place at a very short time, but the bill we discuss, the budget bill for 2019, rests on a fixed policy and financial program. This is vital, and it is the longest of our budgets in terms of public financial matters. It is in my mind, if we look at the bill, a positive image of improved environmental management and implementation of the state affairs, and at the same time, the objective of the government laws on public finance is to link the coverage of policy management and the aims of law on increased discipline, firmness, stability, that it will be achieved and strengthened the survival of the Council for policy-making and policy aims in the state's budget. I want to know why. In August, a prime committee arranged for a meeting of the experiences that are already under way for public financial legislation and called for. ... bya memooutoftheboy. The budget for progress from the 2015 Act. It is my hope that the program will have further discussions about the situation and further discussion as we discuss the revised budget. The budget is set up and continued on the front of the infrastructure, the intensive building of basic health, transportation and education systems, and the growth of expenses as understanding and aim to maintain the high economic benefits achieved in recent losses, especially in order to preserve the high level of money gains achieved by reasonable management. A positive source of 29 billion is thus proposed and in accordance with a policy of about 1% of GDP. This is about 3.25% of the total cost rate. We need to keep in mind that economic growth, long economic growth, stability, rapid debt subsidies, and, in view of growth reductions in interest of years, allows us to make room for such necessary initiatives in building up infrastructure and to increase the absolute value of spending to important causes and issues. Thus, the State Fund has been strengthened in this way and the development of resistance has increased. This is a high level of employment, pay has increased largely in every group of society. In historical context, there is a low inflation and a constant price structure for four consecutive years that has greatly improved the level of buying and thus greatly improved the standard of living. The budget and the bill we discuss reflect the position, but at the same time it is clear that in order for us to share, through our large cohesion systems, we will enjoy this benefit to the future, we must be careful to continue paying off debts and above all to protect and protect the gain of money and make sure that the effects of government's financial resources are not economic stability. For one thing, there is emphasis on returning the rest and paying on debt. Whether it is in a public or public labour market, economic context should be considered and therefore not to be solved in a single financial capacity, with financial resources, income schemes and economic grounds for a single year. However, there are many indications in the budget that work market issues are being met and that social stability is being maintained. There we are looking at the introductions and support of the general standard of living and the equation. Standards of living in Iceland are good for most standards, equal to those of the United States. That's a lot of money and a high level of employment. There are also other factors that can have a profound impact on the quality of life, such as building real estate prices, growth and other quality of life, and space for leisure, job pressures, etc. This is very evident in Zöegi's essay carried out by the Ministry of Presidency on the economic status of collective agreements and on the basis of national and national cohesion. It is and recognized that the current level of good education needs to be better returned to low income and middle income groups. In the bill, we watch the sync between the upper tax level and the personal discount on the indexing number. It is a longer term operation that does not result in a later shift or a miscalculation of the tax between income groups. There have already been things to trust social stability and to add weights to the scales of collective agreements. Already there have been increased payments in maternity and unemployment insurance and pay payments, which can be guaranteed. lack of pay. Therefore, this bill is linked to an increase in child improvements and the personal discount over a legal increase and a decrease in insurance costs by 0.25%. All of this is in the interest of social stability and improved lifestyles. The simple combination of revenues and reform systems and 4 billion is continuing to work on system change and social security to improve the cost of disability. Health matters are high in the bill with higher donations for health care, mental - health care, nursing care, and the construction of the Land Hospital, which is the most important factor in raising expenses. In order to further reduce the patient's payment, 500 million are spent on reducing the cost of older ones and disability, and 400 million are being added. The bill suggests extra housing support. This was shown in the state financial programme, which I mentioned earlier, is expected to reduce the rate of less than 1 percentage in the lower level of income tax in the period and this will be done in the interaction of income tax and reform systems and will result in final implementation of the agreement of the government with the labour market partners. The debate over the government spending has been a little over or under. It can be said that over the past years, since 2013, with an actual increase of 1.7%, the duration of resistance was increased and that there was an actual value each year to this bill we deal with 5.6% actual increases in the framework of expenses. A collection of about 40% is real. V.E.G. A financial and economic minister did well that, based on projections on improvement in economic growth, it is not expected to be able to maintain the same amount of cost in the coming years. It is important to look at the sustainable state of the state and that we at the council and why. The legal committee, now that the bill is being discussed in the Committee, will discuss this with the implementation of budgets and reevaluation of expenses required for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u58	A respectable president. Ten minutes of flying a little fast. I wanted to have a word about it. A senator, chairman of a legal committee, then the work of the legal committee, followed by the Congress Work Programme. In turn, when the Ministry comes, the work plan of the budget is expected to arrive, and this is some time in November, but according to the Council's Committee on 2rd. of the budget bill starting November 13th. If I haven't read something wrong, visitors are not yet finished with the Council Work Programme and plan for the legal committee's work programme. Still, all Fridays are full of committee work to receive visitors. Isn't the plan a little gone out of the window just yet? I also wanted to wonder with what I was doing. A member of the Parliament, whether it would be reasonable for the Commission to be informed about the costs of the government's various actions in order to know exactly whether the cost of the cost is correct and also to be able to look to their standards of financing in order to regret whether the evaluation was right or not to avoid the classics in strategy. The more important it is to prevent them from asking too much money to be proud of it afterwards, so I don't even mention the importance of that information to the Minister's annual reports, as it's really a certain insult to the budget, I would say, I don't want to tell you how much insult it is, so there's no need to read anything in it, when the government comes and says, "Hey, I'm going to get a billion of you guys to do something, maybe in climate action and stuff like that, and the funds just sign up and say, "All right here, is a billion." Do something. We cannot work in that way, so the laws on public financial matters are not ours, that is not our goal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u59	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir To answer, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. Thank you very much. A president for taking into consideration the fact that I was slightly ahead of time. You're absolutely right. paritaprevir Björn Gunnarsson Leví bear over ten minutes is quick, especially when the subject is extensive and much involved. You're right. A senator came up with regard to the work programme we have been trying to establish. Despite filling all Fridays until 2nd. and have much more time than we talked about budgeting 2018 when we just spent 24 hours on the day, it was quite simple, it is absolutely true that it is very close to 2nd. When we give sources a chance to install the committee and the commission would be able to have the conversation so essential for the diagnosis of the bill. You're absolutely right. I know we what we're doing. A senator and the committee will together try to adjust the plan as we can within this time frame. We were not afraid to be on the Committee for a discussion on the bill 2018 to make good use of the day, so that is a matter of fact, despite our tendency to fill out in time. There are theories about what would be a pleasure to discuss here, but that's all I'm going to do. About the expense food, I know what to do. A senator observed this discussion at the highest level. Minister, I'd like to speak to you later.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u60	A respectable president. It's just for form, so he can move on.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u61	V.E.G. President. I didn't have much time now to think about the answer later, but I'm doing my best. I agree with what. A senator with the cost of lunch. I know that these factors are being developed to strengthen and improve, and that's - I took steps back in my speech, this importance in the future in connection with sustainable budgets and the interest we talk about, this reevaluation of expenses, and looking at the rhythm of the treasure creation. We're building up and strengthening the law on government funds this policy frame, and at the same time, it's absolutely necessary to put money in the actions that we get into the bill, I'll take it from the top. Minister here, when we discuss the unique matter and we ministers with a heavy responsibility in this legal structure of public funds, taking this discussion with the Ministers. Of course, the committee will have to follow this very closely. Now we're getting to the point where we're getting reports from every minister, and we've got the budget done at hand. The budget board. This is actually a very exciting subject for the committee to consider, together with, of course, these factors. This is one part of our getting numbers on this operation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u62	Mr. President. In the short period of time, only killing in a single place can be done. I'll do it here, but I'd like to say first, that although I can't fully support the priorities of the bill and the emphasis on the income and remuneration, I can well declare support to the policy which aims to make the state's budget sustainable. Selfishly, in the sense that the debt of state funds is reduced and the debt of pension is made to public employees. A good position of government funds in the leading of the collapse made our difficult situation more bearable and is actually difficult to think about if the state's debt had been in a far different and inferior way than it was then. Mr. President. I've allowed me to make a subject here at the General Assembly and a wide debt of insurance, especially as if it has to do with the homes and employment of the people of the country. The design of this system is by means of a joint, called housing, and it has been shown in response to a financial minister's request from the person here that this housing has gone up tremendously in recent years. The homes of citizens and businesses are not the only people in this country who are interested in how this index is combined. The treasure also has great interests. In answer to a minister's response, five years ago the country's general price change would have brought a total of $15 billion in apartment loans, but the housing team alone would see 118 billion. The financial cost of living in this system is evident naturally. It is now, as has often been discussed, that this price insurance is intended to compensate for inflation, i.e. loss of money that is an economic phenomenon. But there's something else up here. Here's a feature that only attracts the rest of the law and even the rest of the code. Depending on the decisions made and what policy are set at the Councilhouse at the Tiranium on transport and other factors. So here we have an arrangement that has resulted not only in the enormous burdens of homes and employment companies but also in the pursuit of government funds. I'll allow me to hope that Ministers will consider this when they consider future policies and the arrangements of insurance. Secondly, Mr. President, I'd like to proceed with the implementation of the bill using two accounting standards. This is the so-called IPSAS standard for public financial and GFS reporting status. These locations, which are discussed in the context of the on page 24. 122 budget and forward, have different purposes, but by allowing them to say, they must be counted as anything, especially for readers who have not adopted the fine shades of accounting and reexamination, to study the subject of the bill which is the natural fundamental policy of the government, when going between these standards as a result of what they do, and why is available in the format and subject of each subject on the bill. I realize, Mr. President, that the application of these standards is under the civil law. But I allow myself to think about it, and I would be interested in getting the attitude of others here. Councilmen and especially the highest attitude. Minister to this point, also in the light of the today's transparency requirement. Mr. President. On this occasion, I feel that it is inevitable to give up the reserve briefly. Earlier this year, plans were presented for the use of a part of it, almost half, to be used for road construction. Severe comments were made on the part of the group. what is presented here on various occasions, including meeting with the branch office where the minister had arrived and in the council, although the subject, was making more of a donation to the road, would in itself be urgent and necessary. However, the issue was about whether the criteria were met. the law on public financial matters, including the requirement for the unforeseeable motive for spending. By permission of the president, a magazine entitled notes, Dates. May 16, 2018, material for the discovery of financial and economic ministers with a financial committee in connection with the government's declaration of 4 billion additional donations for road work in 2018. It is logical to conclude that the funds will depend on the reserves of reserves. So the plans seemed to be great with the use of a reserve for this purpose and to be met by law on public finances for this use of capital. Then, as interesting as it would be to get an explanation, what has led them to change from these plans as much as they seemed to be in the wrongs of their time. We're talking mid May. I'm going to allow you to bring this out here, a respectable president. I want to go to a carbon charge next time. For a discussion of this matter, see page 12. 113 on the budget bill. It shows that rising carbon charge is expected to be about 10% to start 2019 in order to promote carbon dioxide emissions in the atmosphere. Now it is so, Mr. President, that I have allowed myself to investigate with inquiries and have received an answer from the Environment and Resource Minister who is the head of this suit-to-be in response. 1352 from the previous legislation to assess the exact results of the cost, measured in less emissions than would have been paid, according to the President's permission. It's hard to accurately evaluate. It wasn't asked about accurate food, just how much. So here it is, in fact, allow me to interpret this answer, that people have no idea how much carbon costs have subsidized the emissions of greenhouse gases in this country since the cost was determined. When asked how much carbon money has reduced the use of vehicles each year since the price was submitted, the same is said, with the permission of the president: Again, there was no question about accurate numbers, that was a general question. So people have no idea. There is a policy of government that humans have no idea of what the result is. Mr. President. According to one estimate, the income of the state's budget will increase by 550 billion. K. and that effect on the index of consumer prices is estimated to be 0.05% for increase. I hope I have an opportunity to discuss these figures, because they have a lot of significance in our community.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u63	A respectable president. First, only with regard to the accounts. There is no clear indication that when the presentation is somewhat different from that of the GFS or IPSAS standard, it can therefore remember considerably. We have for years, in conversations both with food companies and even with parties such as OECD and more of those international institutions, criticized for the introduction always at the GFS standard or where the economic effects of public finance are not well-detected. In order to make public financial figures more comparable than, of course, and perhaps above all, in order to view the economic impact of public funds on the basis of this proposal, we decided to do this in the implementation of the law of public finance. I think we can say exactly as we do today that we didn't fully realize how much work this called for in the administration system, especially in the financial and economic services and the institutions we've had to rely on to do this. The time will soon come, and perhaps the time will come when we will consider the benefits of doing so. For these roads, the plans are completely unchanged. However, as these expenditures persist, they will be able to go to the fund. [[The president calls.]] I guess I don't have time to go any further.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u64	Mr. President. I thank the Secretary for the counter-sponsored. I think it must be about making a good deal to put the budget on the standards of public funds, but that economic analysis that might be followed or otherwise would be done on the basis of the GFS standard of the so-called and thus expected to save a lot of work. I must admit, Mr. President, that I was a little surprised to hear that it's like the highest. A minister still assumes to use funds from the reserve for these projects. I thought I understood it so that there had been a fall from the plans and that the requested implementation would be determined as material, that the right thing was in the right order, in the budget, or in the financial program. However, a minister may be able to clarify that point more clearly. I see I have a little time. I'm going to allow myself to use it to draw attention to the fact that the income of the carbon bill that is set out in the budget on page 20. 113, 550 million. At least, the 0.05 increase in the rate of pay will require a rough schedule of up to 1 billion in the increase in the value of house loans. So that's 500 million. In the state's budget, but an increase in apartment loans is up to 1 billion. To that end, homes are completely defenseless. Money agencies are receiving heavenly gifts, obtain demands at homes of up to 1 billion. The demands are legal, all eaten by the officials, and the entire legal system is responsible for their demands. So, allow me to ask you, what counter measures are the Minister's plans to take to protect the homes from the effects of the carbon tax? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u65	A respectable president. So we have this standard, and it's the IPSAS standard that might be more appropriate to evaluate the financial status and survival of the operators while the GFS has the ability to show more economic effect. Regarding the road, it was actually discussed at the time if it was really so that they were simply going to make some amount of transport reserve. I thought I realized that it can't really work that way in itself. It was the evaluation of the government that the scope of necessary, unexpected extra maintenance projects and, after events, other projects that we would have to attack and be a good investment to attack sensitivity up to 4 billion. This would then be evident according to what action would work out if all of it was going to work out of the reserve in the current year. That of not doing so will be in the grip of money for the future. I believe that the overall impact of the carbon price on prices mentioned in the past is very limited and does not require extra precautionary measures. However, the reasonable and reasonable question is, How are we going to contribute to this change or get this effect in the energy cycle? It should be easy to draw up numbers on what comes into play from more fuel - efficient or environmental cars. There's evidence of the results we're achieving. But I have also said in our discussion that we are totally dependent on technology progress over the real results in this area. You'll only be knocked down when you see the news today that the volcanoes today even unannounced by the carbon dioxide pollution we're trying to prevent. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u66	V.E.G. President. I thank the Minister for the answers. There are various factors that we are not aware of. I think it would be very useful to have the budget set out in one standard, so anyone who wanted to know it would have a way of identifying the government's policies on the important issue of government budget. I reiterate that I am a bit thinking of a minister's words on the provision of road affairs, as well as the necessary and fines that such projects are truly, from a reserve. The main subject in the discussions and presentation that occurred was one of four or five conditions set under official financial law, in Article 24. If you remember, the requirement for a provision from the reserve is that it is unpredictable, unforeseen expenses. We know what we've been through that bad road doesn't get better out of winter, but there's nothing unpredictable about it. There's a lot of doubt that this requirement of the law is met, and I think all of us here realize that, of course, the right treatment is to assume such expenditures in financial or financial programmes as you do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u67	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For an excellent speech, the Ólafur of Ísleifsson. Last year, I would like to enter that part of my talk. A senator who turns the index number on his quarters. Hv. A candidate in general has been very concerned with growth and credit rates, especially with the prices and benefits of those who owe and who have the means to finance housing. A recent review of money policy reports that it is advisable to review at least the calculation of the housing team. We agreed at the General Assembly on our decision to go to such work and assess in the economic context of its effect. Then Gylfi Zoëgi's excellent essay has been published in connection with a collective agreement, where he says and I refer, by the permission of a president, that it is important that the calculation of the index price for consumption be understandable when it is used for insurance loans and the general opinion is fair. A compromise may involve creating a real-estate value value number, since an increase in market prices for housing for one month will only increase the price of the house that pays and sells in that month but will not change the price assessment of a new home. The swing of the housing team would be reduced. Is this something a natural? A senator could provide for when the ultimate. The prime minister brings up a bill on a review of money policy and its implementation?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u68	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator and president of the budget board for the counter-sponsor. We've been talking about the housing team. He's played a part in the motions here on that part. In advance, you must state yourself ready to consider what would be presented in this relationship and to be open to good ideas. I believe, though, that the big case here is, as I have allowed myself to step in before in this platform and elsewhere, that the arrangement we have with insurance is simply not acceptable to anyone. There's nothing available. Why is that? That's because it doesn't seem acceptable. It is not acceptable to place this risk on homes, ordinary people who are not financial / financial experts, or who are a result of business ventures. That's both of them. We have to get out of this. In the North countries, housing is financed by loans of 2%. In this regard, people have gone so far as to be sure that they have a loan and a much higher rate of interest on top of it. It's absolutely wild. One day, a person will look back and ask, " What kind of problem was in these matters while this was being tolerated here? ' I have to use this opportunity, and I'm disappointed that, on the part of a financial minister, there is no objections to any additional requirements for homes falling on account of the carbon account, but I shall not say any more. Thank you so much. A senator for the counter-sponsored.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u69	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. That's very clear. I'm glad to hear it. A senator would like the suggestions presented in the Gylfi that include the discussion when we take the bill for inspection. That's what's going to happen to the council. I think it would be very wise to consider having reasonable suggestions here, at least, if the conclusion is that to some extent the cost of housing is calculated into the index. I don't have anything to say about the insurance policy. A senator went well over here and agrees with each other. Senator. But I'd like to return to it for a second. A senator spoke about his speech, his position of state funds, and the sustainable state funds into the future. He put it in the context of our being strong when we face tragedy, as it were in the collapse. At that time, the wealth of the Kingdom was strong, and having a debt without debt saved much. When we discuss sustainability into the future, with the exception of respecting the rules of government financial debt, which is a very strong tool in this context, the self-sustaining of state funds, we've put in reserves on unfinished pension bonds, which are very important, and paid off debts. In this context, we also refer to a national fund, and now we have a reason. A senator talked to him about it. I'd like to hear a thought. A senator has a national fund in this context.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u70	Mr. President. I want to make it quite clear that I have not described any particular view of the ideas presented in the recent report for prime minister. What I've said is that in advance, you must want to look at what is presented with an open and positive mind but I can't say that I particularly like being a little girl in this arrangement, as big a defect as it is in its nature. There is no international reference to housing like this in the same way we do. A great search has been carried out and a great cooperation work by the European Economic Standards involved in the European Economic Organization Eurostat, the European Union, but no conclusion has been made on this subject. I think it's a perfect reason to find out how much this mortgage has cost a government fund in recent years, taxpayers. How much money he has sucked into him that could otherwise have been used for those who are lazy in our society, for health care, for education, and for other such matters, that I do not talk about the police and the Children's Hospital. I don't think that's the other thing, a person has been told that this housing has put 118 billion on loans from homes for apartment purchases as the general price change went down to 15 billion. That is a perfect reason to call for the answer to the question: What is the cost of a government fund, the taxpayers, all of us?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u71	Mr. President. I can't help but rejoice in my coming to the chair. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Before this council, I started to do it, but I got so much from the President's time, who said my time was up, and it was about me chilling, because my time never came, but now he's here. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] We're on 1st. ... as we all know who are sitting in this room and interesting to watch, for it is in many ways very different from what it has been in recent years, quite another discussion. I'm not going to put any quality estimates on it, but it's one in that today there's no crying call for spending on this party or the other as we have known in recent years. I feel that those who take part in the discussion and discuss the budget bill are a little bit out and south, but you can't trace one thread in that discussion. One category feels that there is a great deal; another category feels that there is a crisis at a low level and still needs some of the expenses, and then some speakers manage to have both these opinions in the same speech. I won't fire it any more. Then come the second. Councilmen and material discussions are interesting and interesting about some of the qualities we have heard about when the discussion has passed. I appreciate that. It's quite extraordinary to be in this discussion now, for the last two years, so I'm running it now, just a respectable president, we've put a budget under challenging and special circumstances. And once again, I would like to review it in this hearing that the release of a budget bill in the fall of 2016, before Christmas 2016, with no government section, increased the expenditures of 12.5 billion from the bill, and until the council had settled it, and those who were involved in it developed a lot of criticism. This is where we increase them by 55 billion. We also greatly increased them in the last ones. That's what I want to draw forward with this. We have seen the economy grow tremendously in recent years, in recent months, and we have succeeded in playing cards to the point that we have not threatened the balance we have to live with but less. Even though economic growth is not as high as it once was, it may still be better and more reasonable to handle it in the currently predicted numbers than to watch it as it has played in recent years. Stability, new opportunities for employment and good employment, rising wages, high costs, and low inflation have been marked in recent years. The rest of the government has become almost self - esteem and homes, and businesses have grown on the outside. This is an enormous achievement. At the same time, debt has decreased and savings have increased, and it was important that at the end of 2016, the land's ideals for abroad became positive for the first time since the measurement began. We have expanded our reputation in foreign markets and are now blessed with loans. This is an amazing change over a short period of time, and I think we'll figure it out, and we'll have to figure it out at the beginning of this discussion about the budget of the milestone. Let us consider that discussion and acknowledge it. The total debt of the state since 2013 has dropped by more than 600 billion, disbanded from 86% of the land's production at the highest rate in 2011, and is currently moving toward just over 30% as it will be at the end of the year, the budget bill is going on as follows. Next year, and it's been traced to the highest speeches. Secretary of finance, we're finishing the loans we took to rebuild the banking system, and we're completing paying off the debts of the state's funds during the major financial crisis that took place about a decade ago. This is an enormous stage, and it is a trust that has been raised in national debt and that affects our economy, whether we look at homes or businesses. It is vital that we maintain these things and truly is what we can say primarily that we have used the kind one to prepare us for a more difficult time if they are due. In itself, the maps say that great hardships lie ahead, but we in this country have previously seen big fluctuations, and we have enjoyed the use of natural resources that are certainly in harmony with laws other than many other economic systems we know. The good thing we're celebrating now, i.e. The anniversary of sovereignty, tells us that we succeeded in playing the cards given a century ago. The poor nation in a relatively large country, but now one of the richest and envyful places with their financial and State's status at that time, at the beginning of this financial debate, in a fine place. The provision of households has increased rapidly over the past few years. In recent years, buying power has increased by 25%, and private consumption has grown, and it is clear that people have a table for the table, and this has increased, thus making the home more money to pay off debt and their debt ratios are also low in historical context, as well as economic savings high or up to 30% of GDP. All of this is a sign of success and success, and it is our job in this hall to maintain that success so that we can say that we have walked for good and that we have made a positive move. The result of the Kingdom has been improved by growing national income and wise decisions, including with a decrease in debt, as I've traced and we've gone very far in the increase of bills in recent years and then I draw out one particular example, e.g. the increased cost of health care, which clearly shows up in the budget and the presentations presented on the budget, with expenses for each taxpayer, each person, for health care in 2010, 485 levels per taxpayer. K. are now estimated to be 650. K. on the budget bill, or about a 34% rise. This is a big change. Of course, today's debate over the budget was changed because the call for contributions to health was strong and much for other factors. We have made a tremendous increase in the cost of health care, and now it is time for us to take a serious look at what we can get for all the money we contribute to these important systems. What a joy it is when it is the highest! The secretary of finance announces that his Ministry has now had a special job in improving the efficiency and use of the funds we contribute to the various kinds of issues. I think it's fundamental that we will be successful in our resources, making better use of our money, using our government spending, and handling in a way that allows us to get as much money as possible from the taxpayers. You see, there's only a limited amount of money. In fact, there is a limited amount of money. In fact, there is a limited amount of money for other people, which we really are making out here at any given time and calling for more money, are called primarily on to make arrangements for some of the money we are going to get that would be better off with people who are their products. In nature, we can follow a group of lawsuits and consider the development of expenses. It has been very clear in the discussion of the key issues that are presented in December of the year December, a respectable president, when we discussed the budget for 2018, what the focus of this government is, I do not follow it here, but I just appeal to it as the highest. The chairman of the financier in his fine speech was that we may now be getting to the point where these legislation and this environment of state funds that we are working on is finally about to become active and reach a full circle, and we can say that the government has become stronger. The government's become stronger, and I expect that in the end. The legal committee on this important bill will discuss this with careful consideration. So, hopefully, we have set aside the discussion that this is not enough or that is not enough, for when is enough? Rather, let us discuss more carefully how we use our money. Are we doing so in a reasonable way? How can we improve our ministry?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u72	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator, who has been inspired by me in the questions raised several times earlier: How do we use the money we receive? How can we know how to use them when we do not even know what to give money? It has been the very essence of what I was asking about here: How do I know how much to cost if I'm not told? I'm just saying, here, give me 100 million or something, and I'll do what I can with them. How can we assess the results when we fail to discern in advance what our expectations are when we receive this coin? After the collapses of the crash years, how far have we come to make up that recession? There's been a recent debate in 2016 and 2017 funding, etc., that now we can finally afford to work out a certain decline in the health system and roads, which were definitely subsidized during the contracting years, the collapse of the years. How far have we come in this journey? I think that until we're in the same place in maintenance of these things we can't really say we're in the plus. It's not until we've evened out the contractions. There are a number of things that disproportionately appear in the senator's comments on the budget. Yes, it is. However, there are also some factors that make it bickering in the budget itself and financial programs, e.g. whether or not to reduce income tax by 1% at a lower level or equivalent. It is now found that the increase in personality discount is approximately equivalent but not the increase promised, which is said to be the first step out of four in equal steps. There's only one eighth that seems to be now, that one slice of pizza we talked about yesterday. I'm wondering if there's anything else inside the clearly missing in a financial program. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u73	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Because of the question raised by a senator here as to whether we have reached our previous contractions, we can say that borrowing a government fund because of the shock he suffered was in two ways: first of all, the direct loans of funds and the loans that we actually do by drawing on, such as maintenance. ... wehaveaideand other factors we postpone. I don't think there's any account that can bring us some truth in this matter if we've reached the contractions, so I'll answer that question directly. But the reality is that we have never in recent times put as much money into maintenance as we do today. And we now place considerable money in investments and reforms on various government property and are now on the move. It has the largest building in a new hospital, a huge project, and long waiting. So we can say: We are well - off on reaching back what we had to postpone because of the circumstances we do not need to trace here. Second, what's wrong. A senator asks about, i.e. how we use the money. It is in itself our task of trying to look through the way we employ the funds we have from every time. I tell them first, there's always work. I notice that, for the first time in a very long time, of the time I've been allowed to observe in this field, we don't see that the major abnormalities we've sometimes faced and know are too well on a budget board.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u74	A respectable president. Much of government policy in recent years has just been paying off government debt. You're right. A senator points out that we took a loan elsewhere because of road maintenance and health care, etc. We're now paying off that debt. So, obviously, our debt due to the crash years has not come to zero in this respect. Surely we contribute a great deal of money to regain our former position. I think it's just a reflection of the fact that we're not back where we were before we went into this debt. There is no need to be very accurate in foretelling when we will be at zero, but I think it is obvious, both of the discussion, the finer events we are entering, the demands of our health and the news about our transportation system, etc., that we have not yet come to zero. It's hard to tell exactly when it's gonna be, it's hard to be precise in this regard, but I think it's very easy to say that we're not there yet. Yes, we have a strong position to pay off these debts, not just money debt, obvious loans, but the deposit we took. I am certainly looking forward to the years when we return to the zero, to the place where we were before crash, and to the passing of a sack like that. I think it's interesting years ahead, seeing how we deal with the budget at that time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u75	Mr. President. Let us not interfere with this discussion too much. We are in an amazingly strong position. In recent years, we have an outstanding increase in riches. The debt is better than we planned just months ago. We're in a strong position. Go ahead. paritaprevir The burden of Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, that we still owe, is a discussion that no doubt ends. But I just remind myself of it because he specifically mentioned the dress issues. We have, for example. the increase or increase in pay from public workers in the labour market over the last few years. Rather, it is the expansion of the state funds each year. Take it, for example. Just the cost of this year, it's probably 1,75,20 billion on the basis of collective reforms or raises due to collective agreements, i.e. This year's budget increase, if I take these numbers raw with all the warnings that can be made in those topics. Let's not draw a feather that we're in a good place. We have unique, strong standing. What a responsibility that comes with!
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u76	Mr. President. I find it appropriate to participate in discussions here, 1st. available bill to budget 2019. It is just a year since I was standing here on a public speaker and giving a talk about the budget bill of the government that was then present. I had doubts about that financial bill, especially the income side, criticized it. It made it clear that I had difficulty or could not support the plans that were presented there. But I didn't know that a few hours later the government would all, not because of that speech, but at some small meeting somewhere in town. [[(b) How can we show that we are mild - tempered and lowly in heart?]] But there it is. I promise you, this speech will not cause any tremors. Oh, no, no, no, Of course, if you are to describe the development of government funds in recent years, it cannot be described with a better word than a charge. There is another possibility, though, when you are sitting under the speeches of men who call for a steady increase in expenses, expenses on top of you, as if it were a very special goal in itself, and there is some particular measure of how well we are in this hall how well we are able to increase the government's expenses. There is never a single word about the quality or service that comes with these extra expenses. The highest figures and highest calls for raising expenses are the least concern about how public funds are spent, because they are the money of the public we're dealing with, employees, companies, and whether they're protected by reason. It is quite clear that the existing bill that we consider to be and we clean up, perhaps making some adjustments if we count a reason, is a bill that predicts a significant increase in expenses another year, 55 billion. That would have been news to the next town on the top of this year's budget increase of over 50 billion. It is a remarkable achievement to be able to carry out some of the extra expenses for various lawsuits and to run a government fund on the right side of the line. And not only that, but it will benefit the future in a way that has been done in recent years. We can argue about things here in this room when it comes to the government business. We can debate whether to place more or less on certain issues in a particular matter. And we can debate whether to raise or lower taxes, pay these bills or the others, whether to weigh people's salary or to lighten their pockets. We can talk about it all. However, we cannot debate that there has been a truly wonderful success when it comes to living in the best interests of the future. It's amazing what you've done, and I'm a top dog. President, I'm going to tell you a lie. At the end of the coming year, the debt of the state, the state's budget, will be 670 billion lower than when the debt was highest in 2012. With the financial program that we agreed on in spring, the debt will be 790 billion less in 2020 than when it was the highest. This is about Nine million. K. to each family of four. So a new year marks a beginning of new times. We have been able to pay off the debt, the burden we took on ourselves, the state funds taken over the collapse of the financial system, but we have been able to enjoy it in recent years as well. We have enjoyed it, in the form of lower interest and higher government opportunities, by adding extra expenses to the subjects we would like to be involved and also to ease a little spell on companies and individuals who seem to be toxic to some members of the council here. Just to put things in perspective, if we had to keep the same amount in terms of growth and financial expenses since 2013, that would be necessary. The total financial cost of the state, as we did when it was the highest in 2012, would have cost 138 billion dollars. More interest than we've ever done. Then I count it a year to be here, considering the budget bill. 138 billion bucks. In recent years, savings has been gained by the way government has been maintained. It should be discussed only with what huge results this is and how much it will matter to us in the long future how things have been under way since 2013 have been under way. The secretary of finance first sat in the position of the secretary of finance. This savings, 138 billion, amounts to over three years of donations that we are going to transport, billions that we have been saving because we have acted wisely. However, I have repeated this past council and expressed concern that we are on the edge of an increase in expenses. I'm worried we're going too far. But at the same time, I admit that there are other areas where we need to do better. I've particularly been a spokesman for the social security system when it comes to micro-piercing. But we also need to be clear about what we have done, even though people here speak as if there are bleeding cuts at times. Health costs on a fixed price have increased from 153 billion to 209 billion this year, reaching 249 billion in 2020, according to the financial programme we agreed on. In a decade, we spend extra expenses on health care because we agree to do so, some 100 billion. This is a 63% increase. Health expenditures will be 223 at the decision we made in the spring of 100 billion higher than they were 2013, an increase of 63% in real life. The same can be said of contributions when it comes to the issues of the elderly and the disability of the elderly. I'll admit that there are some things that have not been accomplished, but that has been the case with an increase of 77 billion in real life. If we're going to set this year, it's 53 billion. At the same time, we keep up - to - date with the government's financial contributions, i.e. The income of the state's budget is increasing by 230 billion until 2023, with a tax account of 223 billion. [[The president calls.]] They're demanding an increase in tax returns. There's no money left in the bank. [[The president calls.]] Of course he's at the expense gate, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u77	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator and president of the Economic and Business Committee is very much interested in a talk. Let me just say the last words. The financial program has budgets for the Hospital Service and Medicine area, which are summing up in rapid mental accounts of 220 billion and 2023 to 250 billion. Whether to match the number as a what? A senator mentioned earlier is only seen in the synopsis, or he can correct it. I'd like to roll up with something. A senator, for he mentioned that we should discuss this, 138 billion dollars. what he listed made money. I definitely would like to discuss that, especially with regard to the last speaker, why. paritaprevir The Haraldur - looking son of Benediktsson, where only this collection of debts was reported in our interiors. The problem is that borrowing money on the loans of cash, we can clearly see the cost of interest. We'll keep it in front of us. When we borrow from our infrastructure by not maintaining it, by neither caring for it nor by building it, we see much less what it costs. It's just the same loan that's just one thing that financial advice pointed out, repeatedly, that it lacks so-called cost-benefit analysis so that we can see clearly in front of ourselves any of the measures we have to take best with the public money gives us the greatest benefit. These may be loans of cash, but it may also be that there is a greater improvement in the outcome in the end of making good roads.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u78	Mr. President. It's not always a long way between me and a why. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví, Gunnarsson. Although most of us may disagree with each other, that is not all of it. I think it's quite reasonable to wonder if we've borrowed some of the infrastructure. I think it's true and that there's a very reasonable reason to believe that, as a result, I've called it in the public chair that there's most likely a gathering need in the interior of over 500 billion people. There were not many in the hall who accepted that opinion, but I have called attention to it. Then we can agree that there may be 500 billion in debt. That may be so.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u79	On what interest?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u80	But it's not that simple. We too are to talk about the Kingdom property. Are we making wise use of them? No, the State has a lot of real estates, businesses, various possessions that they do not use wisely. I've been criticized for, including... ... frommatemovesmoney. A senator, when I have reasond it and fought to change the state's property and enter social infrastructure. I have, for example. Name Leifs son of Erik's Air Station, that it is wise to sell it, change it from income to bridge, or build up more in health care, education systems, etc. You see, I don't always think that we look at the ways that we use the property that the State holds and shouldn't be messing with. We're here to take this discussion. The other one's right next to him. A senator, that there are many things he cannot do when it comes to social infrastructure, whether by health or by education, and now I do not talk about transportation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u81	A respectable president. And last but not least climates, so I'll give you a talk. Senator. What is lacking in this discussion about our debt on wood is the cost of interest. We don't know. It's unclear. We've never had a complete diagnosis of him. Yes, to some extent, it was a report published by the Industrial Association that only showed the debt. But again: What is the cost of having such a debt? It's harder to get there. I can say with what. A senator, how the government operates on the companies it runs or the services it renders, must always be considered. In the end, however, people who care for the business, whether in private business, in public business, in volunteer work, or in anything. People, anywhere, make mistakes. There will be corruption in monopoly, there will be official corruption in choosing that one, but not the other one, gets the job, etc. It's where I think we need to look more closely, that the competitive environment is free from corruption, that the public service is free of priorities of the best friends of the main and the like. At the same time, we certainly should always review what we get for the public money, for one of our main questions, especially in the budget, is, "How do we best with public funds? "
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u82	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much. It would be worth one Mass to take a special discussion on how we use the Kingdom property, whether we do it wisely - but I think we should start by discussing it here, so we can understand what we're talking about. [[Report?]] I suppose that's what. They are actively involved by a senator. Perhaps it is true that I use such discussions here, how we use the Kingdom property, and whether it is done wisely, in the way that the public demands we do. I have doubts about it, and I have reasoned with them. Similarly, when deciding how to defend our shared resources, we need to ask ourselves, " Do I make sure that the services I am taking from our clients, voters, and the public, are in a way that we get real money, get what I have to buy for the money? ' It does not matter whether it is the Kingdom itself that renders it service or private property. We are to look for ways to render service that we agree that the Kingdom is to be guaranteed in the most practical way. This means that we should stand firm and be able to make good use of the personal effort when it is practical and that we should make use of the benefits of the Kingdom work when it is wise to do so. All of this is to work together without making any suspicion or harboring some jealousy. [[The president calls.]] If we succeed in this discussion, the highest. President, we've got some drifters behind us.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u83	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason gave an interesting talk earlier and an interesting answer to an answer. paritaprevir Björn Gunnarsson. But that was not the least tone of speech. A senator who was very interesting. It was an angry reading of how well you're doing. I have to say, listen to what. The senator will speak for the highest. The minister of finance for his work was also very interesting. He discussed the tremendous success that has been achieved in reducing the debt of the state. I will, of course, agree that it's a good result, but it's not just the highest. Thanks to the secretary of finance. It was during the prime season of Sigmundur, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, who made wise and right decisions that had a major impact on those matters. You're right to keep it up. I'm interested in getting an explanation for one thing at a time. Senator. He says that tens of millions are going into the medical system, and that is a very reasonable arrangement. I ask: Is it a reasonable arrangement to spend most of the money in concrete on Ring Road? Counts 'em out. A senator that a new national hospital on Ring Road is a reasonable arrangement? We've already heard of noise and other inconveniences experienced by patients in the hospital. There's only one small building that's a hospital hotel, it's out of control, and it's overstepped all plans, etc. It would be fascinating to find the answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u84	Mr. President. It's a pain in the ass. A senator may feel as if I had an angry speech, but it's just the weird voice that's like that. In 1974, I was so happy to participate in the preparation of the National Theater in John Arason's Bishop of Hólar, Hjaltadal, where thousands of people were watching Gunnar's Eyjólfsson, and I was doing quite well, and everyone heard me. But the reading of anger, yes, it can be my way of doing so. Of course I was wondering. Secretary of finance, if that is the case, for the results. But it's quite right to think that the show should be done. paritaprevir The Sigmurs of Gunnlaugsson Gunougsson. And that's what I've done. A senator, not even twice or twice, but repeatedly, both in these discourses and in writing. It's relatively easy, if people are interested in it, and I'm quite aware that there are very few people who are interested in it, to find out where I'm coming from, where I'm going, and what opinions I've had. I've tried to make it a rule that when I change my mind, which happens, because as I get older, I always get better and better aware that I am not infallible than the rest of the audience - in 2007 I wrote an article in the Morning newspaper, including a magazine. of the proposed construction of the Land Hospital on Ring Road. I did not criticize local circumstances, but I criticized that the building of a hospital might be about to take place when we hadn't built the foundation. I compared it to building a roof without a foundation or walls. [[The president calls.]] I can come to that later.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u85	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason responds. It would have been better if he had taken a little closer to the National Hospital at the Ring Road and the mistakes that are going on there, unfortunately. I'm convinced that history will say it and prove that the project was planned and that it is unwise. I cut it against him. A senator resists what? paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson is interested in selling Leif's Air Station to the son of Erik. Are the back rooms of the Independence Party already having a good time selling their state estates to someone they're especially pleased with? Presumably. But if it's a class policy, I'll ask why. Senator, selling Leifs Erik's Air Station? It would be good to get that answer right here and now whether or not the foundation is already in place. It would be determined by independents to work on it this way and then contribute to the government and the government business as the election nears. It'd be nice to have a good time. A senator would come into this important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u86	Mr. President. I'd love to have a conversation with you. A senator without his involvement. What kind of backmack is it when we talk publicly that I'm a follower of it and think it's right to sell the son of Leifs Erik? That's a little behind the curtain, isn't it? I'm in the back of a yurtteak if it's considered a backmack saying his opinion on a speaker's chair. I'm asking why. A member of Parliament: It is not all right to have a word with others in the Hall of Congress without constantly grudging or being devoid of speech. A member of the council so that he feels that he is not able to accomplish anything differently than to make bad motives? It doesn't give us anything. Senator, nothing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u87	It was just a question.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u88	- Yeah, it's based on windows, and I've already answered it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u89	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to finance when the country's situation is exceptionally good. The State Fund's status has not been stronger for years, and national production has never been greater. The situation is, in fact, amazing, as we have been here, when just ten years have passed since the economic crisis. The biggest results we can see so clearly, and when we consider the situation, we see the decline in the state's debt over the years. The debt and pension commitments have dropped by 800 billion. It is often difficult to imagine how large such sums are, and the amount is really worth. To make this possible, 800 billion times the amount we will spend next year's road account, more than a hundred times the amount spent on the new county building, eight times the amount spent for hospital service next year, and for this money, we could also buy 150 rescue helicopters. So you could continue to count. Granted, it's just a game of speech, but sometimes it's good to put things in perspective so that you can better figure out the results you've made. Because of the government's emphasis on paying off debt, Iceland has come into a very few years. We now pay, for example. 26 billion less interest rate in 2019 than in 2011. It's only a few years. For that amount, e.g. Buy five rescue choppers, so we continue to play with numbers, since huge crowns can often be difficult to put in perspective. The key point, however, is that the budget used to pay interest and maintain debt can now be set aside to build up and strengthen the work that the State has decided to do. A respectable president. The credit rating has reflected economic benefits in recent years. It takes into account a lower debt, an increase in the cost of buying, a happy agreement with the pair of broilers, and a high level of government stability, to name something. It must be considered as we consider the modern structure that has not been possible without the results of a decline in State debt. If the bill had not been paid in subsidies, as some believe was overworked, then the account would have been sent to the next generation, to the future taxpayers. It is not empty phrase that today's debt is the tax of future generations, but the fact. So we have an envying position that can strengthen our system more fully. You see, with a solid and responsible economy and a large-growing budget, there has been a real space to promote the health and welfare system, the education and transportation system, and other systems as well as to reduce taxes. This is done without adding the State's expenses to the share of land production. This is not enough, though, for we must always reconsider whether we are overworking our expenses. You see, it's a matter of overworking. They often do not easily have opportunities for economic management and technology and do not feel that private people are inclined to care for a number of projects that are uncertain if they need to be in the hands of the government. That's why I like to rejoice over it. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson did, how the discussion of budgeting has developed between the years. The discussion is very different from that of the past few years. Will more members of the council discuss the post of spending and whether we're doing too much? In recent years, there has been a discussion of budgets in which only roofs cry that there are insufficient funding in the others and in these lawsuits, politicians have made it possible to reach out for more funding, everywhere there is space for the rise of taxes, and no basis for destroying material things. It may also be that there are politicians who, at the same time, have thought that debt is the greatest injustice. There has been a total island throughout the discussion that the importance of saving other people's money, that unsuspecting expenses are not automatic, and that there is no consistent signal between spending more money and the success or submission of the project. I am glad that the discussion has changed for the better, and I am sure that there are a number of ways in which you can find practical tasks that can be considered, that you can let a private person around, or simply stop caring for them. A respectable president. We also need to look to the way we use and treat our funds with respect, preferably with respect for those funded, individuals, and businesses, as well as for them. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason came in with his speech. Hence, we need clear goals on how we use the funds, how we use it, and how we use it. Increased financial resources, though at times, do not necessarily lead to better or more services, and this is especially true of government agencies. We are in too many cases too busy to secure each institution and each project more money than watching the overall picture with the eyes of those paying the taxes. It is therefore wish that members of the Parliament who take the budget as a matter of concierge also think that therapy does not always involve strengthening or adding a budget, it would do well if they saw ways to reduce and manipulate more than the other. We are not excluded by members of the Independence Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u90	A respectable president. I didn't necessarily expect to give an answer but talk about it. A senator gave me a measure of insight into this game of playing numbers that I like to play. I'll see how many helicopters you could've bought, etc. I play that game every once in a while. But we don't just play with numbers in this room. We also play with life. I know I'm a little dramatic when I say so, but we're playing with life here. Our decision on health statistics is life. The tents of Saturday is a matter of life. A 9 percent experiment that was mentioned here yesterday is a matter of life. Mental health is a matter of life. There is also a small cost, which is not played down to 26 billion in direct interest costs, yet there is a cost of interest. I don't want to draw it down on the comparison, but I thought it was better to draw attention to the fact that other cost groups have the same impact on our community as on interest on the interest of the loans. It's a boring comparison, it's boring to compare numbers with people, but the comparison is here because we make decisions about what health systems we want to have. According to this, we have a full - time mental - health program. Great. What has it cost us not to do so before? is a question that we find hard to answer, but we can easily answer the question about money's direct loans. It's kind of sad that we don't have a better comparison.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u91	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this answer. He's right, because tomorrow we'll be talking about how we're handling the money in individual teams. Then there is what he compares with what is truly complicated, comparing money with life, but it is not just a matter of money, though it is often. We've done well and the priorities that you can see most clearly on this budget bill, but it's not only about money, because it's about how we're going to pursue health care, whether the patients are in first place and on the basis of the most important thing in the system or the system itself and the state. I think maybe half the money is what it's important to do the system right, how we're going to manipulate it, not just the money. You're right. A senator said about the mental - health program. The first phase of a mental - health program was set here several terms ago and is now in full financial support. There's a lot of work there. We also see in the countries around us that this has proved to be complicated, for it has grown tremendously in recent years, and most important, because the discussion has come to a much higher place where people are not more afraid to talk. You see, I'm not sure that the problem is much bigger today than it's been before. People are not more afraid to talk about it, talk about mental health, and the life we lose because of mental health is much more superficial. That is why I am so happy that we have responded with both clear, mental - health and financial responses.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u92	Mr. President. I'd like to have a word with what. A senator because I know that she cares about the government box and doesn't want too much tax to be around here, and it's respectable, she's completely concerned about it. I can totally agree that taxes are not supposed to be too high, they should just be high enough to live with what we promise our voters. How high they should be, perhaps there we may be. But I would like to ask. A senator about one thing. When we're at the left at the center calling for more government expenditures, we're always charged with: where are you going to get the money? I have repeatedly mentioned from this talk what form of income is lacking. I'm not going to go over it specifically here. But, hey. However, a senator also calls for practical management. All right. I'm sure there's always room to make. But I'd like to ask. A senator: Where in the world does she want to adjust? I kind of demand an answer from her, since she's specifically pointing out that this is where the system has swelled, according to her opinion. Whatever the case, where is she going to cut it down or adjust it? Is that from law enforcement? Is it the hospital? Is it the school? With micro-piercs? Older citizens? High school? Is it transportation? Where do you see this economy? It is particularly interesting to put this into context, in view of the fact that there is a sharpness. A senator is one of the leaders of the Independence Party, and I mentioned earlier this morning at the National Conference of Independence Party, which was spoken of as cutting down the government charge by about 300 billion, 10% of the domestic product. That's a pretty bloody cut. Where's the Independence Party gonna cut down, find these 300 billion? Where does the Independence Party intend to adjust as a friend? A senator repeatedly notes that it is necessary to do so?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u93	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's sincere objection to the fact that I feel that the tax of a country has been sufficiently high, and it has been shown if we look at the budgets of the past few years, it has not been necessary to strengthen the foundation of society as a dog. Of course, a senator would like to mention here as the main focus of what the government finances, and I agree that it should be under government custody. It has not been necessary to increase taxes just to promote all these pillars, to treat children's families, and underpayers, such as the U.S. and so on. But then he asks me where I want to cut down. On page 18. 81 is e.g. A section on better business. With a little better management, and as I mentioned in my speech earlier, economics and technology, which the State often seems to be too late to resort, hundreds of millions can be saved, both when sending mail, larger software contracts, and electronic declarations can be added and so on. The state is just too hovery in so many cases. That's where I think it's important to adjust. So, of course, I can mention a lot of other matters that I think the government doesn't necessarily have to do that basic service. A senator brings up his opponent. We agree on how the State should finance a particular basic service. This does not mean, however, that there is no better negotiations. It has been said that the government's alcohol trade is costing certain money for the State. I don't think the State Radio is as big as it is. I could keep counting. Most important, the better business of the government, and even greater priorities for these basic factors that we have been setting priorities in the past will be due to greater success. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u94	Mr. President. Yes, the booth, the frequent chitchat. With all due respect for e-mails, or no e-mails, there are no 300 billion there. Of course, you can arrange in a lot of places, but 300 billion is pretty high. Not many months have passed since the Independence Party Meeting reasoned on this. I suppose most of the senators of the great party agreed. So again, I call for a clearer answer. Where are you going to find the big numbers? Here's a word. A senator also realize that there are things the State should not do. What is that assignment? It mentions ATTVR. Can I get a further explanation for that, more projects? Where does the pack draw the line? What is the Kingdom to do and what is not to be done? Now, almost always in the government, this category has been since we got the republic. There are plenty of opportunities to take action. I often feel that independence is saying one thing here and another in the community. That's a little strange to me. You're proud of a swollen budget bill that you think will satisfy most of the needs of you, but when you leave this room, it's time to perform surgery. It's a little strange. About the tax burden. It's interesting. A senator says that this is not supposed to raise taxes. However, tax burden has increased in one group, that is correct, that is, in the low income group. That's happened in the past few years. Why does this happen? This is because the discount includes the character discount. Sit down. He's now 53 fars. K., he would have been 74 ups. K. if he had followed a pay number. Since then, the benefits have been undermined, these welfare measures, such as child reforms and growth reforms, which are exactly even even both the lowest income. As a result, there has been an increase in tax burden between the largest and intermediate groups. When we were last in the government, we set 100 billion bucks. in interest of interest and child support in the terms of the season. This resulted in a decrease of tax burden in the income - share group as determined by the college assessment. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Here, the politics are a big deal when it comes to tax and tax rates.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u95	Thank you. A senator for this answer. My talk now focused mainly on the fact that less debts are less interest. Of course, tens of billions of less interest payments enable us to handle matters much better. What is that as the Independence Party or the government, huh? In fact, a senator just asks about the Independence Party, does he want the state to take care of? These are the basics he mentioned himself in a previous answer, that are transport, education, health, the social security system for older citizens and poorer people, and these are the courts and the local law. These are basics in which we will do well and focus on priorities. Other factors are not so important, these are the basic factors we should set priorities, and we should do well and be careful, see where we can do better, and continue to build up. This is exactly what these budgets and last budgets have been doing. What I was just pointing out in my speech was that there is not always a need for more expenses, and it is heard here at the Senate Hall and in a different discussion of budgets, even though they don't hear from what they're talking about. A senator who is one of those who always ask for more and more, more expenses. What threatens our stability is exactly what we do if we do not keep our course and get off course. I think that would be the worst of the people we're all so concerned about and would like to do well if the stability is not the same as we've been keeping it in the past few years.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u96	Mr. President. I'm going to say in the beginning that although Mr President and I may disagree on this, I'm happy to have him back here, even though he's not in custody, but I hope he doesn't get nose bleeds from the boring talk. First as a boy. paritaprevir Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir said. You see, there are plenty of other things that we do not know how to spend the money that goes to these four basics. This has shown the view that we should, in effect, limit ourselves to it and nothing else. She's calling RUSH. I would like to mention culture, art, and so forth, which is why we can build a country that will compete with other nations. I think it would be presumptuous to go to a community building that had no way of expecting anything other than the basic necessities of sleeping, eating, and dress. It makes me feel that there is a poor, sad prospect for the nation. It doesn't matter whether we like it or not, we're driving in the winter that's gonna be very difficult for us. There are large groups of people who are struggling to lead decent lives and to make legitimate demands for increase during winter. On the other hand, the air is merely leaking from the economic bladder, and there is cooling of the economy. The fine function of the Icelandic crown in the last few days also calls a warning bell. According to Gallup's summer survey, government officials in the Icelandic economy are also concerned about the worsening situation in the months to come. This morning a minister said that the U.S. country's high standard of living had been maintained in the United States. The crown is no essential for a biographer. She's sometimes come to our aid, and sometimes she's got us in trouble. She may be Loki Laufeyjarson in economics and men's differences, but it doesn't stabilise. It'll do everything else that we'll talk about afterwards. It is the Icelandic public and professional life that has put us to the place we are now. When I'm at the highest. One minister says that the state's funds will be in the situation of finding a balance, so it's all right to wonder who's going to make that balance. Who has the cost of that balance? I think we know that way too well. We know that the decline in the gang will result in in in inflation, increase in growth, and gain the weight of pay. In this case, the remuneration people who enjoyed the goods were not to the same level as many of us, who had a full number of them holding seawater in a bouldering gang. Then there is a slight increase in personality rhythms and a slight increase in child - welfare rate for other reasons. I also found it interesting that already the highest. The secretary of finance introduced funding at a press conference and explained the tiny action to be carried on, and in many ways I find a better way to do so than to reduce income taxation, he also implied that the scope has been extended to the limit, which is expected to mean that the government has no cards in its sleeves. Yesterday, however, he spoke of a man who should never make plans according to the best possible circumstances. Now it is clear that the basis for the fundamental financial and financial programmes at least is different. They expected a continuous economic growth for 13 years and the same centenarian group for three years. We may be going to watch other things. In answer to this morning, one question asked. The governor's senator. Minister how the government would react if serious business practices took place. He quoted a conversation with his daughter who asked him: " Dad, what happens if we crash? He replied: "We just have to hope that he won't be hard. Mr. President. This is a beautiful, delicate response to a child's speech, but of course, it is not an acceptable answer to calm people when the economy is cooling off, and we see a hard struggle. If you're going to drive on a road where there's a real chance you're going to have an accident, then you have to drive safe. There are many warnings that unprecedented economic growth will not last forever. Under such circumstances, governments should have lived below them. I feel that way, like most senators, like hell. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kálmson, the necessity of a massive infrastructure attack. Therefore, all classes spoke for the last and last elections. But I don't feel that we all agree that there is a great need to make things better for the worst. In such a situation, there is only one answer, if it is to be promised things. There we simply know how to discern. It has always been very clear that in order to maintain balance, at the same time spending needs to make money. We've been talking about lost resources. I think all of us could have contributed a little more, and many of the seabed companies would no doubt have been able to do the same. However, our basic role now focuses on distributing our burdens is the same as that of the average - income workers and low - incomeers. Then, to continue with an illustration of driving, you will have the best way of not pushing narrow, sleazy streets that travel great traffic and have many blind hills but will choose a clean and safer route and a better car. Therefore, we always come to the question, Do we not have to aim for a safer currency, which offers more regrets, both for business and less for the public? The little operations that are better than we saw in the spring are too weak and do not meet the legitimate demands of paymen. It is not a pessimist in a number of chairs. Rather, it is simply expressed by a number of stakeholders over the financial bill in the last 24 hours. The presidents of various labor groups have criticized it, speaking of the lack of control when it comes to supporting children's families and employees, whose ambition is complete when it comes to achieving a satisfying standard of living. Iceland's student council has also severely criticized the bill and made it clear that contributions to the university should not be held. The colleges actually receive half as much as was promised in the government covenant. That's a long way to count. It seems that contributions to hospital services are not sufficient and that even a considerable amount of money is needed to hold seawater. The law in this country gets too little money. There are many places to go. There's still a little bit of a board to cover. The concentration of public transport is only rising by 150 million. It is amazing when you see a government's excellent plans for climate that the amount is not higher and that people are not going to put money in the city line, which are both measures that would result in tremendous success in the fight against the climate threat. I can go elsewhere. Developmental contributions are only half of what some neighboring countries add to the seminary. It would be nice to remind ourselves that we are the 11th richest country in the world. Foreign donations drop by 40 million. There's a lot to do. Finally, I feel that even though there are things to pick up positive in the budget, they lack a vision, a determination, and a determination to join the groups that are weak in society. That's not surprising. These are two very different groups that are passing through, and the result is that there will be some grayness that will be brought to us only the right to keep gone.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u97	A respectable president. I'm not going to go further into this traffic illustration, but, of course, you go out into traffic with your belts fastened, drive safely. The economic situation is now that we look ahead on the basis of official national forecasts. When people come and say, " But what if something else happens than they predict in the near future? ' Then, first of all, it is to say that you should not base on any other forecast than on the official either when it is optimistic or if you are having a pessimism. It is important, however, that you have made good living and make good time for them to be prepared to cope with such situations. I believe I have reasoned here that we have. There's no fun in the way we put these things to work. However, I would like to come up here just to discuss the currency. When a dollar gets stronger, it keeps getting stronger because the structure of the economy is changing, the currency flows in because of more tourists, a new service branch exists, the currency is going to do exactly what we're going to do. To me, it cannot be a goal to have a constant currency and only always have it, regardless of what is happening in the economy, the currency doesn't do what it should be doing. It would have, for example. It is very dangerous to bind the Icelandic crown to the euro and then to switch to euro for a very weak dollar and pass through what has happened with large amounts of money, which reflects an entirely different reality, the cooling of the euro's coin system. Then there is a crisis similar to that of Sweden, since they have just no control over matters at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u98	Mr. President. I'm not, in itself, criticizing the highest. The minister and the government consider some national concept. I'm simply pointing out that national forecasts in Iceland may have only limited predictive value, but if there were such predictions in many other places. The crown may exaggerate fluctuations and cause various objects. She gets her job, too. We can talk about a new business that is practically man - made, watching from year to year that all profits go away, and that even though the company is doing pretty well, it's because of walking swing. Travellers, it would be a little luxury if we had that much money now that the number of tourists in the country is increasing, that the only thing we need to consider was to build wood for the tourists, fit the natural world, and think of such things, but will not also get as the result of the persecution of the crown, which was only temporary, but then put other companies into trouble. This can't be ideal. I'm asking the highest. To the contrary, a minister of finance would not have been better if he had provided a budget and financial programme before that under the circumstances where he lived on a currency he knew he was swinging considerably less at least. ... a$25?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u99	A respectable president. I think it's most important that the currency reflects the situation in the economy, that when the toughness of the economy's valley is normal, the currency will yield to other subsidies, where it is not the same. In the event of growth, inflation, high demand is to come here, the influx of a currency as it has been, it is normal for the currency to grow stronger. In time, the land will be more expensive, and it can have an effect, exactly as we see today. The important point is that a dollar has been in a growing phase at the same time that we've had a business. On the other hand, if you could put it that way, you could see such a strong crown when the business hall was as large as the scene in the crash. Then there are underlying forces that do not have the real economic or economic situation. At that time, the cost of living for the future is put to the risk. And we had to give them the standard back in the collapse. That's the context of the parts I'm stressing. True, it is important to try to reduce fluctuations as much as possible. I think we're on a better pace to get more balance on the economy because there are more support for the exports, and it's a better partnership today than there have been a long time between public financial and financial policies, etc. This will help to get more stability in the currency and in the following cases, to get less interest around here in general. But it is not a good advice to pick up a currency that has some value in other currency areas, other systems, and does not reflect what is happening here. In any case, open eyes have to be able to talk about making the economic change through the workforce. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u100	Mr. President. Now it looks like the highest. The minister of finance has discovered this view that he was not on 12 years ago and would be interesting to know which books he has read to support it. I recommend that a minister take a lecture tour to Europe and know the advantage of having a small currency that is highly swinging and suggest to these nations that they take back their coins. I believe that we will be in much more contact with the outside world. This is essential for us. In fact, it's always been that way when we've had more cooperation with foreign countries. Once freedom of business has been opened, it has benefited us. We can also see that a large innovation company, as mentioned earlier, we can name CCP, who have freely spoken about the difficulty of working in Iceland. If we are going to have a basic chance of being in the direction of the changes that are going to take place now through ever - increasing technology, we have to make these companies better and more stable. So let us not forget that in the end, it is always the common people in the country that pays the bill when we walk. So it has always been, when ministers bought cars and made their way by hand the next day, but even now when much open international transactions can have a dramatic impact on the collapse of the currency. Then it'll be the public who pays for it. It sucks now when tens of thousands of people just barely caught their feet in the good ones.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u101	V.E.G. President. I'd kind of like to have a place to talk to. Secretary of finance, I'm very glad he's been at his discussion, because I want to talk to him as a professional minister because he won't be here tomorrow. I'm sorry because under his office, some important organizations I would have liked to talk to him about. Before I do, I want to celebrate especially what was said in return to the highest degree. Just before in his discussion, a minister described his interest in maintaining interest in Iceland's growth. Welcome aboard, chief. Minister. It fills you with some optimism - in addition to what came out yesterday - i.e. We have a meeting at the National Focal Bank to keep the same management interest here. It is naturally as incomprehensible as any of those other meeting types that have been reported in a number of losses, for it does not matter how things are in the world or how they are in Iceland, that the Council Bank's interest decisions lead to its own life. It also raises a question or a question about something else. Finally, on June 28, I received a free answer to a request directed to the highest degree. A minister ever in March, if I recall correctly or February the influx of high - risk funds. It was found that in 2017, nearly 134 billion at a 95 - year - old convention had been able to penetrate this area. This is a natural product of the interest offered here, and this has been seen to cause some of the sectoral problems, temporarily at least. You're also asking, why on earth did they not reduce interest, direction, handsome in 2015 when at least The one mentioned here highly recommended? I suppose that would have prevented this tremendous amount of funding from coming in, and it would surely have saved the tourists in the tourism business and in the fish industry some worries I have in my mind, and I would certainly not have pampered in in inflation. Definitely not. We're still in the middle of vacuuming in money, risk money, because we're offering interest levels that don't exist anywhere else. There will be no change during such a course. I'm also upset when you read these budgets that you'll feel a bit guilty that our Middle-class advice in spring would not be taken over and any profit from selling the bank or part of it would come into the bank because we have a budget of 29 billion dollars left over. At that time, Arion's shareholders were being reimbursed at 10 billion banks the other day. The largest unsolved bite in that bank is the value of Valitor, probably 17 billion in the books of the bank. I would have gladly wanted to see the money end of the state fund, end up with his old collector, instead of seeing them end up in a hedge fund somewhere in opposition to... excuse me, Mr. President, don't say so. So this makes me feel a little sad. I'm going through a few chills, too, because there's a warrant for selling Iceland banks. In view of the way our men followed our advice - or did not follow our Middle-class advice on the Arion bank, I worry about how that sale will take place, really, and I think it's justified. In that room, there is a company called pay and we've gone flat before by selling it to a company or part of it, so it's said. However, I wanted to speak to the highest. Minister of three offices under which he hears, i.e. The customs guard, the government tax manager, the tax investigator. This office is referred to on page 6. 222 and 223 in this fine budget bill. It says that the goal of the seminar is to improve tax exchange and to raise income for common spending. Of course, I cry out. It also says that tax research and monitoring should be promoted, including with emphasis on risk management, job proposals for further action against taxpayers and taxpayers. This also calls for a sense of humor. But I don't see any money in there to do this. It only appears down to the budget, i.e. When you notice the rise in pay, the increase of less than 150 million is done, of which 130 million go to improve equipment at the Cheflavor airport in the Schengen spirit, all good things about it, but there's nothing to see to increase the number of hands and minds there. I've told you before, the customs service is very financial, and its surveillance is a miracle of its own. It performs miracles every day. A very good job is being done there under the most trying circumstances. We will be if we are going to succeed - it is not just about a debt of dollars in the bank of the state, though it is worth much and you naturally know that the wealth of customs will be returned into the state's budget. We're in a hurry. That's an experience. That's what's gonna happen. However, there are additional undesirables we would like to have the customs guard find and prevent entry into the country. That's what I took into account in the debate on policy debate, i.e. dose should be administered at the highest level. Healthcare Minister last night, she has set up a new prescription regulations, i.e. the number of them to be brought to the land, and declared a thorough inspection. I'm asking you, who's going to be in charge of this operation? The customs are full... of the work she's doing right now. [[Noise outside the house.]] - It looks like we're at the Land Hospital right now. - But there's going to have to be some improvement so we can be successful. Similarly, I rejoice at the goals presented here in terms of both the tax investigator and the head of the tax. I know the government tax manager has had a campaign in progress or campaign to further the collection, e.g. In the food and travel business, we've been doing pretty well. It's supposed to be a celebration. But it's on the same book, there's no money. If we're going to get a better collection, if we're going to get more tax returns - the person here is not a spokesman for taxation, but he's a great spokesman for the tax system, he wants the fee to be paid. Therefore, I encourage that the Senate treatment of the bill will be improved. Now I still point out what I pointed out last year, I could take in another law enforcement class here, i.e. The police, because only in the capital area do they need billions of dollars a year to put the police in a situation similar to what it was 17 years ago, i.e. the number of local policemen taking into account tourism growth, partly, etc. It's got a lot of work to do, and it's setting priorities. People are setting priorities. If we're driven or attacked here outside the house, we'll have our priorities somewhere. I'm sure there's someone else who's gone worse somewhere else in town. Of course, he's got a natural priority. It's a disturbing situation. If there's no response now, it's going to end badly. I know about the money set up by law enforcement or the police on this bill, they're going south to the Cheflavour Airport in border security, that's fine, but we need street police, we need police. I've said it before, and I'm going to reiterate it once more, that to get one day's work to work at customs or police, five must be hired. One 24 - hour status is five men compared to 12 - hour shifts. That is what we need to keep in mind. That's why it costs money. Of course, we have to do this because we have to keep the city safe and we have to secure the borders of the country. That's what we have to do. So I ask a minister: What will he do to help reduce our interest in growth? What will he do to help keep the customs under control? What will he do to achieve the goals of those mentioned here for the added taxpayer's taxpayment, both for the government taxpayer and for the tax investigator?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u102	A respectable president. First thing with the interest. I think that over the years there was a considerable lack of our guarantee of public finances, of course, I mean both countries and rural groups, pulled in the same direction as the Navy at any given time. I also don't think that we have a clear picture of what was happening at any given time in the economy. I believe with better economics, improved strategy, clearer targets, as we have set, e.g. In financial regulations, further improvements in regulations and laws, such as us. We aim now for the management of money, following a report on this subject, if we are moving in the right direction. One of the points discussed in this context is whether a person should look at the housing component during inflation testing. I refer to a discussion about it during the year. I believe that if we make a choice in all of this and don't get ahead of ourselves in government expenses - and we've been discussing whether or not we're going to work on government funds, the promise that money's gonna be pretty stable and the inflation rate usually doesn't exceed two and a half points. These are all things I think I can play together to reduce interest. If people talk about growth, I'd like to reiterate what I've said earlier today that interest rates are low today in historical context, and that's because we're getting results. Global growth today is probably the lowest available, at least since I was born.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u103	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the answers. When he says that we may not have had a clear picture of what is happening in the economy, he is expected to be at the Seal Bank, since the decisions made by the Federal Bank last year indicate that they did not have a clear picture of what is happening in the economy, neither on the inside nor on the outside. I can totally agree with the Minister and celebrate. I'd also like to be glad that he's going through a case I hadn't robbed of referring to in my speech, i.e. Structural component of index. There we took Middleclassmen in need and a good case for us, who were referred to the government. You'd be lucky to hear from the highest. Minister to state the case. Is there a drifter yet? Of course, if necessary, we'd move this case back, but we'd be more beautiful if the case had come to the point where it didn't need to be done. Of course, we want to work with the government, and the highest. Ministers primarily, in order to achieve the goal of reaching out for the mortgage. We see every day at every last measurement how unjust this is. The late bank is trying to scratch over it now in this financial conference that it has combined with an increase in housing and other products. This is natural, like when a cat scratches over something in a sandbox, for all figures tell us that now we're going up into a rising inflation, even 2.73/42,8%. But if those very things hadn't been inside, we'd still be in minus 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5%. So it is very important to work on this, and I would like to ask the Minister of the Supreme Minister. where it is. I would also like to refresh my questions about how he intends to improve the law enforcement classes and collect money so that they can do their useful work and achieve the goals set out in this book.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u104	A respectable president. Yes, it is derived from the results of the report that was submitted earlier this year. We've been discussing it on the Minister's Committee. It's the Constitution of winter to respond to the report. It is assumed that the matter will be submitted by the prime minister during this session. Back to the other. A senator spoke a great deal and always talks in a chamber of insight and knowledge. In particular, I would like to mention that we recently made a decision to transfer the collection from customs to the governor of the tax. Then we will look to the fact that there may be both efficiency and practicality as the application and collection of public pay on one hand. This leads to significant changes in the organization of both institutions now working under the leadership of Snorri Olsens, a new head of state tax than the former customs manager. We announced this, but at the same time said that this work resulted in our wanting to look into further partnerships. After the winter's work, it becomes clear how far it will go. But it may be, perhaps not quite easily, but it is the self - assurances that open up to us and can be more efficient in both areas. There are such possibilities. They will, over time, help with the better use of funds, better management, greater efficiency, integration of related tasks, etc. And all that, I think, I'll make up both the collections and the services.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u105	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Ministers are once again rejoicing and delighted to see that we change the index base so that housing will go out there. I'll be the first to press the yes-do because if there's such a case for payment and vote. With regard to the new ideas as the highest. A minister brought in some form of agreement between the head of state and toll, in any way or in part, I know that this was done in both Denmark and Norway, if I remember correctly, and I think the two divisions are still very similar, if we can put it that way. If it is made to increase stroke power in both places, you will find joy in it. But I'm still going to repeat that this party is not worth any money. I expect 2nd. The budget will be a financial committee, under the best of circumstances. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson's son, who is a fighter and comes strong into the second half, has the prelude to change into the bill so that I and the highest. Minister may return to 2nd. discussed how these subjects were moving in the direction that I discussed earlier in my talk. I'd be delighted because it's a big deal that we do that. I say again, the steps we're talking about have been working very hard for a very long time. We are there with a constant lack of health because of bad equipment and heavy stress. We must not let these institutions get down because we do not have the resources to create the financial resources they need.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u106	Mr. President. It is always a thrill when a new budget is released every fall. The winter work is a shock - and - a - moment blow. Councilmen are aware of this and this matter, i.e. The budget, a little what happens and how the whole year goes on. There's a lot of stuff in this budget that can be discussed. I will stay here with the broad drawings, i.e. Rather than go over the details of the lawsuits, rather than try to review them in speeches when individual ministers are responding. I'd like to start by celebrating the direction in which the tax system changes in the bill are going, i.e. It has come to the viewpoints that have been spoken very extensively in the community of many political parties to make the most effective taxation changes. That's extremely important. What a cause for joy that is! In the past, steps have been taken to increase the burden of most in society, i.e. by increasing the capital income tax, which is, in fact, a tax system change that is walking in the same direction. We are taking the steps to place the burdens on which they can preferably be carried. This is important. The budget bill continues in the direction all political groups contributed to the last election, i.e. to add to infrastructure. Surely, most of us can, from both our polls and from our view of the whole country, find assignments, and find places where we could do more and more, which could be put on more money and more money and more money, and find new assignments. Nevertheless, for example, in our health - care system, we are now developing an added 15 billion. We continue with the construction of the Land Hospital, which is a great source of joy to the health system as a whole and we continue to add to the social factors. All this matters. This government has faced a fundamental change in the environment and is taking huge steps to add money. For example, contributions to nature protection, national parks, agriculture, and forestry are increasing by more than 20% between years. There would have been some news here in this hall. Children's settlements rise, and that's how you might count. Education contributions, I agree with many of the above that they had been allowed to increase, but the other is that high school has been reduced, and despite three years of reduction, the total production for the high school is basically the same amount. Maybe that's the explanation. We have this year like a dog. Congress officials know of a significant increase in the amount of money they make in transportation. It continues to do so in this financial bill. Congressmen have been talking about improvements. I'm going to give them some thought in my speech. The total interest level in this bill for growth is slightly reduced, dropped by 400 or 500 million per year. But perhaps I'd much rather take the matter into consideration: Is ideologies behind the fact that the state is paying down interest to a bank, is it true? Is this the right ide? Or are we in a position to give up our thinking in this way? Is this not really just an inheritance of the ideologies that were almost trapped in stone so much years ago that all that could be the object of a person's life would be to have a concrete somewhere when the real government project should be to secure a home, making sure that everyone has a roof over his head? It matters which leg you go first when you enter this discussion, whether you enter it to make the start and end of everything because that way people can have a home, or whether housing should be the case because we will provide people with a roof over their heads. The way we think about this is of vital importance. The question can be asked, " Is my growth reform not just part of the country's growth factor? ' No one has to tell me that if there were no interest improvements and we had housing support in any other form, the banks would trust to keep the interest as high as they do today. Think about it, yeah. Senators.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u107	A respectable president. I got into with it earlier today, how the pension system is built up. That is to say that when we reach a pension age, we are in a debtless home. If we have a substantial cost of housing, the pension will simply not be enough for the majority. Right away. A senator asks if we should consider a different course, leaving the policy of becoming a concrete. We need the pension system in that. I agree with what you're saying. A senator in that direction, for not all are in the same cast when it comes to wanting to own concrete in exactly this place for the rest of their lives or whatever it may be. Some people like to be more on the road. Having an accident in life makes it impossible for people to save money for deposit or to live up to their payments, in effect judging people out of the game when they are in a pension age. I think that's exactly what I'm thinking. A senator points out that everything is important to secure a roof over his head. Unquestionably, today's community's examples show that there has been a failure on that foundation of the pension system. We've missed out on the flaws of what we have in our pension system that not everyone can secure a roof over his head for a pension. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u108	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The answer is for Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. I can totally agree with that. A senator made it clear that while we change our thinking on how to provide superpowers, we must, of course, also make sure that people are really able to support themselves. On the other hand, he knows why. A senator like me is the inability of individuals to use the concrete, so we continue with the metaphor, to support ourselves in old age. We likely all know of the time when people choose for some reason to stay in all too much houses, they have virtually no income of all the money that is in the house and may also have too little money. This does not really associate them with the art of methodology. A senator entered, i.e. That the concrete should be our food in our old age. It's natural within a petal, my ass. Councilmen, and I hope men don't think it's too complicated. It is true, however, that during that change, there must also be a change. We may need to revise what we're paying for the pension system, how we think about the importance of the pension system, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u109	A respectable president. It is so remarkable that the people even plunged the house itself, and they are tied to the memories that are often difficult to leave. I completely understand that people who live for a lifetime want to be there for life. That was, for example, The failure of the wealth tax, property tax, as it was there, where people with great possessions who were really there were exactly there so that people covered their heads, even though the property was certainly too large, that it was not really this personal discount, that they could have a roof over their heads, it doesn't matter how large the roof is when everything happens, that there's a floor on the property tax. Obviously, it was an unfair part of what may have created a problem in further discussions about the estate tax. Another thing I wanted to do was talk to each other. The senator's interest rates and child support, etc. These are some of the strength, the strength of birth, the child support, the strength that grows here and there. Well most of them are linked to income. When people are brought with a scholarship from a few places, which, though, amount a few and then raise a little in pay, all of them are cut off rather quickly. It's a structured trap, you might want to call it, not pay to raise your salary. It's ironic, but in some cases it is. It rhymes quite well with the discussion of a crown across from a penny in microchip, since it is very vague and calculated as to how it is. This is something we need to look at about such systems, e.g. It may work to take away the growth benefits to make the system a little simpler and lower as people increase in wages.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u110	Mr. President. You're probably right. A senator makes it possible for people to love concrete. Likely, we are all in one way or another. Of course, the memories of our living places and everything good about saying are involved, but I can comfort you. A senator whose memories of living in a house may not be forgotten if we move. They're still there, but the overthrow itself may not. You're right. A senator says, we have very rich revenues in all reform systems, or most well-to-do systems, let's say that it's not in everyone at all. I am one of those who have claimed to be both publicly and elsewhere that we may have been very busy with them. In this respect, the present government agrees that it has decided to begin to reduce the loss. Hv. A senator, like me, knows that in the budget bill, significant increases are expected, both in the system of social security beyond the increase in pensioners and also in recovery for disability.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u111	Mr. President. When I get a budget bill in my hand, the chapter I always look at is in chapter two, on the economic outlook. It's just because when we talk about the budget, it's about whether the budget works, which depends entirely on the quality of the economy, according to the way the forecast is done. This is actually the only chapter I have learned enough to say something about the matter at this moment. Happily, tomorrow we will have further discussions about certain chapters. Well, obviously, I'm gonna have to go reading tonight. But when I look at the economic outlook, there are some interesting things. There are a few little things I can't quite see how to stand. It's just like every year when I've watched a chapter like this. For example. is expected to turn to a professional investment, which I don't feel is obvious based on the numbers and information given. It is also said that housing funds will quickly decrease. There is no evidence of this at this time. So there are various reasons for explaining things that need to be explained better. But the factor I would like to focus on is a certain elephant in the room, which is mentioned only at one point in the financial outlook. For he is the best of my sight: no other place is he called upon his name, and he cometh, e.g. there is no evidence in the financial uncertainty section to which I would have any reason. The focus is an event that will take place after 197 days, total unchanged, that is, Bfenit. It's an event that's not gonna happen, it's more likely to happen, but it's not. There are some movements in Britain to move in a different direction, but they do not have much support from the government in that country. We watch certain things happen there. The context, Mr. President, says here on economic prospects: However, because of less growth in tourism than expected, the performance has been reduced. It can be assumed that it may include with the strong gang of the kroner and uncertainty due to Bfenit in the United Kingdom market This is the only place that would be mentioned by Bgret on the name. Yet, a report released in 2016, with the permission of the president, says: ▪ During 2015, goods were exported to Britain for some 73 billion dollars. which was about 12% of all freight exports that year. Over the last few years, the increase in goods to Britain was more than 9% of total exports in 2013 and 11% in 2014. There's a particular linear round that we should be able to measure the situation from there and imagine what it is like today. I couldn't find any more recent numbers, unfortunately. In addition to this, there is a service exchange of over 50 billion dollars. every year. It's really a huge business difference for Iceland. What does this contain? Of course, it is such that if business is reduced, even negligible, to this second largest business country of ours after the Netherlands - or the largest if you see the Netherlands in a fair way where most of the things we're moving there all over - you don't need much recession in business with the United Kingdom to interfere with government income. It is both tax returns and other taxpayings that the State takes to heart. As a result, this could be a significant mismanagement of the image in terms of the budget. This could lead to less rest or even to some other type of trauma. Then it comes out: I haven't seen any stage photos. It is, for example, that shows the impact on the economy in a report on the effect of Bgret in Iceland, on the interest analysis that came from the Ministry of State for spring, to remind me, rather than the last autumn. The entire economy is being examined, but I've never seen any analysis of the impact on financial matters. That's a big concern for me. It is, as was said yesterday by me and others. Councilmen, there are indications that this will be a more difficult year, i.e. The last part of 2018 and 2019, more difficult than ideal. We have naturally gone through very long and good economic growth, but even if Bgret is not available, we still watch social problems. If Bgreit comes up like this, maybe going for 197 days and about seven hours, that I figure that things could just be really bad. The odds that there may not be a deal are small, but it should be a field analysis of the possibilities now available, and various possibilities have been made by the board in the past two months. Then there are some possibilities: no contracts, limited contracts, some extensions, and, well, how are the financial issues affected? Will this reduce the government's taxes by 10 billion, 15, 20, 30, 50? I don't know. Does anyone know?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u112	A respectable president. I'm gonna try to keep going on with my tour. She's a lot bigger. We need to have a financial programme with regard to a bill for financial management. The basic points to consider are the basics of making financial contributions. What I learned in my review is that various government goals are set out in financial programs and measures as well as governments. In some cases, though, the goals or actions change, either go away or change new ones, or just disappear completely. For example, it is the objective of the Environment Programme 1, the General Assembly, an increasing service for members of the Parliament. But in the budget bill, that goal is gone. It's not there to find any more. I wondered: This is the aim of action on increased expert services at Parliamentary Committees with a timetable for 2018 and 22022, but there is no action related to this objective, there is no law of law. I wondered what happened there. When you look at other things, there are other things. There are, for example. procedures to investigate means of reimbursement in tourism; visit coming and leaving expenses. That operation is gone. There's nothing to check it out anymore. There are many of these things that are hard to find, unless you look at both the budget and the budget. After all, under government law, the policy to appear in the budget, in the implementation, in the cost of measures, in financial matters is to be made up in the budget. There should not be a new course there, really. It would be natural to explain, perhaps, that the operation had just been completed, so it would not have to be financed. Then it would just be explained. Don't make it disappear without saying why, if it's not a policy change. If there is a change in policy, it is expected to wait until the next financial program, which would explain, but it would be very popular to get an explanation. They're missing. There was a lot of talk about one in the financial programme, and there's an update in the budget, there's this bickering of the decrease in income tax to lower levels, which is simply said: 1% decrease in the lower level of income taxes. It's not ambiguous, it's just said, during the season, this will decrease by 1%. But then at other locations in a financial program, it is said that a reduction in taxes results in a decrease of 1% in the lower income tax level. The problem is that there is nothing that corresponds to a 1% decrease in the lower income tax level except exactly that. You can say, it's 14 billion. In other words, the rate of taxation is up to 14 billion. A much greater magnitude of change can then be made than anything that corresponds to a 1% reduction in the lower income taxation level. The way this is said is of little importance. I'm not going to hang myself too much in the details, but this is more a suggestion on how better it is to make things clearer in the future. Moreover, since this was to occur in equal steps, even in the financial bill itself, this decline in tax should occur in equal steps. On the other hand, you can't puzzle it properly. The text suggests that the reduction in taxation in these funds is in the form of an increase in personality discount. About this 530 k. as shown. That is not one fourth of the 14 billion. It's one eighth or so. It's like I say, that slice of pizza that got lost somewhere yesterday. This is an example, I think, of many other things in the budget bill that doesn't show on the cards. The cost strategy is not being shown, not by government policies in a clear and measurable manner. They're hiding the cards, putting them up in the sleeve, giving one-eighth now, but not one-quarter, I think, in part, being out of the chicken interview coming up. I understand the negotiation technique to keep the cards in place so that they can have something in their sleeves to meet those involved. But at the same time, it is also a little dishonest. I'm saying a little dishonest, I'm not trying to exaggerate anything about it. It is said to do not do this equal step, that is not to be done. That's not honest. Simply like that. Unless the rest is somewhere else, this extra eight, there's also an extra tax loss. I can't find them. You might have to do a little more snooze your bill. But it's one of the problems we have a little bit, that we get the budget bill that's about four hundred and some pages, very shortly before 1st. It makes it possible for you not to read entirely through the bill in that you can make connections between the material from one subject to another, between the economic outlook and the economic fortunes of the financial programme, against the financial policy and the implementation of budgetary policies. You don't have time or perspective, these are about 800 pages that need to be added here. As the information grows, especially when it's not in the computer form, you have to read and take notes and connect it together in your brain and remember, it's just a lot less difficult than if you gave more time to do this. Then it would be 1st. Much deeper. It would have been more time for fieldkeeping and specialists in town to give us tips that we could better give to a minister, for example. Today and tomorrow. And to get better questions and better answers, clearer financial laws. It's supposed to be the goal. You shouldn't be afraid to have a clear budget. It's good to have a clear budget. But when we do it like this, when the budget comes out on short notice for 1. Um., some of us at the council are missing certain valuables of 1st. should be. As a result, she'll be more superficial. It might have some misunderstanding, but I might not have found the other half of the tax reduction. It could be. That's what I need to read the bill even better than I've done so far. I have not read it well enough to feel that I have read it well enough. I would like to read it much more and much better. It'll come. This is a specific example of how we use time or lack it to avoid a more precise discussion, so that we do not really need to show that the actions here are not costly. They are not costly because information is being concealed. They are not costly because there is no cost. It's hard to say. This is something we should know by the Generals. When I ask, why do I have to give you 100 million? must be able to explain it, then ministers must be here tomorrow, in the language field, able to answer questions. When I ask you, here's a raise, for example. in the tourism service, where there's a cutoff of 90 million, why are they giving them an increase of 90 million? Why am I giving them more than 2 billion in financial order? Is there something within the box that is actually overestimated or underestimated? What about your expenses? Yes, I have a good view of them here, 100 million, more. What are these temporary expenses? It should be extremely easy to answer, even. But for some reason it is not accessible. That's the point of what I think we need to do better. I have made this clear several times during recent discussions about financial, financial, and financial policies. I only see better text in the list of actions. [[The president calls.]] I see a little improvement. But I think that's more because there's more experience and more knowledge about making a bill than there is. We'll see in our next financial plan. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u113	Mr. President. It's not easy for a new senator to read the budget bill, I have to admit, not at all, to think I was a pretty big cop. But when I look at this whole thing, I wonder the most about what the State project is like, as if I knew a huge and active complexity of this bill, natural. When I read this bill, I ask myself various questions. We are 340 thousand in this country, and sometimes you wonder how much we need in this small country. How big is the size? Is there something simpler to do? I've been working in the county, so I realize it's not easy, it's no easy job, but when you read a bill like that, you still wonder about it. Is there some way that this can be made simpler? It's also a matter of economy, Mr. President, how we do this. You're talking about putting people in here asking for extra expenses for the others and these lawsuits. You're absolutely right, and I'm one of them, so I'm now guilty in that respect. But isn't there some practicality to find where it's so easy and easy to understand? There's an absolute number of committees and rooms and funds and all the teams that I'm not familiar with at all, even though I know some of them. All of these are very good subjects for which these offices and offices and funds work on, absolutely, the ones I know, and the rest probably. But I wonder: Can't you combine, combine, work more together? Can't you integrate this? I'll make myself, for example. fully aware that if you start a committee, there is a management committee, and there is an office, some housing, and possibly some employees. You have to print and photocopy and call, answer the phones, and send letters here and there. Isn't there something you can clean up? I was going to do a lot more before I went up here to the pool, but I looked up these funds that are in the budget bill. This is not a complete count at all, it's just what I put on paper a few minutes ago. I'm going to read this, with president's permission: Iceland's equal funds. People's health fund. The pension fund for the elderly. Education fund. A strudel fund. Greenland Fund. ISI travel fund. Sports Fund. It's an ice-cream fund. It's a yοur yοur yοur yοur yοur yοur yοur A labour fund of independent scholars. Music audio collection fund. Music fund. Library Fund of Authors Art fund. Icelandic music export fund. Movie fund. It's an artist's savings fund. House peace fund. An ancient treasure. A collection fund. No doubt the best funds and best institutions. I'll continue, Mr. President: Climate Fund. It's a treasure. Workout fund. Power fund. Agricultural funds. A research fund to increase the value of a marine prisoner. Technological Development Fund. Woodfund. Refundment fund. A fund of parishes. Church's Fund. Iceland's weekend fund. Research fund. A telecommunication fund. Sea for herring research. A treasure fund for the fishing road. It's a tourist position fund. Fishing Fund. The Environmental Fund of Marine Reindeer. Fund of salvation. That's a high 50s. Perhaps many of them have government, housing, and employees. Isn't there something we can simplify here?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u114	A respectable president. I'm here at the end of this discussion, which has been more extensive and in chapters just fun. There have been debates about important matters and a good basis for the process. I'm not going to go far deeper into the subject here. I'm going to allow myself to say a few words about the form and say that tomorrow there will be a legal case for each minister. This arrangement is relatively new. I'm just thinking that we really need to plan so we can get it right into the night, but fine. In fact, no one has complained a lot about working long hours here. But I think there would be something to do to get a little more lively and more discussion on these key issues. At the council, we may have a very long discussion, even as we do here for just a whole day, and then we're going back to try to start life and fun in the following day. I don't have a solution for this, but there's a possibility there could be a way to combine this more, a story for the budget and the entrance of a individual professional minister, which could only bring back to life the discussion. Not that she was something impossible. All classes have had the opportunity to address viewpoints. It has given a fine width for this 1st. which, however, is not coming to an end today. Then I'd like to complete the discussion, and I'd like to conclude that in the Generals Work Programme, 3rd is expected to do so. for the budget of November 22, which would be, if not my failure, a new estimate of how fast we handle the budget, or perhaps not necessarily how fast it is but at least how early we were putting up the budget. Sometimes the debate has continued until Christmas and even until Christmas, but I just want to make sure that it is very important that there has been a solid agreement, which I hope was the basis for this proposal, solidarity on the presiding committee, to try to complete the budget in the third week of November. It is very important in many ways, since there is so much that hangs around the budget and the annual conventions. We in the Ministry of Economics will do all we can to support the work that begins after this discussion at the Committee to ensure the natural progress of the matter. But I know there's gonna be a lot of work on the committee and a lot of work to take place in order for this to be practical. I just want to do it specifically. I think this is both ambitious and important. It would be a great improvement if we were to succeed in doing this. It seems to me it's best for me to stop talking now, but I'm going to try to squeeze it out of my neck that's failing, that, as a matter of fact, I feel that the budget and the presentation of everything that concerns public finance are getting better every year. I hope it's still going on for a while. We are still learning to do this new work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u115	A respectable president. Just a minute here at the end. Would it be possible to obtain financial programs and budgets earlier so that they are not just right at 1 Corinthians 15: 33? ... awrong.? That would make a transformation of 1st. I think there would be a solution to the problem that the secretary of finance brought up here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-13-3.u116	A respectable president. Yeah, we've been over this in the past few years. During the time I've been at the Ministry of finance, this has often been the case. One thing is certain that the budget work cannot be completed and that the budget bill can be printed much sooner. In this case, the printing bill was only due to the evening before the contributions, the first copies. But if we were to aim for only a change of chronological order, something would be able to speed it up. I can't see in myself anything special because I can't believe that the budget bill would be made public before it was submitted to the General Assembly. I think it'd be quite done by working, men getting better prepared. I know this not only as a financier but from the board and from the management and management position, both as a minister and as a senator, that the bill is to be taken directly from the press and then taken into discussion that is supposed to be something on the bottom. So at least I I can declare that I'm quite ready to make a change. In recent years, I have been just trying to learn how this is happening elsewhere. I understand that in Denmark the bill was published quite a long time before the assembly, thinking about giving the government side and other opportunities to form some opinion about it. But then I was with the Norwegian minister of finance and his leading officials earlier this week. She was here to see us on Monday. Then I found out that they don't show any of the budget till it's submitted to the council, not even the government or the media. [[The president calls.]] So it's the way it's being done in this other place.
