ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u1	The president considers an agreement that may last longer than the Senate today, if necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u2	The decision is to make an hour-long break between the hours. In 1920, this is mainly due to the committee's use of products.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u3	There have been letters from the social and equal minister and secretary of state requesting an appointment to provide written answers to inquiries on one side. 376, on the procreation of people with developmental impairment, from the Birks Bjarkey of Olsen Gunnarsdóttir and on the icicle. 64, of the EU energy package, Community monitoring agencies and the EEA Convention, from Óli Björn Kárason.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u4	Borist has received a letter from the proconsul of the Independence Party that Guður Þórðarson can't do any next session. So today, on Monday, December 10, takes place at Arms 1 of the Independent Party in the Northern Republic of Reykjavík, Albert Guðmundsson. He has previously taken his place at the General Assembly and is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u5	Today, on Monday, December 10, the vice president of the United States Congress received a letter saying that Ágúst Augustus Ólafur Ágústsson would not be able to attend next week. Since Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson, 3rd Parliament of the South Court of Reykjavík, has decided for personal reasons to accept free leave from council work from December 10, 2018, through January 14, 2018, I request that the 3rd vice - soldier of the South Court of Reykjavík, Ellert B. Schram, arrive at the time of the General Assembly. A guard on a list of the districts has announced ahead of time. Sincerely, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Vice President of the Group of Group of the United States. At the request of the president, the national government has assembled and issued a bill for Ellert B. Schramur. At the same time, a board of administrations and monitoring has been arranged to discuss the stock market.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u6	Mr. President. As mentioned in the case of the highest. The President's commission and surveillance committee has assembled to review Ellert B. Schramur's campaign from the national government. In agreement with the Commission, they failed to make comments to the theme letter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u7	The Commission and monitoring committee recommends the approval of the approved convention and considered it approved without a vote if no protests are moved. Ellert B. Schram has once sat at the General Assembly and is invited to serve again. Hv. A senator is familiar with houses here, but he took his first place in the Council of the Isles of 1971.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u8	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Health, Minister of Education and Culture, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Sea diffusion and Agriculture Ministers and District Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u9	Mr. President. Last week the Supreme Court sentenced damage to the United States because it was not permitted to abstain from hunting experience in terms of the distribution of macrovota by law. The Icelandic people may be living with billions of losses, and their feelings may be that their possession of the sea resources is less certain than ever. Perhaps the judgment is not particularly surprising, and of course it is to be respected. It reflects, however, that we are still decades after the fishing system was put on the present form in an argument about this and, especially, what attracts limited quality. I also find this to be a reflection of the lack of a discussion on fishing costs from the arrangement and from the basic question: What is the righteous part of the nation's fishing resources? It is clear that Deloitte's assessment of damage caused by the Regulation is very high and not all of us have returned to the grave. If I understand correctly, this is the same party that won the basis for a lower fishing fee. That's why I'm asking the highest. The prime minister may have wondered if there is any harmony. Then I ask a minister if it doesn't consider it normal to extend the present law to us, as was done in spring, and to try to make more peace. Then we can examine the context rules and fishing costs and ensure temporary agreements that are agreed on by most categories. Of course, it would be necessary to establish an acceptable resource directive in a constitution, but like the highest. Minister knows it's shown hunting, not given. Finally, I'd like to ask a minister how she envisions that the cost of the sentence is financed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u10	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Clearly, the Supreme Court has spoken, and the last word in this matter, actually turned to the court's judgment on the same matter. Hv. A senator is here asking a few questions related to this matter. First of all, I'd like to say, "Hv. A senator asks how this will affect the fishing bill that is in this room for release. My answer is that this judgment is about the distribution of resources and, therefore, a fishing system. It's not about the pressures of hunting fees. We can disagree or agree on whether the right was right back then, 2012, separate the fishing system, i.e. It's a law and a hunting law. It was the decision of the left movement that the green supply was made at that time in the government, and I believe that it was the right decision to separate it at that time. I don't think this judgment has any effect on how we deliver the hunting bill, which I believe was well prepared and is about ensuring a fair share in the resource industry. We can debate the percentage, 33% plus recognizable pressure, or any other figure, but I think that's a fair way. Of course, when it comes to the law about the fishing system, this judgment must be addressed to the future by a change of law. This distribution was at its time determined by the Regulation, i.e. macroil was given by regulations and the law was not specifically altered. Of course, the court calls for us to cross the legal environment. Hv. A senator also asks for financial losses, but this is not the case. I don't know where it is, and I know it's the highest. A marine and agricultural minister also responding has decided to call on experts to review the next steps on the matter, of course, because it is important that very reasonable matters be kept in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u11	Mr. President. Yes, it is true that we have debated the identity of the hunting fees of propentan. This is 33%, but the government's time as the highest. The result was 60 percent, so it might be considered. Again, I ask how to finance this sentence. I have an idea, topv. Prime Minister, because we now have these fishing fees to issue the project in 2015, which is no less than the best year in the history of the project. Now, as we begin to lose weight and, as I said earlier, the best year in the history of the project, I suggest that we take in what we have justified for one year, as I said before, the best year of the year in the history of the project, and use it at least in part to pay for this damage that has been done.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u12	Mr. President. The most important thing to me in this case about what has been going on in the discussion of the case after the death of the sentence this weekend is that there is no reason to question the rules of the fishing system that the resource is the national share. There is nothing in the judgment that gives reason to say that there is no doubt about it. On the other hand, I'm gonna say the word with what. A senator in his previous inquiry. It is very important that we gather the resource regulations in a constitution to prepare these laws more clearly. I don't think this judgment would undermine it. The sentence may primarily fall, as I have been reported, on the non-law fishing law given at the time of the time. A seafaring minister was the Þorsteinn chief of Pálsson's son. So it has been a long time since the law was given. Therefore, I don't think that the court would put any doubt on the matter of financing. [[The president calls.]] Then I'd like to reiterate that I don't feel it right to mix up discussions about the fishing system and the laws on the pressures of hunting costs. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u13	A respectable president. During the last days of the Council, roads are being added throughout the country into a transport program. Pays for all three stock routes out of the capital, expenditures on all tunnels, expenditures on various projects across the country. Instead, construction will be accelerated, and even new projects will be added. It can be estimated that the cost of paying the road will be about 2.5-5.5 billion dollars. This year, depending on how many new projects are added. A year ago, a secretary of transportation said that there was no pretext for major routes from Reykjavík, but since then a minister seems to have changed his mind. I'd like to ask the highest. A secretary of transportation on two things: Why is the solution now a worldwide challenge? How does a minister feel that the basic change in the transport system of the Icelanders is not being properly treated but is being pushed through the Parliament during the last week of the autumn Summit, with a change in the development of more environmental and transport committees in cooperation with the transport secretary? Is this in harmony with the Mosaic Law covenant, that all plans for a longer future will need to be done in more consultation and with better communication?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u14	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. First, I want to correct what I've had to say a lot of times. A year ago, I said there were no roadside gates in the government covenant. I would have spoken against them, they would not be in the government covenant, and therefore they would not be on my schedule. However, this does not change the fact that taxation has always been possible. There's been a hell of a tunnel model like, e.g. We were doing very well, and now we ended in a successful way, as they had said in the Council. It was said that these laws should last 20 years, and when the payout was completed, the tunnel would be returned to the nation. That's what we did. Why Do We Need to Reap Costs? Yes, it is. Because in the government's action programme on climate, energy exchange, we have been assured that the next year's fuel and diesel income will be rapidly decreasing. The money we earn will not be enough for the roads we generally accept. Today, there are 1,718 billion, dropped between 25 and 2025 years, and so may be 9 billion by 2025 - and I don't think anyone will accept it. With the time pressure, I'll tell you what. A senator who is an emissary of the environment and transport committee has had a lot of work in the whole of autumn. These plans were originally introduced in the transport program. It was said that there would be a good way to consider other factors, such as those who have been viewed by the committee. I know that in conversations with all the people who have been many, and at a number of committee meetings, and in discussions on the Committee, it has occurred, and this conversation has taken place. If it really works out now, it would be great because the four - year plan is running out at the end of this year. It is very important for Vega to have a measure of appreciation in its plans and design and exports, including to achieve as much management and export as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u15	A respectable president. The Environment and Transport Committee has established that although there would be some major changes due to road costs or road omission, or whatever the result would not have a major impact on at least the next two years, 2019 and 2020, on performances. Therefore, there appears to be insufficient effort and should be able to complete a transport plan as it now looks, and to take the larger discussions with the tax and proper therapy. But because of the highest. At the end of the second question, I would like to add a minister of the environment: Where is the city line inside each of them with a pack of charges and other items? What will be its priority in the changing transport program?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u16	A respectable president. At my Ministry Department's Constitution, there's a matter in the spring council, in March, where we would discuss a society that would deal with this. Here we are discussing a long - term controversy proposal, and it is true. A senator refers to, it is not clever to be moving extensively around 2019 and 2020, simply because the road structure has gone far into that process. On the other hand, the committee can set up a program, which is a synonym, and it can include. This means that a minister is obliged to bring a bill, as it were, to do in a few months when we can better see this picture. I think it's inevitable in view of the fact that if everything goes as planned, it's going to need a new course for the next winter, where we're walking in all the things we've been doing. Regarding the city line, it is clear that it enters the first 2019 and 2020, followed by a very clear text of what goes on. In September we signed a declaration of will, and this is the conclusion of this group that returned from mid - November. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u17	A respectable president. A recent article that I read in one issue says that a survey conducted in Britain was conducted to determine the effects of poverty on the life expectancy of women. Britain's university survey 2001◯2016 made it clear that there are many deaths among the British who live in poverty, especially among women. The difference between women who live in poverty and those who live prosperously is about seven years, and the gap increases. Women living in poverty live on average 77.8 years in Britain. The more wealthy have an average life span of 86.7 years. I'm afraid I have to do that poll here. They need to check this out because I know about people who don't go to doctors because they can't afford them. It begins with cleaning up the home, then it is fed, and medical care is not priority. These are very striking numbers, so I ask them the highest. Health Minister and if this was checked here and if it's anything different in this country than in the United Kingdom. I think we need to take a good look at it because it's a serious matter if both men and women have only less men than women, can't seek medical help because of poverty. They're not gonna get hurt.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u18	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. First, it is to say that Rúnar Vilhjálmsson has made special observations on whether and who in Iceland, men and women, changed their economics, were refusing medical and medical treatment. It reminds me that the latest figures in this regard may be five years old, something like that. I had a meeting with him during the days when I wished for this to be done again, as well as a review of other aspects of health care, as well as how people experience the ministry and what they can do better. I agree with what. A senator for poverty is one of the most serious ills we have to deal with. It is, in fact, that according to the UN worldwide goals, it is the sole goal of working against poverty. I take it very seriously in my office and do it primarily by helping to reduce patient payment. In the following year, we have 400 million to play even more to reduce the patient's income as well as to specifically reduce the costs of dental care for the elderly and disability that are also for the treatment of poverty, i.e. to prevent them from doing so as we can that poverty will prevent people from enjoying health care and medicine. I'd like to mention, too, because of what. A member of the United States speaks specifically about sex, that it is of utmost importance that we are providing more medical information than we have been doing in relation to gender. There are large variables that are clearly visible, and there are different genders. In particular, I would like to mention the ongoing study, attracting the women's tragic history and the association of traumatic events with health and health later in life.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u19	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. Another factor in this study was that studies indicate that the deaths of the poor are often illness and disease that is easily prevented. They are dying of disease that would have been easy to cure if they had turned into medical treatment. For my part, it is a serious matter if some are unable to seek medical help because of poverty, and they suffer so much pain that they die of diseases that would be very easy to cure if they returned. It says itself, and I have become aware of it, that among those who live in poverty today, medical services are not at first, not in second, and not third. First, second and third place is to survive, get on and on.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u20	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator once again for keeping this matter so tight on the program because it is of enormous importance. The Senator here refers to a general social situation, as it were, making it possible for people to live by setting health - care priorities below the list if poverty was not a problem. The situation is now that housing costs are far beyond what can be considered normal. There are a large number of Icelanders who live under unsatisfactory conditions that are physically hazardous and therefore affect everyday life and thus the quality of life and the possibility of maintaining health and building it up if it is not ideally chosen. I'd like to say under this team that I'm considering the best way to use these 400 million in 2019 and I hope to report it to the council very soon. My primary objective is to level access to health care regardless of the economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u21	V.E.G. President. Last week I served as a public speaker during the meeting program and raised a case on the approval of the United Nations Global Conduct for Safe, Orderly, and Regular Migration. The purpose of my talk was to bring up a discussion of sensitive topics, a discussion that needs to be discussed. The conference is going on today and tomorrow at Marrakess, Morocco and Iceland's representatives, including Ragnhildur Arnljótsdóttur, the Ministry of Presidency, is there to approve for Iceland. The experience in other countries teaches us that if the discussion is not taken up, there is the danger of getting the discussion in the hands of people who are promoting extremeism, which is more often than not based on prejudice. In that area, she becomes ugly and does nothing good. I'm not ready to skip the discussion there. The Icelandic people are small and can't handle that. It is important that you succeed. We welcome the 100th anniversary of sovereignty, and the unity, identity, and independence of the nation are precious. We need to protect the baseline value of our community, which, in fact, has to be built. of freedom and dignity. The whole nation and most nations have seen reason to set matters straight. The agreement is hipolitic and has caused cleavage, to form in the Belgium government. Some European countries put in advance and other decisions about consent until the content of the agreed agreement is resolved. Clearly, the expense of participation in such projects can be high, and the well - being system can be tested with endurance. I have two questions to the highest. Prime Minister. What discussion has been given, and in what ways? Second, what are the priorities for the Iceland Convention, and on what basis are they preparatory?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u22	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's request for the participation in Iceland's international transport release It is based on a discussion that took place two years ago at the UN General Assembly when a special U.S. summit approved a so - called New York Declaration on the issues of refugees and passengers. As a result, two approved, one on the issues of refugees and the other on the issues of passengers and the resolution or approval discussed in Marrakesh now turns toward the endors. There are estimated to be some 258 million passengers in the world, and there have never been more. As I said, the approved article is now being discussed on the basis of that declaration. Hv. A senator asks where this matter was being discussed. On the other hand, there has been a discussion at the national level and on the other hand, was introduced to the International State Department of State, which was last introduced there at the end of June this year. Thus, the Foreign Affairs Committee has been kept informed. It is the position of the Icelandic government to accept this agreement, to support the case, and there is no approval that is not within the current legal framework and that is carried out in Iceland. Its final version, as it happens to the Council of Marrakesh, does not call for a legal adjustment in Iceland. In line with the government's emphasis on human rights and the current Importer's implementation programme, this has been carried out by the Ministry of Justice, State Department, and Department of Social Affairs. Iceland, however, will follow the example of Denmark, Norway, Britain, and other countries, and the review of Iceland's agreements, which include: That we don't believe that our approval will have the effect of changing the law in Iceland. It is important that every country has an example of its own immigrants'legislation and policy in the affairs of immigrants.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u23	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister is eager to know the answers. The issue is thus growing that it is not legally binding, and it was presented in the case of prime minister. It must be surprising, then, that things that are not binding must be put in advance. You must add questions to the fact that the United Nations, which we are part of and who have previously participated in cooperation with that institution, has to be made special, not just because it does not establish laws, but because it requires that the nations answer in this way. Why do nations in the European Union refuse to sign such agreements? Are they somewhere else than we are here in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u24	Mr. President. I'm gonna pray. A senator not to ask me to answer for the European Union, for I just can't do that. But I can answer for the value of the current government and have been in the presence of a people in Iceland's policy of these matters, which is exactly what has been approved on the United Nations ever since the Declaration of Human Rights was adopted. It is 70 years old today, most likely the most important statement adopted by the United Nations organization to accept the understanding that human rights are universal. It is, in fact, amazing that it has been achieved together on that resolution in its own time. I'm not sure that there's any connection with that statement today. This agreement is based on the very baseline values we have held in honor in our 100 - year - old history about democracy, about human rights, and about diversity and to celebrate the fact that in Iceland there are now 100 languages not one of the languages spoken 100 years ago. That this agreement is not legal binding does not prevent every government from reviewing its interpretation of the agreement. It's a ritual, and it says in the press release published on the State Department's website that it's also going to be Iceland. [[The president calls.]] I think it's right, however, to correct what happened in my previous answer, this approval doesn't require legal adjustments in this country, but it's about ensuring the rights of a group that's never been more numerous and should be enjoyed by normal human rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u25	Madam President. In the recent week, a judgment in the Supreme Court failed to pass the operation of hunting warrants in the macrotype that had been used in 2011-2014 could not hold valid laws on the control of fishing or on fish fishing outside Iceland's jurisdiction. Clearly, it is not only an enormous amount of money that divides billions of dollars if it is not worth tens of billions of dollars; it is also clear that the judgment has to do with various factors in fishing management and the arrangement that have been under way in recent years. There will be no more court order than that governments are severely restricted to the distribution of fishing sources, even when there is a limited fishing experience on new species within the legal record. Hence, the judgment naturally raises questions about where there is real custody of this common resource. V.E.G. Marine and agricultural ministers have declared that they consider the review of the law necessary following this decision. Clearly, the arrangements for the fishing regime were illegal. However, whether the arrangement that has been conducted in recent years also conflicts with law or not is unclear. In view of the most important interests involved, I would like to ask the highest. The following questions are: Take care of the highest. Ministers conduct cross-cutting consultations with review of law and regulations on this matter? Does Ministers believe that the current distribution arrangements also conflict with the standards of fishing management? The judgment refers only to the distribution and arrangement taken in 2011-2014. In 2011, if a reexamination of the preparation of the fishing regime for macroil, how does a minister feel that fishing experience will follow in 2011?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u26	A respectable president. Thanks for the inquiry. First came out of nowhere. A senator felt that the nation's custody of the hunting rights had really been seriously challenged. In this regard, I would like to again testify to the current law that the exploiters of Iceland are the European Union's share and that there would be no ownership or some irrefutable custody of the nation. This is in the law and on the basis of the law of the Council of Human Rights to the Ministers of Rights. The Supreme Court's judgment was about nothing more than the fact that the distribution of the seafaring minister by 2011 failed to uphold the legislation established by the General Assembly. There's nothing more complicated than a minister's not doing the law, and then we have to clean it up. The questions we had. According to what we have to deal with in the weeks to come, this is the nature of the matter. It's obvious, and we have a project waiting for us. I call attention to the fact that this judgment fell on Thursday. This is a project done since 2011. It's a complicated solution to get something on the fishing board at mackerel. First of all, we need to review the case with a state lawyer, over the grounds of the court, and that's what we intend to do, if I recall correctly, tomorrow. As a result, I will put down some kind of work, in the way we handle this project, but number one, two, and three I think that we need our legal advice on the field of damage rights, rights to property, as we consider possible options for the government to wind down the practice that the Supreme Court has now condemned illegally.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u27	Mr. President. I didn't really get the answer to any question. What, then, would be appropriate if we were to comment specifically on this: Would a minister have a specific cross - laity approach? Here is a big opinion, and this, of course, has quite a lot to say about what custody we have of this common resource, because even here, as there is a new kind of Icelandic law in which a limited fishing experience was available, it is in fact believed that there is some sort of resource involved in a meeting that finds the form of this or the indigenous setting for hunting experience. It must therefore raise the questions: What is the scope of current legislation in which we successfully regulate fishing distribution? Therefore, I reiterate my question about the transnational discussion. It is also clear that changes will occur in which only the fishing experience of the year referred to, in 2008/2010, are the main products of the country that will benefit from this. I think that one of the largest productions in the country, Samherji and related productions, has about the fifth of the current fishing clearances and realizes that this company will then benefit greatly by providing this to be reassigned to this fishing experience. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. A minister has taken the initiative to inform his interest in that company and told him that he would take a special look at his qualifications regarding such matters would arise. [[The president calls.]] That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Does he think this is true in this case?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u28	The president asks why. Senator, watch out for deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u29	A respectable president. There are many parts of the talk. Senator. Wait a minute. A senator just to stay calm. It's been through many places. A senator, and when he calls the arrangement under which the distribution of macrofilms of indigenous warrants, I draw attention. So a senator saw that the arrangement that the Supreme Court judges and concludes on Thursday was placed in the then marine emissary, the Þorsteinn of Pálsson, whom I expect to be. The master of a good one-time knowledge. Hence, each body of Congress was formed, in the entire article. That is the arrangement that was arranged in a great deal of consultation under the leadership of this qualified politician. A senator believes that there is a native structure. The debate over fishing management can never be based on such claims. This is a careful rule that the minister failed to respect, and we need to take some action thereafter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u30	Mr. President. Everything else. The global acidification of the sea is a serious fact; there is no doubt about it. The more the sea looks like seawater, the worse it will be. In cold waters, acidification is faster than hot and affects large and small organisms, e.g. any person with high levels of calcium. The acidification will go through the whole chain of life if it reaches a long way in the next few decades. The North Atlantic and the North Atlantic are major seas and Iceland has a sea area of seven times the area. Exploitation of acidification in this country has continued for over three decades, and it has shown great vision. There, both the National Institutes of Marine Research and the University of Iceland have cooperated. I think it's very important to improve that. It contains the international teamwork on the scene of northern and northern cooperation or international cooperation or whatever. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: What is it about these materials, and this international cooperation in the acidification industry or international cooperation? The acidification can have and may already have an impact on the Icelandic seabed, where the assessment needs to be processed, with different stage shots for a variety of acidifications. Then I ask the highest. Minister: Don't you need a schedule for this assessment? How might this be done?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u31	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It is true in his case that in the 1930's a study in the North Atlantic has been conducted on non-biological carbon in the sea and as a result of the acidification of the sea. These are probably one of the longest consecutive measurements we feel in the world on that phenomenon, so our Oceanographic Institute has been fully monitoring this case. I see it, and I know that it is closely cooperated with both a university that stands on the front side of the ocean and the west as well as with international institutions in that topic. Like what? There are many international cooperations in progress. It's urgent, like a rough one. Forecasts: Improving research and, for example As a result and as a result, this law was included in the Treaty of the Government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, which requires the development of scientific and marine research. For one thing, a Merition Institute has been trying to expand its relationships and to further cooperation. In this regard, I'd like to mention a U.S. agency called Woods Hile, which has been contacted by the Oceanographic Institute, and I don't really know at this point what's out of it. Surely, we need to, like a dog. A senator mentioned, to keep up with the changes we've seen in the ocean around Iceland, and our key agency there is an Marine Research Institute. [[The president calls.]] I may find out what we should look at in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u32	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. And, yes, there's a lot of research to be done. Sometimes it is said that scientists are constantly asking for more research, but in this case it is very important. As I observed earlier, the acidation goes faster in cold waters than hot. Only about this assessment that I was advertising for. It has been shown in my conversations with both American scientists and Icelandic that it is urgent to think about it even now. Different forms of acidification can be developed and then tried to find out what it might look like. You can think of this doctorial project in connection with a university or an international doctor's project among a few experts but also in putting down a committee of experts, Icelandic and international, to find out the truth.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u33	A respectable president. I agree with those words as a matter of course. A senator here has the need to make this assessment. There may be different ways to handle it. Let me be the first to address the subject of discussing how we can do this best. I am not an expert in this field, and I rely on counseling and knowledge from the Institute of Marine Research and Science. It's a good thing to record, because it's obviously a major change that seems to be going at a faster pace than the people planned here a relatively few years ago. I'd like to mention, though, that there are several factors involved and that have been worked and done on a lot of work that can benefit us in this environment, such as the one that turns. to the report of the Scientific Committee on the climate change that I expect. A senator knows. I'm open to any possibility of taking this matter further, and I'm glad that I can cooperate with it. A senator will do the rest.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u34	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest. A secretary of transportation for the reasons that the actions of Eaglenes Road have been drawn as closely as possible, and whether a minister is acceptable to them to be drawn even further. As a result, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he does not consider it important to reflect on transport policies, many of the largest rural areas in the southwestern corner. Eaglenes Road, on the other hand, is to travel from over the far road to Breinholt Road. This procedure was carried out in the last transport program, 2011◯2022, but it has been delayed in a new transport program and is not planned until 2024. Many have appeared, and now the last in a harsh letter to the mayor of Kopavogs, Ármann Kr.. Ólafsson, sent to the council of the Southwestern district last month, that this procedure is in the word's full sense vital, in which waiting hours in Kopavog's upper settlements fail to meet the requirements for transportation and fire. A traffic through the Lakeland has become too high, and the road of Bretholst Road has long been broken, covering 12,000 cars a day with the appropriate delays. A respectable president. Here at the southwestern corner of the country, there are quite a number of people who pay taxes and duties and choose their representatives to be served at the General Assembly, but it seems, at times, that there may be some change of outcome when it comes to the mobilization of funds for road work, as did the marine conquests. In this regard, we might remind ourselves of the situation that has resulted from the rise of a nation's largest nation course, Smokejanes Way, which is passing through their town. I think it's a widespread feeling in these people of the largest rural society that they're subversive, unless it seems that they're now most comfortable at a car to allow them to pay themselves for road repairs - not roadways, at the highest level. A minister is very opposed to the past, but to the tribute.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u35	A respectable president. I thank you for this fine inquiry and for the opportunity to discuss this important road. One of my questions. The senator is the reason why he was so drawn to fix it, and now he is becoming even more drawn. The big answer is that Eaglenes Road and plan there have been no more delay than many other plans around the country. It is not acceptable, however, for them to move further, and I'll come in a little better afterwards. For the declaration of what? A senator who lives in this area, the largest part of the country's territory, experienced that they are not getting any of the money given for transport, it is best to recall that a contract made between the state and the rural communities in the capital area of 2012, although it has been agreed between the state and the Union in the capital area, i.e. SSH and State, the need to record that deal. If I remember correctly, I'd be sitting with a party crew. On the other hand, in the mayor, even as the mayor or his substitute at that time, and on the other hand, in the government. The deal was that there would be no major projects for 10 years, i.e. In 2012/2022, against the government's spending a billion dollars on public transportation. That's a contract the state has made. However, we are going to break it down one - sided by starting the project in 2019. It can make you happy. A senator. This may be the case with the public's experience in the area, which is based on this agreement that the public would have to ask the local government about, i.e. Why they made this contract until 10 years old. The fact is, however, that Arnarnes has been working on the past few years. The end of the road has been reached by the Smokey Way to Fifhvamm Road. Like what? A senator came on the section from Stepna Road to the Breinholtway, which has even been the case. There is a disagreement between the local community, Reykjavíkurburg and Kópavogs, on the exact implementation of whether or not there should be a misdirection. This is one of the factors causing delays in performance. Suggestion to transport provided a budget of 1.5 billion for the project during the next five years, which is sufficient to complete this project. When a projection projection plan was made that will be financed, as far as possible. A senator came in, showed that this project is just one of those who are highly regarded in that regard. So hopefully we will be able to speed up this period of activity considerably. I really hope that it will, but this, of course, depends on the end of a transport plan for the council. Regarding transport policies, whether it reflects the fact that many of the largest rural areas are in the southwest corner, I believe it is important that transport policies reflect the emphasis of rural society on the southwest corner, as well as, of course, other rural communities elsewhere. Have been a few paces in the one year I've been a member of the Ministry. In September, that's it. Signed the Minister on behalf of the Icelandic government, and the mayor and mayor of the capital area on behalf of the local Union in the capital area, SSH, wanted a declaration of transport debates in the capital area. Based on the fact that the results of the discussion would be part of the long-term government plan until 2033, the next financial programme from 202020-2024, and the international investment plans, in advance of the approval of the Generals and the local government. The Declaration states that the priority of the budget, funding and implementation of projects will be carried out in a joint task group. The capital area and the rest of its capital area will be watched for all transport. The basis for these events included provide suggestions for the head of the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs, the rural areas in the capital area, and the Roadmaker for improving transport in the capital area from February 2018. There is this ten - year contract that I mentioned earlier about experiments on improved public transportation, the regional structure of the capital area, 2015-52040, the capital area 2040, and other data that benefit the discussion. In November, the Control Team, which worked on the project, provided some updated proposals that have already been introduced to the Council's Environment and Transport Committee, which is now being discussed. Including to address when the city line can begin and the public transport between 2019 and 2020, and then an agreement to adopt the agreement from 2012/2022, which has led to small implementations in these areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u36	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Andri Thorsson's divinity for his inquiry, and he agrees with his appeal to the highest degree. The secretary of transport to reassign transport plans to carry out Arinnes Road projects. As indicated by what. A senator has long had the urgent need to make the move, since it is a matter of safety for thousands of people living in the area. The local people have personally stressed this to elected representatives, but the local government has also pointed it out with great weight over the past few years and has taken the case to both us and the Ministry, making me the highest priority. A minister to the honor of these projects. With regard to the prerogative tax in his inquiry, it is a political decision that we must also take time to talk about, for it is a large and dramatic part of pressing forward towards transport projects. [[The president calls.]] Then it must be discussed within the council wall.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u37	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðmundur Andri Thorsson's query. Thank you, too, the highest. Ministers of the answers, and they are concerned about the construction of Eagle Road. How could a decision be made to postpone such an important project? Well, according to the Supreme Opportunity plan. As planned, a minister should begin 2024 instead of 2019. The actions of Eaglenes Road are crucial to the safety of more of the people living here on the southwest corner. Eaglenes Road will make traffic easier and, therefore, increase the safety of public road users, all of which are more important. I recently attended a meeting with the fireman of the capital area. The situation is very serious, as has previously been seen. It is unacceptable and dangerous, since firemen and medical agents cannot be placed in place at the time the Agency has defined as an established time of response. Of course, Kopavogians and Garth make a surprise for a minister's decision. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u38	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The divinity of Andri Thorsson for this inquiry. This is a very necessary road. He's just one step in trying to reduce at least the kind of dam that always develops in times of stress. It's kind of incomprehensible that this road is not a top priority, that it's not going to work out just one, two, and three. As he mentioned in the Southwestern district, we have a refugee route by the Sea of Uryrakots and by it. It is used, and now it has come over the Eagle's and refugee rocks to get past the Kopavogsen. People are always looking for a way out, but at the same time, they're missing the surface, they were in there, they've been drawing it, but somehow it disappeared. [[The president calls.]] That's the kind of solution we need to solve these issues, so you don't always sit in cars in times of stress.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u39	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The divinity of Thorsson Thorson for this request for transportation in the capital area, including Through Eaglenes Road. V.E.G. The minister of transportation, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, took care of the situation and explained their situation very well. In many areas the need is clear, but as noted in the case of others. The members of the council here are not merely making easy transportation on Eaglenes Road from day to day but a tremendous amount of security on the people. That's why I'm especially happy for what's been said in the grandest case. A secretary of transportation, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson's son, to seek out a way to complete the chapter that extends from the Rhepway to that of the Britishholst Road, with new programmes that will put this project first in order to speed it up.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u40	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Andri Thorsson's divinity for bringing up this important subject. It is not by chance, Mr. President, that members of Congress who may consider themselves to be members of the Council of Kopavogs are largely involved in the public talk and discuss this matter in particular because the matter is urgent and has long been discussed in the rural government of Kopavogur and, in fact, at the council. It's kind of amazing that such a project is not too much smart because those who know know know know the 90° turn that is now on the Stepway, which is, in fact, completely uncool that no more accidents have occurred than there have been. I'd love to. A minister and a General would find ways to correct this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u41	A respectable president. It's hard to make a brief comment in such a big and important matter, but this is what I want to say: I appreciate what a minister came in earlier, of course it's necessary to look outside the box and speed up big and important projects. Then I look especially at the capital area, but I know they're elsewhere. I must, however, take this opportunity and address the project as the highest. A minister mentioned, an experimental project on the growth of public transport, included postponing certain major projects in the capital area. The eagle road was not one of those projects, for it was on schedule. It was never part of the agreement that the road would be postponed. I'll celebrate it again, and I'll be happy to hear it again. The environment and transport committee to deal with this now because we all know that this road is extremely important. At the same time, there is reason to view the agreement made on subsidies on public transportation in the capital area and throughout the country. But remember, public transportation is not a legal task for rural society. In every area around us, it is a common duty to maintain a powerful public transportation by the State and the local community. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u42	Mr. President. I'll start by thanking you. paritaprevir Thorsson, the son of Thors, for bringing up the matter of this important matter. I think we're going to cry because for decades the capital area has been a kind of elbow child on transportation. The growth in this area has not been fully understood. The population has increased dramatically, the number of cars has increased, the number of apartments has increased. All of this has created a problem that is so great that we fail to see how we have put these things behind us and is yet another example of what we often lack long - term thoughts about our affairs. We hope that this improvement will be done, and we will learn to plan long - term and priorities where the need is most urgent. And there is a greater need here in the capital area.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u43	A respectable president. The discussion of this important transport process is one of the exposés of the general situation in the country. In many areas, the shoe is affected, and we see that all over the country, here in the capital area and much more, projects that have not been successful because of the conditions that exist, primarily in financing. This is a huge project for the nation, and therefore the Environment and Transport Committee of the Parliament is now trying to break a magazine in the transport discussion so that there will be a real campaign for transport. For a long time, there have been discussions that we need to look beyond the box, develop a methodology that allows us to make more room for something big. I hope there's something going on, a respectable president, that this council now gives it to the Icelandic nation for Christmas that such an effort can begin, that this ball can start to roll with all seriousness. It's in our hands to finish it. [[The president calls.]] This is the key to taking much greater and better steps in the years ahead than we live and have lived in the past few years.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u44	President. In this discussion, which I appreciate. For a senator, the fact that I believe all of us are fully aware of is crystal. She's probably more familiar than the highest. A minister of transportation who is faced with priorities that all of us can give quite good reasons to put priorities first. There is no easy task. I'm glad that the results of the work force are being drawn to the changing financing towards better transport, both public transportation and others in the capital area, as well as better airways and airports. However, I believe that it is late, that such a great solution would require such a great debate that it is unacceptable, but to postpone it until Christmas if it should be well done. To be honest, I don't need to keep running this case at such speed. I don't even think it's such a political dispute over the matter. [[The president calls.]] We know the need, this is a well - thought - out suggestion. However, it takes time to put them together in one general plan and talk to people about these fundamental changes that they certainly include in Icelandic society.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u45	V.E.G. President. I felt that there was a voice in a different language. Hv. Councilmen have come up and asked: "Why is this project not in the foreground? She's the most important. That's right. But people in other districts also have this reasoning about their assignments in their territory, and these people are also right. Sure there's a lot of traffic in here. It's changed a lot in a short time. We haven't been able to have that policy here to take part in using public transportation in general, so we're a lot on our own cars. We face a huge task with no political differences. I hope we have the right heart to give it to ourselves and to the people for Christmas that we will continue this important mission and will be able to take steps now. We're gonna step outside the box and deal with this project seriously.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u46	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister for the answers, and I thank the many who spoke about this inquiry and agreed with me on the need for this procedure. Most of the things that happened there, I agree with my mind, but not everything. I might have thought that some things were quite possible. Eaglenes Road is certainly a pretty big project, but I wouldn't even call Eaglees Road a huge project, as I heard it. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson talking about earlier. Similarly, I think it is rather said that Eaglenes Road did not arrive on the program because the mayor of Reykjavík specifically objected to this project or that it completely inhibited plans for increased public transportation. I don't think public transportation has anything to do with this. I reiterate my gratitude for this discussion, and I want to finish this by quoting what is stated in the review of Kópavog's town council on transport, which says, by permission of the President: The Eaglenes Ways and the Breewaywayways arrived in another delay and were reassigned to a transport plan or to a period of three, in 2019◯22022. Today, the road is further advanced, and it is delayed until 2024-2028. Kopavogians have shown a great waiting attitude, and in view of their circumstances, they took their last delay in silence. The latest delay, however, is only rudeness to the inhabitants of Kopavog and the capital area. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u47	A respectable president. I thank a number of members of the council to take an interest in this matter, and I have a clear understanding of it. So it's only about transport in general, wherever they are and what we face, that they are huge. There has been a tremendous increase in traffic, especially in the southwest corner, but also on the Southland road, the Westland Road, and the Rhine Way, in many parts of the country, the infrastructure is not yet built up. People simply don't get around, business companies don't come public, and people don't get to school or work, so the challenge is huge. I also insist that this project has not been delayed beyond any other task. Early policy plans were inexpensive and unrealistic. They were wishes lists that can be pointed out if they wish, but they were never likely to be done. Now we've reached this place. It is also very important that the road design is designed for roads, partnerships between rural communities, that there is an agreement between local communities, not only on the road or on the construction but also on the implementation. This has not been the case. That is why people have searched for other ways. No doubt this would have affected the delay in managing things. There is plenty of other work that everyone agrees on. I think that's part of the explanation. But I would like to agree that this road is extremely important to traffic security, as is the case with other security factors that have been identified. That's why we've been looking for ways, both in the Ministry, and already planned it on a transport plan, as well as now an environmental and transport committee, on how we can speed up projects. This process is one of them, but by the change in payment of the road system, it's overall. There are reasons why I cannot go over where time is running out. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u48	That's right.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u49	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of Education and Culture for sitting here for answers to us. I'd like to direct her to a question about the activities of chronic education centers or adult education, as it is often referred to, of course, much more. The number of educational centers around the country is likely 11 different. The presidents of the operation seem very vague. There is a difference between them that is internalized by where they are in the countryside, whether the service site is wide - I am a member of the Westland, Western and Eastern or geographic region, as in the Western Islands and Southnes, and there have been changes in the composition of the work and changes in the composition of clients over the years. A training course that was so common in the past has now disappeared, but we have taken extensive educational assignments that provide various rights. I mention, for example. that the ever-produced centres carry the brunt of Icelandic education for immigrants. Sedation centres vary under the head, e.g. in regard to opportunities to offer training to disabled persons. Because it's important. It seems to be the only way out there. One status centre gets, for example. The amount of money for this factor is three times higher than that of others, and there is no objective explanation or reasoning in the case. Mr. President. The relationship with employment life is an important factor in the activities of existing education centres, seminary and education, ongoing education to corporate workers and institutions. I name general health care professionals, and I mention, because I know a little bit about it, the Super School of Grundartan. There are several factors that raise questions. That's the basics, too. We are in many parts of the country coping with low education levels, where adult education is involved, and it can make a big difference in building into the public school system. So I'm going to ask the highest question. Minister: What plans are there for policy development in adult education and the activities of continuous education centres, and especially in the country? What is the consistent model for the work and the plans to strengthen professionally and effectively manage the work?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u50	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón who created the Brjánsson Brennsson to deal with the subject of the ongoing education and adult education. The need for continuing education and re-education is growing more and more because of the technological changes that are taking place in our society through self - efficiency and so forth. And so it is that current issues are changing considerably, including Because of the changes in climate. Society is growing ever more aware of what is happening, and those taking care of these matters in an efficient and upbuilding way will be more competitive in nations. Hv. A senator asked what plans are there for adult education and the activities of a continuous education center, especially in the country. Then I'd like to mention that the Ministry is now preparing a bill for an adult study, and with that work there will be a review of a law on higher education. The law particularly includes adults who have not completed formal high school education and who are not organized on the basis of high school or university law. The concept of adult education covers a much larger group. This broad approach is one of the main reasons why the decision was made to start working on a new total adult study law and, at the same time, to simplify the principle and change the framework so that the law covers a greater length of time. By doing so, we can further strengthen the support that everyone has the strength to live and work and meet today's challenges. I place great emphasis on hearing a voice of interest on this subject. That is why I appointed a group of 20 people to study adults at the beginning of this year, with the order for four years. In order to get the highest width in the group, they were asked for the title of national stakeholders and represented by 40 members of the nominees. The role of the consultation group is to be a professional field for adult studies where individual subjects can be taken into consideration, expressed opinions, presented information, explained viewpoints, and found a number of solutions. The first task of the group was to review the continuation of education laws and to provide suggestions that can be used to review laws on adult studies. A respectable president. What is the consistent model for the work and the plans to strengthen professional and economic development are to say that the ever - increasing education centre throughout the country earns money for multi-changing activities on a variety of means. The contributions made to them by the Ministry are primarily through a fund of education, which divides money according to distribution regulations and terms that the management of the fund proposes and confirms to the secretary's office. It is, in effect, a particular calculus. However, in accordance with legal requirements for continued education and after events of university education at the end of 2018, permanent education centres have agreed with the Ministry. It has been decided to make an appendix with the contracts that will extend their time through the next year. A respectable president. I aim to bring the Ministry's direct contributions to the perpetual education center, as per contract, into a supportive arrangement, as stated by Article 42. Regulation on official financial and regulations No. 642/2018 on the secretary's grants. It stipulates principles for granting support and duty to advertise available grants to private people who are responsible for basic services and social projects, such as provisional education centres. A respectable president. Along with work in the transition to the development of a team model, or a model, which includes an ongoing education system, under official financial legislation, the Ministry works on the development of a team model. you will have rules about how you will be advertised, what requirements will be set and what requirements will be made for candidates. A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for putting these matters on the program for the council. They are relevant for the progress of the group and we want to promote the basic skills of most of the Icelandic labour market so that it can be developed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u51	A respectable president. I'm just coming up here to discuss this matter and accept its importance. It is important that there is a good place for education and education throughout the country. I want to thank you, too, the highest. Minister for clear and clear answers, I know she's very interested in working on these matters. Educational centres throughout the country are in the service of the job and can enter a work course that is varied in different parts of the country. They have also established a growing education program of enterprises and rural society, which is of enormous importance. That is why it is very important to ensure that the basis for national education is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u52	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The starter for setting this up. National educational centres are extremely important. They have helped to increase education levels and improve the quality of life for people. They're holding the test. Such tests do not have to take long distances, so clearly it is very positive that they are present. If I know the story correctly, they were set out in the country, and there was a miscommunication, and the state came in to fire them. I wondered: " Was ever going to build up an education center here in the capital area, such as the country? Initially, the thought was different. I remember thinking that it was a different thought in the first place. Yet, this is extremely important, increasing the level of education. They have come to perform a physical exercise evaluation that has been very important in increasing the volunteer service of a professional. This is an important matter, and I trust the Minister will follow through as she has expressed herself about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u53	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Guðjón The Brjánsson of the inquiry, also thanking the highest authority. Minister of staff answers. Yes, the activities of chronic education centres are certainly an important foundation for the maintenance of education in the country. It is crucial that all around the country, wherever people are on education, the public can pursue education. It is also vital that people do not have to go by long distances, and all of us know that there is power and the basis for many well - being. Especially do I find this work important to those who are disabled and other groups who may, as mentioned earlier, immigrants regarding Icelandic education. has difficulty going that long way. Here, the minister mentioned earlier that he was in the process of preparing adult education. I'd like to welcome him, and I'd like to encourage him to have his assessment of the activities of the ever-growing centres, thereby strengthening the professional and functional functioning of the operation. As far as I know, this assessment was last made in 2002.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u54	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón of Brjánsson for bringing up this matter of need. The opportunities here in the capital area are equally important in many parts of the country. But perhaps even further out in a country where there is less than that rock - mass, let us say, schools of education, such as university, though there are certainly some places where university homes are. In social context, this is important, and in the community there is more to it, and therefore it is important. I have been so fortunate myself that I have been given several opportunities to teach at a constant education center and have experienced firsthand what it can be fun, and especially grateful to be involved in these stations. How important it is, then, that we take good care of them and arrange for them to continue to grow and thrive!
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u55	A respectable president. I like it like the rest of us. Senators thank you for this important discussion. I agree with the importance of education and adult education throughout the country. Then I would especially like to remind myself of the areas that are classified as sub-traumatic areas, such as the Skaftárfrepp. There they have been trying to establish such a station and ensure the operation under an umbrella seat. There are different names, but they all aim at the same thing, trying to raise the level of education in the region in order to strengthen and secure habitats in areas farther away from the administration and other educational institutions. I believe that it is important to have a sound and a photo meet with the government, so that one Ministry does not initiate the Operation Tragedy based on Compulsion Institute and then is not followed by other problems.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u56	A respectable president. Thank you for the best information you've ever had. Minister. There is no doubt that we agree on the importance of existing education centers and that this activity is stable and strong throughout the country. The self-employment centres are natural, based on social goals, and are involuntary societies, government institutions, trade unions, or even professional life in these activities, representatives of the community. It sounds to me that the last plans that exist are to promote and strengthen the stability of national education centres. I have information on the fact that executives have received some information that the Ministry is preparing the parties for the contracting work of the provision centres and without being planned and therefore has not given them a chance to consider the matter further or to react. I ask a minister: Is it true that invitations are being prepared for important aspects of education and adult education? And how will this affect the operation, in the opinion of a minister? How does a minister support himself in the carrying out of this ministry? paritaprevir Will Árnason, mentioned that we need to strengthen this service in fragile and vulnerable areas?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u57	A respectable president. Thank you so much for this discussion, it's very urgent and useful, including... Because the elimination of high school is higher in Iceland than in the North and in most other countries. Therefore, the need for re-education or a sustained education centre is more urgent in Iceland. True, in recent years we have been achieving considerable success; we are reducing the elimination. Hv. Councilmen have mentioned the physical evaluation. We are taking in what really matters, and all of this, of course, goes on to strengthen our people in the workforce and nurture the knowledge that really matters and strengthens them. Hv. A senator asked about the invitation. It is natural to cooperate or to conform to the official financial law of 42. Of course, we will be in cooperation with the ever-old centres, and if there is to be more cooperation or additional information, the minister of this journal will take it to heart. We'll straighten it out and I'll inquire about it in my department. On the other hand, the education centres and the reeducation programs there provided a powerful study in order to improve the skills of the Icelandic labour market. We also need to remember that this service is needed more in Iceland because of how the country has been eliminated.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u58	Mr. President. I think I'll start the discussion a little bit on the way it ended, i.e. ... ofa greatrescuit on this country from high school. I'd like to connect it with my request for study aids for high school students. I do a little bit more than a few things, but the first question is simple: Does a minister consider the increased diversity of teaching techniques, including the presentation of the study material, to respond to a drop from high school, especially boys? But it's not just about suspension. The fact is, as recorded in the autumn news, that at the same time as high school students spend tens of thousands of dollars in books every semester, many of them on a shelf unreaded, underdeveloped them, and in many proverbs, the study is simply missing for the same high school students. Experts say that the system is up to nothing, that there is little or no incentive to publish new books. The study material for high school has never been on many fish, but the situation has deteriorated over the past few years. There have been reports of e.g. that after the 2007 development fund was cut down in 2011 and since it has not been able to raise it again. Every year, applications have been much higher in sums than those of the funds in the fund, so that they do not meet the need. In this year's work is so deep that the business system of a people in the school edition is ruined. It is out - of - date and has not followed the needs of the market, not the students, nor the needs of the schools in this ever - increasing and changing environment we live in. We need a new system, they say, and other guidelines on this market to make it work. Question two to the highest. So the minister is: Does a minister intend to engage in certain activities in order to ensure the presentation of the study material? If so, what is the main measure of action, and within what period of time will the Minister's plans carry them out? One-third of the question's fragrance serves as a special hobby for the highest. Minister, our English tongue. The fact is, the books published before high school students are many not in English at all. It is quite crazy that at the same time we talk about the Icelandic language, 16, 17, 18 - year - olds are designed to learn very complex subjects such as mathematics, biology, physics, and chemistry in English. I do not comment on the fact that English is trained in this regard, but we cannot at the same time talk about Icelandic being a nationalist and then do not trust us to teach our young people the language and, using a probe, which the teacher then talks about in Icelandic language, and the children do not know which retinum is to be used. [[The president calls.]] This is the last question: Do Ministers think that one way to the objective of a proposal to conduct a judicial hearing on Icelandic soil as national language and official language in Iceland is to ensure that in all areas of Icelandic society, students of Icelandic high school will be allowed access to the Watchtower study articles in Icelandic languages, such as The Watchtower? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u59	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson's son, Hannah, for setting up a program for high school matters. What a joy it is to be here at the council Hall and discuss these important matters because this is, of course, about the development of the nation! I'm going to start by responding to the elimination and diversity of teaching techniques, but I'd like to start by showing that the elimination has decreased substantially in the past ten years. Now the percentage is that 58% graduates at the required time in high school, but ten years ago it was about 44%. So we see significant improvement. I'd like to mention it, a respectable president, that the reasons why students are expelled from high school are complex. Elimination from secondary education in high school is a long process and a long time before a student leaves the high school stage. One of the things we've been doing at the Ministry of Education and Culture is putting much more emphasis on the level and high school, even though we don't have financial responsibility for those school levels, because it is clear that the elimination begins, and we see its first sign, much sooner. We've been greatly promoting cooperation with Icelandic rural society, who are financially responsible for the elementary school and also at the kindergarten to find ways. How can we counteract this? However, it is clear that high school and teaching methods in it are very varied, and I must admit that they are far more diverse than I had realized before studying high school. There is an enormous diversity in the course of study and selection, i.e. An offer of study. I'm not convinced that the major covariate on elimination is the lack of variety in teaching methods. However, we are considering the main covariates in the Ministry very closely. One of the things we can see is that if students show low Icelandic and math skills at late high school, they are likely to significantly increase their share of elimination. So there is some evidence that education can be further developed in this regard. On the other hand, I think that the important thing is that we need to improve our choice of high school, i.e. that the selected schedule should be met. We're working with the local government level on how we can meet it because I think this is also related because students don't often see how much choice and education are offered in high school. This is where all students, parents, students, seniors at high school, and high school will need to make students more aware of it. Whether we are going to take certain measures to ensure the presentation of the study material is asked. We're working on a study course in Iceland and we set up a working group who is working on it. I would like to state that I believe that careful study data is a specific equation device. If they are good and work at them considerably, students will have a better chance for their learning to become even better and more powerful. So I think that when we discuss study material, and I don't talk about when we talk about it so much later, I guess that's a little of the essence that we have a very powerful education system. I'd like to say what. A senator says that we have started a team working on this and that review is being completed in 2019, where we are doing a very thorough review of these factors. For national languages and the lack of study material, it is also being studied by the National Institute of Education, possibly using technology in this respect, i.e. ... withthetechnicalproject and other routes. In this way, a respected president can obtain his or her study material at a lower cost than before. We must make good use of and examine it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u60	A respectable president. Thank you. Chairman of Hanna Katrín Friðriksson for the query. I just want to get right into the fact that one of the main reasons for elimination is dyslexia. That's one of the things that's causing a lot of trouble in high school because if you're not a good reader of Icelandic and math, you're in trouble right away. More is needed, new methods need to be found. It's, for example. The clay has been found for clay in three dimensions. There are some things that are going on to help people who are dyslexic, and they need to dive into it and teach it better and have a better perspective on modern technology in helping those in there, especially those who are dyslexic so that they can get skills in Icelandic and math.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u61	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson for bringing this up, as well as the minister. Of course, it is absolutely essential that all the policy currently conducted in the Ministry aims to increase the diversity and availability of different study tools. Because it's the highest. Minister enters the elementary school, and I'd like to mention that we're on a boat in terms of a media control of basic school publishing literature. If we compare ourselves with the countries around us, whether in Western Europe or in the North, they have the same primary objective as we are guided by, equal to the study and the availability of the students of related studies. Although these countries are guided exactly the same, they have achieved the success of having a much better supply and greater diversity of study data. There is something we must look to, and that is, of course, true of all points of school.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u62	Mr. President. This is a very important subject for discussion, a subject structure. It is important for those in school to have open - minded, open - minded access to a wide variety of and accessible study material. I'd like to connect this to Icelandic. I think it is the strongest and best way to promote Icelandic and protect it from foreign influences to make it available to students in Icelandic. I think money is better spent in Icelandic academic research than it is in strengthening, e.g. A general edition of a book in the country, though it is in English. 'Cause that's where the foundation is, and I think we should better set our priorities for this thing. Then there is a great increase in motivation for teachers, many of whom have very good teaching materials but do not distribute because they are looking to publish it and are not getting enough encouragement and strength.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u63	A respectable president. Thank you. Chairman and Minister for Answers. I can agree with a lot of what has happened here, i.e. with elimination and reasons. How important it is to have a wide variety of study and teaching methods! I've been a high school teacher and a school counselor and a high school counselor, and I'll agree with that. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson mentioned dyslexia. When I was a student and professional counselor in high school, I went to a little class and asked how they liked to work and what was best for them. It was mainly the reading of a computer, the ability to expand writing, the use of films, and other things that were more suitable for different formats, as well as for different people. I think it's number one, two and three. It is an equation to be able to invite students to use the data that is convenient for them, but we too need, and that is true of the highest value. A minister said to offer the material in Icelandic. That alone, of course, is the equation. Although it's good to be able to teach English in high school, not everyone can read it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u64	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister of answers, as well as leader. This is a variety of teaching methods, including those related to a school drop. I agree with what has been presented in Icelandic, academic, technical, and dyslexia, all very good inputs. But what I want to add is cooperation between home and school. It must also happen when young people are in high school. It is important that teachers reach students, as in elementary school, that our children become readers. And I don't talk about parents having good cooperation with both high school and high school. I believe it has to be done in high school too to break out of school. I think it's a foundation that needs to be a lot more important than ever.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u65	President. Thank you very much. Minister and all the trouble. The members of the council who spoke very much for a good discussion, and it is clear that this is a subject that burns many of us, naturally. I'm especially happy to be the highest. A minister gave the tone at the end of his discourse or a talk on the electronic study tools. It was where I wanted to go in the second round because I kind of believe that it's the key to the big business. It's cheaper. It is easier to renew such study tools. They're new in time, Icelandic, there's no problem there, i.e. Icelandic, and we're meeting the needs or habits of the young generation that are used to going to YouTube or whatever it is to look for, we're really going to find anything. I don't think there's a solution between heaven and earth that can't be given any instructions at all by going in there. Young people can do that. Besides, it allows teachers to put their backs on this. I'd love to hear from the highest. Minister at the end - I'm glad to hear about this course that she speaks about and about these working groups, and I look forward to seeing the result. But I'd like to know if it's not for sure that it also makes sure that teachers can do this and that there is a healthy competition in the study industry. So there will be some competition to do what is best in a material way and that the presentation is really good for students to take advantage of this variety of material. For my part, I say that if the education system itself is driving the train into this trend, it will simply blow away. That is not a very good indication of our future. As for study material, we must begin to be equally concerned with other subjects that young people are looking for today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u66	A respectable president. These are very helpful discussions and things that have happened here that I would like to discuss. First, I'm going to mention what concerns dyslexia. One of the reasons why we are adding large numbers to school and elementary school is dyslexia because it can be seen quite early in the course of study. Hence, we need to nurture more of an early intervention to help such students sooner in their study course. What also happens is that children who have a different mother tongue also face certain challenges, and that is why they need to do so much more. With regard to the work group I've mentioned, working to improve the study tools, there is an effort to focus on the diversity and digital version. And, of course, there is considerable consultation with teachers. This is a European committee and should be prioritised in order to support study projects, and that is exactly what they are doing. This is exactly the kind of support given to those who publish study data, i.e. Twenty-five percent reimbursed. This actually fits what was mentioned earlier in the discussion. We are, of course, cherishing the English language. The proposal that I will make for, hopefully at the end of the week or at the beginning of the next week, is about these factors. I found it very enjoyable for members of Congress to come on the subject, but for fun, they could be assigned to the Iceland Business Committee, which took place, was a winner of a race called the Successful Lesson Association. The idea is that there is a huge increase in access to study data, and the Ministry is working with that group to further it. This would then be a landmark foundation, one that everyone would have access to the study material and that would be sharing it. This is, of course, all in English.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u67	Mr. President. During the conference bill treatment to correct the 2008 health insurance legislation and medical legislation from 1994, with subsequent changes, which became the law of No. 45/2012, changes in drug costs were required. Therefore, a greater proportion of welfare committees were directed to the Minister on the Commission's Regulation on Preservation and were to be reviewed with the aim of increasing strength for aid tools where certain medical security groups requiring medication, such as In addition, diabetics, who need assistance, have considerable extra expenses. In addition to the insulin that was free to correct the situation, diabetes mellitus needs to buy strips, blood knives and needles and insulin pens as well as to buy a tube set and a prolonged-release capsule. Patients with diabetes often require frequent pump equipment and the stuff that comes with it. Patients can apply for concentrations due to the 2008 Commission's regulations for funding equipment, but the annual costs to the patient themselves often exceed the maximum health insurance spending per person at drug costs over a period of 12 months. The cost of a diabetic child, e.g. At the age of six, the costs of health insurance for insulin have been cut off, allowing up to 200,000 bucks. every year. This adds up, for example. The loss of another parent, usually a mother. One parent of a diabetic child usually has to reduce his or her job. As a result, diabetics and others who are needed as a result of the medication are thus at higher annual costs for their disease than those only taking medication. In addition, for patients with diabetes mellitus, the most common tool is a custom fixation device, ready orthopaedic shoes, and frontal snores and ankle snores. Extensive instruments differ greatly from those from those of Iceland. A user in Sweden needs, e.g. not to pay for the medical wound of the user's leg, which is part of the hospital's professional team. I'd like to ask the highest. Health Minister: Have the rules been revised, as a health committee suggested, with the goal of reducing the cost of this group? If so, how much has the cost dropped?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u68	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's farm directed to me a verbal request for strength to buy some of the tools. He asks whether the rules have been revised with the aim of reducing the cost of the health insurance group that certainly requires medication, such as. Diabetes, but you need help, which also carries considerable extra expenses. If so, you may ask, " How has the review been done and how much cost has been dropped? ' The answer is that there are no overall revisions of the costs of this group of health care professionals by means of a group that has been initiated in order to review a general application of the measures for aid tools. This group has been responsible for reviewing the overall arrangement of aid tools, and particularly taking into account the UN Convention on Human Rights for Self - Life and Social and Professional Affairs, but also in the light of government and rural groups, equal and technological development. What I wanted for this group that I started in January or February of this year was to consider the legal environment, regulations and also the implementation of this rule. It was quite clear, when I began to consider the existing environment as health minister, that the issues that were particularly concerned with the helpers had come to rest for many years. It should be noted, however, that recently, the changes in the limits required to purchase tools were made to pay health insurance to those who have cystic fibrosis (CF), i.e. cystic fibrosis, was increased from 70% to 100%. This change in individuals who need both drugs and tools, so this change is relatively recent. When a reimbursement system of health care professionals was implemented on May 1, 2017, it was specifically considered whether the right factor was to submit to the system as a whole. It was not advisable then until there was experience on the system, and now the experience has gone from half a year to six months, so there is good reason to examine this aspect as well, i.e. Whether the pay program should take extra care of auxiliary equipment. The cost of health insurance with an aid system has been increasing year by year, and it might be checked to find out what cost it would be for health insurance to add aid to this payment system. Regarding the group I mentioned earlier, the goal was for the group to produce proposals for me on October 1, 2018, about which I received an interim separation from the group with a few indications of a change in regulations that I was both kind and obliged to do. A senator in a special way, even in writing. The group has completed its diagnostic work, and this is a leading group. paritaprevir The Steinunn of Árnadóttir, in her early teens, with the arrival of the people most familiar. The group is now working on a report with results and proposals to minister and, according to the chart I received on October/November, the objective of the group is to complete the report for the New Year's Eve. My answer to that. A senator's main concern is that the tools are truly on my schedule. I started this job as soon as I had accepted the office, and I had learned that the situation had come to an end.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u69	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir My lord, the Birgir of Þórarinsson, for taking up this matter here. He singled out the aid box most from the eyes of those who have diabetes, but it is important to note that the same can really be true of many other diseases, to form many rheumatic diseases and various neurological diseases. It is important to compare the value of treatment, though natural, with those who have the greatest need at any given time. However, that is how, and that is the viewpoint I would like to express, in my opinion, that there should be a means that, basically, a means of being free from charge because they are actually the means by which society ensures that those who need them can have a full community involvement. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u70	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. A minister for the answers and rejoice that these matters are indeed on her schedule, not being unnecessary as these have come to an end. That's actually very bad, because I don't think the crowns made up for this suit any further up, that I think at least, since 2007. I agree with what. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, who said that aid should be free of charge. I think you're right about what you're talking about. A senator's concern is that this is very important to the individual. It's also preventive, and I want to specifically introduce the importance of proponents. It is necessary to promote their activities within the medical institutions. It would be interesting to have a minister's opinion of that. Pillar scientists can do very much good, and their main role is to do everything in their power to avoid users'loss of limbs, but the knowledge of public and other health professionals on the importance of the role of stentists is not due to me to judge sufficiently. It needs to be corrected. Pillar experts help patients to develop and maintain skills, to improve their participation in daily life, as well as to improve their independence and quality of life. But I also insist that the welfare committee suggested that this be revised, e.g. In diabetics, and I think it is very important that it be done. [[The president calls.]] I encourage ministers to act in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u71	A respectable president. I'm still very grateful for the discussion and what. The foreman for the question and why. paritaprevir For his part, Þór Gunnarsson's Ólafur must be at ease for this discussion. I agree with both him and the leader that aid tools are natural to equal access and to ensure and contribute to the increased community involvement of everyone and should therefore not be paid for. Of course, it would be by far the most natural thought that this would be the natural contribution of society to help all to develop and share in the community. Because of what? A senator in particular would like to say that in general, I believe that we are expected to enhance the diversity of the different health professions. I would also like to mention occupational therapists, who, of course, are of utmost importance in the material being discussed here. I'd like to say, too, because of what. A senator may base his inquiry primarily on diabetes and the discussion, that I have represented various groups of patients who have been discussing these matters. I mention those with respiratory disease who have had to use their aid tools, psoriasis patients and patients with various neurological conditions. At the end of the council, I have presented a special report now on diabetes. It is not presented for a discussion, but it may well be the right thing to discuss when we are in a new year. It has been distributed here as a Senate document and is being passed on by a group to me and then by the Department's outback on that report. Finally, I'd like to say that I have high expectations that the committee I was able to discuss this detail and that the proposals will be reduced to looking to them for solutions in the future. I'm still very grateful to you for your discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u72	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for being here with us at the Assembly Hall and discussing this case that has already occurred. In view of the ongoing discussion of the long waiting period of individuals after certain measures in the health system, I allow myself to ask the highest level of questions. Minister whether or not to take additional measures to ensure treatment until possible. I know that a special waiting list was under way over two years ago when certain measures were raised. I think there were three operations, these were replacement surgery, cardiac and coronary strictures, or cardiac catheters, and cataract surgery. Then the campaign was added to the women's pelvic organs, the best case. Mr. President. In a statistical review of the surgeon's work since the middle of the year, it is not surprising that there have been several reasons for waiting lists. What a relief, a special source of joy! This is true of most of the operations except the replacement procedures. However, in the case of the female surgeries, about 130 women remain in need of heavy measures and suffer hardship. However, the waiting is also firm. These are generally not emergency procedures, but they may be. They are inevitable and will not be left on hand racing, and they do not fit in with emergency departments. We have a community hospital, public institutions, who can do these projects either by themselves or in cooperation with other institutions, I mention Land Hospitals, but it costs. So I ask: Has a minister intended to make such measures possible, that health - care systems will be changed in order to finance the operation in the public health system, primarily on the budget, i.e. Not through the health insurance system? Or are the Ministers planning to negotiate with private agencies for the project? And finally: If not, may patients be prepared to continue in their foreign ministry?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u73	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. The senator asks for measures due to a waiting list for two teams and asks first if I feel that special measures due to the waiting list for measures in several areas of health care should be taken. A senator went well. In recent years, information on waiting for selected measures has been published three times a year on the land surgeon's website. The last update we have in the Ministry is from November. After the most recent figures since October and according to the standards of the office, 80% of those who wait for the operation will not be waiting for longer than 90 days. These are comparable to those in the North, and all countries still have a long way to meet those criteria. According to the surgeon's figures, 337 patients were waiting for hip replacement surgery in October. Of these, 70% had waited longer than the three months. The median waiting time was approximately 20 weeks and the waiting period for the postoperative period is only seen but not delayed in time for the orthopedic surgeon to assess the need for surgery. According to our information, waiting for such a period now lasts 6 to 8 months. In October it was. 703 patients were on the waiting list for knee replacement surgery or more than in June of the same year at which 70% waited for more than three months. The median waiting time was 6◯15 months, different between institutions, and waiting for time for the orthopedic surgeon to assess the need for postoperative surgery was 6◯8 months for that procedure as well. As mentioned in the question of why. This three - year - long wait list is focused on various types of action. Overall, the waiting list may be said to have proved to be very effective in all such operations unless joint replacement measures, i.e. The result is considerably less. A new memo from surgical field Hospital reports that since the waiting period began, the number of people waiting for surgery at the hospital for more than three months was significantly reduced, with a figure of 2,126 waiting for eye block surgery in January 2016 and 89 in November 2018, so there is a considerable change. 262 waited for 2016 hip replacement surgery, and 132 was held in November 2018. So we see that there will also be positive changes but not sufficient. In view of the foregoing, there is, of course, reason to improve the efficiency of replacement operations. In addition to reviewing the increase in action, there is reason to review organization, how people are prioritised on the waiting list, and whether other less efficient measures than procedures have been reviewed in all cases for the development of physical therapy. The adjustment of the protocol of the waiting list is initiated, including by means of an electronic central waiting list to promote equilibrium and better patient information flow. It is considered by the surgeon general's office a great need to try to gain some perspective on this situation. Such an arrangement would then help ensure that there is always information on where to wait so that patients could seek it instead of binding themselves to one specific medical facility. The amount of money in the waiting list campaign at any given moment. A senator named has become permanent in his new releases, and in a financial program we expect 840 billion. K. During the next year, they will permanently enter this assignment. There was a large number of measures per 100,000 inhabitants per person by sex in the Netherlands, but the report presented a number of measures in 2015 and this year the rate of action in Iceland was lower than in the rest of the North countries. However, the number of actions in 2016 and 2017 in Iceland, as reported by the surgeon's office, is comparable to what he was elsewhere in the North countries in 2015. Then we're talking about a lot of action, we're talking about not the wait, we're talking about a lot of action. In view of all of this considered, the question can be answered in a way that makes me feel that there is good reason to take action due to a waiting list of measures and especially for the organization, priorities, and funding of this waiting list. Hv. A senator also asks if a minister intends to use the means to create a situation that does not require the burden and expense of traveling abroad to attend a medical service that can be performed at home, such as replacement operations. It is therefore to say that for this to happen, the waiting period for the procedure within the official health system must always be within the range that the surgeon's office has set for an acceptable waiting period. But that time is, as I had before, three months for surgery. I will continue to use myself for the growth of the medical institutions that have been involved in that procedure so that they can perform the necessary surgical procedures within an acceptable waiting period in most cases, but in the case that such a period cannot be achieved and a waiting period exceeds the defined limit, patients can apply for certain conditions filled with the paying cost of a foreign operation. I think it is very important that such matters be reduced and that, as most of the cases, they can be resolved within the general arrangement with an acceptable waiting time. It's really our project, and I have high hopes that we will be able to handle this important matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u74	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón of Brjánsson for bringing up the court lists. It has long been the task of the medical system to try to work down that list, and in that regard, as it were, the highest. A minister entered earlier, and how happy we were that we have been permanently secure the funds needed to maintain what has been called the wait list project! But like the highest. A minister also came on the inside is also very important for us to make sure that the models we have in progress reflect reality, i.e. Really reflects how long people have to wait. My list is completely unannounced that the waiting list is some other reality, but perhaps the personal waiting list itself. That's why I want to encourage the highest. A minister in particular would take advantage of his subsidiary to perform a procedure so that a patient in need of a specific procedure does not have to wait for a waiting list almost to shorten a waiting list. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u75	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for interesting answers. It is important that we do not forget in the midst of a disaster. We have been successful in certain areas, and it is a joy, and we should maintain it. However, we have not been able to work down a waiting list in replacement operations, something that is unexpected to no one. This is the development of all of our next countries and the need to expand. Of course, that is because of the way we live. We eat too much, we gain too much weight, our joints are broken, our musculoskeletal system is failing. Some of the extremes between them are that people who move too much also cut off their joints, and they need new teams at a young age. However, I would like to mention that in his report two years ago, Mckinsey pointed out that it would not be advisable to deposit money on the health system unless we had clear goals. Of course, we know how much each replacement is required. We know how much it costs abroad, we know how much it costs in the private sector in Iceland, and we know what it costs at the hospitals here. So I ask a minister: has there been a cost analysis of it, a future projection of what we need to put into the system so that it can accomplish the expected need for health care, e.g. in the next two decades? If so, how will preparation be used for it? You may not see evidence of such increases, e.g. During replacement operations, which are predicted to grow dramatically in the coming years, we do not see this in a financial program.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u76	A respectable president. First, I'd like to say that of course it's important, and I couldn't do it in my first answer, that the course of the cases where the right to attend a foreign service is considered to be in order to ensure that patient interests are the best of loyalty and that Iceland's health service is not the norm. I agree with it. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson says the importance of hiding institutions working on the waiting list. I agree with that too. And when the servant Guðjón Brjánsson the son of Gün heard of it, nothing went over in my first answer, namely, how much of this subject really is a public health project, i.e. Emphasize that we need to be more responsible for past health benefits by moving, eating properly, etc. During the days, there was an interview with a Danish planning counselor who has been molded in Copenhagen's organization and has just translated his key books into Icelandic. He speaks of the direct reduction in movement and the slowness of movement and the slowness of movement. 10,000 paces a day, he said it was important. This all hangs out, so, of course, a life - style is an important factor here. Because of what? A senator asks what we need to put into the future when I agree with it. A senator with all of this rests on the importance of our health policy, i.e. asking what we're going to do, what health care can do and what hospitals do - I'm talking about the Land Hospital and the Hospital in Akureyri - do, and then what other service we want to do and what government services are given to them, including countries and other institutions. Then the State, i.e. We, to determine what we would like to buy or serve beyond that. This must be in accordance with the needs of patients, not according to the needs of those who sell them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u77	Mr. President. Let's take care of the health issues of environmental and energy. For example, over time and for obvious reasons, discussions and observations on electricalization are becoming more extensive. Electricisation is important to climate because of less greenhouse gas emissions, but it is also of economic benefit, i.e. sales of electricity to foreign parties and, of course, savings the import of fossil fuels. There are a number of ports that can already supply smaller ships for electricity. So it is through the low - pressure distribution system, and I like to mention Húsavík. There are very few ships there, at least two people who need electricity because they're partially electrical. Then there are the big ships, freighters, and passengers, and even a huge cruise ship, which we need most of the situation, and then we're talking about the massive transport system. This electricalization is primarily in that if we first look at the low - tension system, recharging boats, or shutting small light machines in case of a ship that is exclusively powered fossil fuels. It's boats and smaller ships. Then there's energy back to ships that are temporarily at the docks and that are transport ships, as I said, and this particularly applies to the 10 to 15 largest ports of the country, and at least the most advanced system must come in. The extra needs in these cases vary greatly. She's from being a kilowatt to 1, 2 megawatts, and up to 10, 15, 20, she tells me numbers that I actually question. I can't believe one cruise ship needs the same energy as any Akureyri. I don't know. I might have to get my stitches on it. But my questions to the highest. There are two ministers, on the one hand, regarding the urgency of this primary project in view of the survey made. Second, each situation is covered with the electricalization of the harbors and what will be predictable in the next few years of government regulations.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u78	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this request for electricalization denied. I'm going in my answer to review their situation, what's ahead, and answer questions of which. Senator. But first, to prepare electricalization to reject a ship's ability to use domestic electricity. To answer, the Government Treaty states that the development of the transport and distribution systems of electricity should support energy exchange programmes aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions, e.g. by internalisation for electricalization denied. One key factor in transport is to support environmentally sustainable transport by linking ships to port electricity and all new processes will be induced environmentally-friendly energy sources in accordance with a climate change programme 2018◯2030. On May 31, 2017, the Allied Council agreed to agree on the terms of the energy change action programme, which aims to reduce fossil fuels use and to increase the share of renewable energy sources. In the case of a problem, the aim is to increase the share of renewable energy to 10% by 2030, which was only 0.1% in 2016. One of the action projects at the council resolution turned to shape the energy exchange programme in Icelandic ports, focusing on the increased supply of electrical wood for ships. The Ministry got a little earlier this year, Icelandic brand. and join us in implementing such energy exchange strategy and this report was submitted to the Ministry last week. It provides suggestions for action that the government can suggest for the development of electrical infrastructures in the ports of this country. An operation plan will take up the strength of the current power source in ports. It also follows suggestions that support the programme and guide governments for practical building projects with a view to the greatest benefit of action. The operation programme does not follow costs, but it suggests that the benefits of further electronicization will be turned down at the same time as costs for such projects. That's our next step. Finding this data will increase the supply of electrical wood for ships at docks in order to reduce the burning of fossil fuels vessels at the docks. At the same time, it should be noted that the Ministry is involved in developing infrastructure for future energy exchanges in accordance with climate-based action programme, including: Unable to open wpa_supplicant wpa_supplicant configuration. In terms of the cost of electricalisation the country will reject and how much electricity would be required for the electricalisation, Iceland's ports generally offer a link to a low-exploited electrical delivery system, such as this. A senator entered a ship's size. The present system meets the needs of most of the fishing ships, patrols, and other ships of 300 grosstons. The environmental report of the European Commission on the fishing grounds from 2017 shows that all Icelandic fishing ships can today connect with national electricity. The report says that an electrical system that the fishing fleet has access to is generally not good. However, there may be times when the connection cannot control the ship's energy demand, e.g. while in the country, raise. If a ship needs more power than they can get at the docks, a light engine must be run on board the ships. At that time, the organization determined how long it would take to pay off the cost of buying equipment on a ship to remove electricity from the country, and the result was that it would pay off in just six months. If power demand above 1 MW, the delivery of electricity is not possible, except by high-voltage connections, and the size of that group is some freighter and a passenger ship. Today, there are no high-voltage connections in Icelandic ports, but there is a link in the Landing Islands and the Western Islands due to a new electric vector. There's a Fax Gulf crew in cooperation with Icelandic New Energy and there's an assessment of the possibility of creating a high-voltage connection on a new port outside Kpplas. Based on information from the Fax Gulf, the cost of high-voltage equipment is estimated from 280 million. K. For transport ships, 560 million. K. ... fora passengership. In many lands, a contribution from public funds has been needed to finance high - tension connections. Three ports in Norway; Oslo, Kristansand and Bergen, have set up these equipment and have come up with strength from a so-called NOx fund, a spill of fuel sales to ships. Landsnet estimated in 2016 the demand for energy exchange for ports in a report entitled Possible energy exchange in Iceland for the largest national ports. A report by Landsnet shows that the energy of ships varies according to size. For example, the force needed by cruise ships 7,300 kW and transport ships is 4,000 kW, while fishing vessels and tugs have a force of approximately 31 kW. According to the Landsnet report, calculations show that energy exchange demand is about 17 MWs inside, including all ships, including cruise ships and freighters. Thus, emissions savings due to energy exchange were estimated in the same report by 33,100 tons of CO2 per year. In the coming year, to add in very short, Iceland is leading the North American Ministers and one of the three focus areas of the engineering has to do with the ocean. Under that category, energy exchange and innovation are at ports. So there is much to go. I'll get in on it better at the end.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u79	Mr. President. I wanted to come up here and thank you. paritaprevir A Ari Trausti Guðmundsson for putting the matter on and before this discussion with the highest degree. Minister. My opinion is that we have to go much further and much faster. The situation is simply that way, and we see it in all the research reports and just so much that it needs to be done. Of course, it's positive that the case is being handled, but I think it is especially necessary to call attention to rejections in which most of the large cruise ships are coming, such as Akureyri and Iceland, as well as to mention Seyster fun, and that these harbors, as well as the natural Gulf oceans mentioned earlier, will be electricalized. Likewise, we need to look at other aspects of this context, such as. The burning of black oil in Icelandic law, as well as the allowing of open cleaning equipment. I think it is extremely important that this discussion be taken forward and that a certain step will be taken in order to change it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u80	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for her answers and words. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Flandish the Elíasdóttir of Elisabeth for her input. Of course, there are ways to celebrate the Action Programme and the steps being taken. We can debate how fast to take it, activate Power Fund, etc. At any rate, it can be said that this is an important matter. There's a reexamination of plans and a little faster in my opinion than we expect today. It is very important that there is enough power in the system, whether there are 17 MWs or 27 MWs. At any rate, it is necessary to have a different force needed in the programme and energy exchange. That matter needs to be handled carefully. It is also obvious that, at the end of the year, the cost will run for billions of dollars, and it will have to be expected in a financial programme not only for the next one but also for the next one in 2030. I think we're on the right track, but it's okay to go, and I'm pretty impressed. A minister to do everything within her power to do so. Again and again, I want to stress that some of the numbers we've heard, that the energy needs of one cruise ship is 20 MW - I won't accept it. If we had those numbers, we're talking about 50 or 100 MWs that I can't accept to be right. I'm going to take a closer look.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u81	Mr. President. What I wanted to say before was that we have so far put the most emphasis on national energy exchange, and it's as good as it is now, despite the fact that we have to do better there and work faster. Energy exchange is an important category and an important factor in meeting the climatic obligations and our targets for energy exchange. At the same time, if you see the proportion of renewable energy used on board ships, it is close to being at an initial point when compared to the land's energy exchange. Of course, we're talking about a lot of cars but much fewer ships, so this is a completely different approach to the project, and it may not be possible to achieve much success with so many ships. The report I quoted earlier will be published tomorrow, with some good information and very helpful work, and then we will proceed and take the next steps. Like a snooze. A senator came in when he mentioned that the cost was considerable when that factor, i.e. The funding of performance and equipment, key to this project, but technology alone is not an obstacle here, but rather that of confiding strings, feeling funds. In this regard, it is considered important to get on with the possibility that there will be strength from public funds. It also makes it important to see what the benefits are of each operation so that they work together on what is being put into public funds and where we get the most results in this project. Of course, we must have ambition to do well in this, and this should really be part of our image, whether in the fishing field or in the traveling work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u82	Mr. President. Last November, national policy plans were presented with a pomp and pug. These are ambitious projects that deal with organization, vision, and the marketing of the areas. As noted on a travel agency's home page, the goal is for the local people to set their sights and destinations, to decide where to direct tourists, and to get tourists to stay longer at destinations so that their tourism can thrive. Protocols allow for overall looking at the destination rather than only looking at the market. Thus, the experience, the population, and the long - term survival of the destination are seen as well as the experience of tourists. As noted in the destination plan of the East, destination plans are tools that allow citizens to determine how tourism contributes to the community and what steps to take to achieve acceptable results. Of course, national planning programmes are the best, but as we know, there is not enough strategy, they need to be followed by induction, and they need to be made clear who has the responsibility of following them, and they need to be assured of the ability to follow through. The possibility of setting up so - called destination rooms, or in English - called Documentation Organism, has been discussed, which would then have the responsibility to carry out the destination plans. The market areas of the country are certainly a good guide, but it is clear that they do not have an absolute amount of activity for the project as well as the costs for upcoming their plans and reporting will be considerable. Clearly, it will also take even more effort to implement and implement selected tasks. It is important that the institutions of the country at the time of the construction of their destinations, and it is my opinion that here we truly stand before the opportunity to build and establish the market facilities. It is then important to link these tasks into national parish programmes, but in fact, it is currently unplugged unless there is a good willingness to cooperate. So I ask, what then? How will a minister follow up and implement the destination plans for the part of the country? Will the Ministry come up with projects and ensure that they will be fulfilled? And if not, who? How will the government follow the priorities of national destinations with other policies, such as the transport strategy? Unfortunately, the transport programme currently undertook by the Environment and Transport Committee does not show that the focus of the national destination programmes has been taken into consideration, although there is certainly an opportunity to do so in the discussion of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u83	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator of this inquiry. I agree with what. A senator in this regard is an incredibly important assignment. In fact, this is one of the most expensive projects that have been done for tourism in the administrations, and much of the money was put into it, and the key elements are that it is properly followed and found a good course for all of it because, for example, this is the case. Companies are key. Hv. A senator mentioned here to link the plans to parish plans and other programmes, policy plans, shared structure, local planning, national programme, etc. A travel agency has made contracts for three years at the National Marketing Office on State Values to follow local destination programmes and have a half and an absolute value depending on the size of the region. The initiatives are mainly to follow the progress of the policy priorities of the destination programme in the relevant part of the country, with access to the building, innovation and product development initiatives in accordance with local environmental management programmes. Then there is integration, cooperation and conversation with other local programmes, and this will include what I mentioned earlier; national, regional and shared, road, EEA, national parks and other things. If these plans stand alone and do not talk to all the others and do not take into account decisions on how to use money, whether it is government or rural, these are just plans and reports, but they will not be realized. So this is a key element. Each year in the progress of the proposed proposals is also part of the market room's activities, participation in national consultation areas on the progress of destination plans, and working to reevaluate the destination plans of the area in a team of cooperation on national levels that are being held by a travel agency. Similarly, a travel agency has made a contract with most market agencies on individual projects in its destination plans. A travel agency has already set aside more than 106 million. K. to these projects over the next three years, but this amount will increase by up to 18 million. K. For the current plans. This will also include the follow-up to the destination plans and the role of a travel agency manager. to provide education and information on the outworking of the destination plans. Of course, those who have been doing this work know and are informed about what has been done, but how important it is that there is education and information to everyone is involved so that it will all start talking to the future! This is also about having an active conversation with stakeholders on the progress of the project, regularly compiling information on national events, offering proposals for the improvement and continuation of the project, and maintaining a team for national programmes. Since the role of a travel agency is to push and follow up in government institutions and rural areas, the role that the projects listed in the destination programmes will be established and other plans will also take into account the destination programme, such as the national development programme. This will keep up with the travel-places provided for the destination of applications. It is really a new one, and it was not realistic to do so until they were ready. Now that they have come forward, it is only natural for a government-bound competitive fund to take into account these policy plans. Besides that, there's 30 million. K. from a policy based program for 20188/2024 has been scheduled for introduction and implementation of the destinations for 2018 and 2019. I have faith in this assignment, and I eagerly reflect on it. A senator on how the market agencies can develop. Of course, what's positive about them is that it's a sub-cultural work, and there's a lot of opportunities in them and there's a link to the population, rural governments, businesses in the region, etc. We will also need to look to how they should develop and how they can respond best to new and larger tasks. They differ greatly from one another, who, of course, is self - powerful. They also need to think about how the supporting systems around them develop when they begin taking on larger assignments, whether it is the government that makes a deal about them or any other. The base is over there. I think these policy plans will be the key to the development of each sector when it comes to tourism.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u84	A respectable president. This is where we're going to discuss how we're going to use the national destinations and I want to thank you very much. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Frieda, the daughter of Elíasdóttir, for bringing up that important assignment. I think we need to talk a lot more about these plans, and they need a lot more general presentation. We have discussed what they are important, but we may find it difficult to get the discussion in human affairs so that we can all understand what we are going to do with our plans. As far as I'm concerned, we've got a set tool here to coordinate and capture the entire part of the country together to work in the same direction, but the key is that the markets and those who are expected to lead the work have the funds to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u85	Mr. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Flandish the daughter of Elíasdóttir for bringing up the matter. Travelers and tourists have, in effect, become a very important subject in Icelandic society, and it is extremely important that they do well. I'd like to say that these policy plans, and then stress assessment of society's capacity and nature, to receive all the tourists, are extremely important. This needs to work together, and we need to consider that we can use the land, that tourists can enjoy it. We need to be able to control this pressure, and to do so, there are tools and tools that we should examine with an open mind. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u86	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for clear answers as well. Parliamentaries who participated in the discussion. I'd like to start by catching it as a dog. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir called in for the presentation. I think the presentation is quite important, not only in the parts of the country, but also in the tourism services as well as, basically, the state institutions and the national public conferences. The other thing I wanted to come in, maybe the only thing I could ever do. The secretary's response was not completely clear about the state of the marketing room and its development. It's like the highest. A minister noted in his reply that they had no legal position, yet they actually began as a sort of botanical organization and then, in fact, have most if not all of them were taken to some extent by the rural communities. Yet, their work is of utmost importance. I think it's very important to give them some kind of legal position, and that's why I'm asking a minister again and I'd like to know if she thinks it's a possible way to look at them and their interests in connection with these destination rooms or some sort of implementation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-44.u87	Mr. President. To answer that question first. I agree with the delegates who made the presentation. That's the next step. These plans were specifically discussed at the last meeting of tourism Directors for the next steps in presenting to the public, rural areas, all stakeholders, etc. because if it is not done, it will be difficult to move on. Then I want to say the word. A senator of the marketing offices and their work, of utmost importance. I think it's on the ground so we can't stay without the market room, and they probably have no support, and I think people in general are aware of the importance of each one of them. The way the market agencies develop and possibly change, receive a possible legal role, is a major project that would call for a large conversation, both with the marketing institutions and other institutions in this system, because of that in our system. That they are themselves, and are different, and their ways are different. Then there would have to be some solidarity as to which to play and where to play, including the switch, costs, such as the cost. State and rural society, local companies. It varies from market to to how much of the local company pays for them, etc. For this new role, I'm very open to see how we can combine it because I don't want to see but another thing around the market and side by side with everything else to play a role in this, which will have to be financed and always some stock expenses, etc. [[The president calls.]] It's obvious that there are interests that go together.
