ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u1	Borist has a letter from Ásmundur The Einar Daðason of David that he can't attend next week. So today, at the Council of II, a deputy of the National Assembly's National Assembly is Lilja Rannveig, but 1st Sigurgeirsdóttir has announced a prejudicial disaster.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u2	The Lilja Rannveig Sigurgeirsdóttir has already been investigated and agreed, but she has not taken her place before in the General Assembly, so it has to be signed to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u3	Lilja Sigurgeirsdóttir Sigrgeirsdóttir has signed her commitment to the Constitution and is welcome to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u4	Borist has received a letter from the Sea Scourges and Agriculture Ministers, Transport and Regional Ministers and Health Ministers requiring deadlines to provide written answers to panel requests. 456, for the prohibition on the import of fresh meat, from Steindór Vindi Jón's Valdimarsson, and on the threshing floor. 438 and 439, about the number of law-employed employees from Karl Gauti Hjaltason.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u5	End of the 3rd. About the 2019 budget. Today, spokesmen of all councils speak, and each receives up to seven minutes. V.E.G. The Secretary of Economics and Economics then ends the discussion with the same lesson. Those answers will not be allowed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u6	Mr. President. Now, at the beginning of December, just a year after the bill was submitted two years ago and just after we discussed a bill for financial gain under unprecedented conditions, an assembly without much more activity. There is no doubt that what we have done is now more thought - provoking and better prepared than it was a year ago. For the first time, financial and financial bill integration has been achieved. This bill further established the policy established by the government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, with its government covenant, and we see instead by the financial bill that we approve of. Two o'clock. I stressed the position of the state's funds and the transformation that has taken place in the financial affairs of the State. Debts have fallen dramatically, and we have another opportunity to build up and improve our welfare system. All of this can be seen evidence in the bill now provided for final payment. Hv. The chairman of the Economic and Business Committee then spoke in his speech on December 5 of that year. by permission of the President's office on the part of the council: We can debate over whether the glass is half-full or half-empty, but we must be happy when the state's status is heard by the state's trust which recently purchased a debt of Iceland's Secret Bank totals a total of 24 billion, so the total debt of the state is now 843 billion or just about 30% of land production. A state fund clean on the basis of government law on government funds, i.e. So when funds and deposit have been withdrawn from the total debt, some 653 billion are involved. This is 23% of GDP and has been completely replaced in the financial affairs of the past few years, which is a source of great joy. This is a cause for joy, especially for young ones who observe that we as older ones have stopped making money. We've stopped taking the standard of living for generations to come. On the contrary, we're building again. There is good news, something we should promise ourselves, and especially the younger ones, that we will continue to do faithfully. This is the core of the economy that we cannot lose sight of. This is the basis for us to function as best in this General Hall, that we play the most important role in our community. Thus, it is important that we succeed in placing responsible financial laws and standing in the setting so that everything is going very clearly. In recent years, there has been a nice share in the pursuit of government funds. It's a fundamental matter for a growing economy. It is a fundamental and economic function of any day to be inhibited in overfishing and encouraging in the contractions. In order for us to be able to perform this balanced role, we must have the courage and courage to control the cost of growth. Whether it was, we have truly had to increase our expenses for the welfare, education, and transportation of our community. It is important that the improvement in the state's debt has given rise to the opportunity to change the burdensome interest costs to better health systems, to better education, to the strong welfare systems, and to renew the building of the elements that create the future economic growth of our society. Economic growth is essential for progress and offenses so that we can meet challenges for the next few years. They're big. I speak as an example of the rising age of the people we celebrate, of course. Not to mention the major climate challenge. In this bill, the first steps are taken on that great and big task. However, I would like to recall here that it is time to take responsibility. I have repeatedly told from this talker to struggle to bind more than we are free, to reach the equations and parishes, can also be a valuable opportunity to trust and strengthen national settlements throughout the country. This requires a new approach and recognition of opportunities for our country. No one is suggesting that we have increased expenses at the highest level. I hope we haven't gone off the edge, but we're not there very long. Such growth in this bill and the funds that we now agree to and approve last year cannot continue. Yet, many of us here do not feel that we have enough extra expenses. The other side of all of this is an increase in tax recovery that prepares these expenditures. In fact, this hall has even offered suggestions on further tax recovery, further expanding, and a significant increase in expenses. Then you will not forget to recall here that the most popular funding of all good works is to raise the cost of fishing. How many times have we spent the crowns we're supposed to be able to go fishing, talking about a budget bill during this fall? President. I do not record how many billions of us have made up for the necessary and urgent matters. It is pointless if people do not personally feel that this has become a turning point. I mention once again, though, that debt has dropped. And if we paid similar interest on our loans now and five years ago, we would not lay 30 billion dollars. for the well - being of the world, for education and for the maintenance of a road system, to name a few. It is also sobering to consider that after raising money for social security on the rights of some 70 billion in five years, it would appear that in general discussions there were few who gained their benefits. How important it is, then, that we deepen our discussion, hold back nothing, and continue to do better and better with those who are still in the lowest terms! It also teaches us that we must be much more preoccupied with how we use the taxpayers'funds. Well, it's their money. A respectable president. All of this is based on a strong and strong business life here. We can expect less economic growth than the last few years. So it is important that this bill is creating a frame and preparing for the next collective agreements so that we can and the job life can build it on a real foundation. The government of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir was formed for the restoration of infrastructure, for the increased well - being and responsible economy. This is confirmed by the handling of the budget bill today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u7	Mr. President. In addition to a government contract and a financial plan, financial laws are a prime clue to the priorities of governments. The government covenant was illustrated with lofty goals. It was to reach a lengthy social reconciliation, increase the equation, and attack the massive infrastructure. But when a financial plan was published, it fell upon the money. Government groups differ too much from the political spectrum so that optimistic hopes for positive things can come true. The budget was based on sand, including ... duetoan overassessment of the stability of the crown. In addition, the budget of the budget was to reduce the consumption as a proportion of land production despite the promise of a large infrastructure and the changed population's age composition. The labor unions severely criticized the plan, and it was called for poverty and misery. Despite many warnings, however, the government acted on its own and presented a faulty financial bill. In good health, groups that had sat behind for many years should be too small. Community investors are too small, and there is nothing more to pay for promises or to be able to protect the welfare system when it begins to cool off. A few days after the introduction, it was also found that everything was wishful thinking, that money began to drop, and that it was the basis of a bridge. However, the bill was pushed forward without more of the legal committee's contribution made some adjustments. When it was 2nd. was the first thing that was done. The government itself made bad bill worse, reduced donations for disability, for the elderly, for housing support, nursing homes, high school, and so forth. The public body says in its current review, with permission: It is obvious that current government policies are insurmountable when the economy slows down. Iceland's public relations will never accept that employees, older people, and microlooms will be made to shoulder the burdens of irresponsible government policy. It is unacceptable that governments fail to meet the demands of the labor movement and use the opportunity to operate on the grand tasks that await; to build up a standard of living, to strengthen the welfare of the public, and to provide good housing for the people at an affordable level. To tell you the truth, the government would see itself and pull the fall back. She had plenty of time to do so, but she does not listen to the people. We in here will soon celebrate Christmas holiday and our table will bend, but a great many of the anxiety Christmases. In fact, it is absurd to observe a government socialism that has little to do with the labor movement as we face 25 years of hardy talk, and he even tries to justify very great things. Microbourage contributions decline from what was announced two months ago. The nursing home still needs to live in unsuspecting conditions, as well as health care facilities in the country. There is no such thing as massive housing activity, and housing support is even slightly reduced from year to year. There is still evidence to increase the rate of child improvement in intermediate groups, and a lower amount will grow up next year than it did in the current year. The elderly have to wait, and the hospital service needs much more money to meet the goals that governments have set for themselves in this category. It is shocking to see the lack of effort to meet those who are in the worst standing and unwilling to take action against inequities. The government does not take any note of the multiples and new outcomes of major world institutions that show that communities have the best results of the vast equation. There's economic growth, there's progress. And equations are the best guarantee of prosperity and peace. There's no field game here. We need to make sure that a more reasonable exchange of delinquency, caused by oppressive people and technological advances, will result in a more reasonable exchange. If the government's understanding of problems between low and even middle income workers is not increasing, it will simply be very difficult to achieve new labour agreements. The labor movement and the job life have simply said that housing benefits are the key to success. But then it's not enough just to start another working group. The union has provided solutions to the eight - unit housing problem, with and after indications from rural, labor movement, and camp loans. They're waiting here for release, but the minister of the seminar did not even drive himself into a church hall, either to listen to the story or to participate in a discussion. These last few years have simply been burned up by an increase in housing costs. We need to ensure that the public interest in the remuneration of the remuneration is superior to the interests of the people. It is simply unscrupulous to give billions of Christmas gifts while contributions to vulnerable groups are limited between discussions here. In terms of taxes, the answer to the demand for an increased equation is missing. Since 2004, the minimum wage has been increased while the weight of the highest paid has been lost. No attempt is made to unwind this as if it had been planned for a VG in the government. Mr. President. The union has proposed adjustments that aim to correct bad laws and suggest a little more justice. We've suggested ways to finance them without increasing the burden of low- or intermediate-to-motive workers. Our criticism and change are primarily based on the fact that we are completely offended by the groups who have done so pretty badly, who do not end up together, and who find themselves in terrible trouble if something unexpected happens. They have not enjoyed good things in recent years, like the rest of us, who make a huge amount of money. In short, we offer increased contributions to disability, to start a university, to the elderly, to child support, to health institutions across the country, to nursing homes, and to fight taxes. At least it's gonna happen. sociable people in the hall agree. Mr. President. Finally, I'd like to advertise a government vision that holds the control of the sun when we're on the run into a future that needs most, not least based on originality, prowess, and innovation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u8	Mr. President. These budgets are an unsolved budget on the most basic topics we see in society. During the period of a fear - inspiring need of housing, the only solution to the government is to add to a housing support system that doesn't work, a system that separates thousands of people from growth reforms that truly need them. In this, as in so many other things, the government has no idea of solutions. These are the system's dreams, the government breaks down and bends towards the growing system. Top of the category to expand the hatch is the Independence Party, a company that says on election days: Get out with the booth. Of course, his only goal is to be in power, even if he has to go into one bed with socialists. This is a class that gave up his ideals for power. While hundreds of people are waiting for replacement surgery, the clinical situation must not be negotiated to shorten the waiting list because the clinical program is a private donation. Action in the clinical world costs the same thing as at the Land Hospital. It is not a socialist to support hardworking people, and of course the Independence Party agrees with that. The medical community is nothing but dropping into a new hospital in the wrong place, at the same time that nothing is done to solve emergency problems caused by the lack of nurses, a problem that cost the state funds 2.5 billion this year. Health services in the country are still under way. The efflux problem has not been solved, older citizens cannot get home. There is no need for a home nurse, a home service for the elderly. The middle class moved the change in its proposal. Of course, the government did. This costs a lot of money to society. The hospital cannot use its efficiency properly. There are no options for the government. Nothing has been done for the upcoming collective agreements that everyone agrees to become difficult. The bank costs are still decreased, in addition to the expected reduction of the bank tax. The insurance companies are now being added. They also need a decrease in government fees, and at the same time, they can't raise their pensions to older citizens, so that they will comply with pay development as they are required to do the law. More important, the government decides to cut down contributions and reduce the fees on the banks, but to raise those less fortunate in this community. That's government priorities. That is the priorities of the Government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir. Farming is on the back as early as possible for the sovereignty anniversary. When the foundation is strong food production and food security, the government is not interested in agriculture. The structure of nursing homes is not consistent with the growth in this group. The government has no solutions, no solutions, no more than the previous day. The carbon taxes are dead. He is not fair enough to level the population. There is no total policy on how Iceland will use carbon expenditures in the battle against climate change without affecting the land or the competitiveness of industry and reducing the energy of the economy. The important measures for the specialisation will be canceled next year. In recent years the prices of property in this country have gone up substantially. In the middle of the housing problem, the government has decided to drop authority on the use of property savings for the apartment purchases and the deposit of apartment loans. The government's decision is unwise and contrary to the proposal of a staff appointed by the prime minister in June 2017. The central category suggests a change in the bill that the warrant for the use of special property savings to the apartment purchases and the subsidies of apartment loans will be extended indefinitely when the directive is to expire in the middle of the next year. This is an important tool, especially for young people. Mr. President. These are the financings of lost tools. The priority order is wrong. The emphasis on tax matters is more important for financial, banking, and insurance companies than for the people of the country. The middle class has moved practical adjustments to solve the problem. Of course, the government has not been able to support them. The middle class does not support these budgets.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u9	A respectable president. At this point, the General's material coverage of the 2019th budget is nearing its end. A financial committee has been working on the case since its late September 11, and has had a different plan of budgeting in the autumn than in the last two autumns when they were cooked together in a few haste after elections. The work on the Committee has been great and kind under the leadership of what? paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór, son of Þórsson. Although we and the smaller section will discuss some of the priorities and practical steps to take, the work has worked beautifully on the committee. On January 1, 2016, almost three years ago, the government law was approved. Since then, there have been four financing billes, two elections. Now, for the first time, we're picking up land with this job, i.e. that the same government will create financial policies, financial programs, and then budgets on it. Then, for the first time, we were also given the assignment that the economic forecast was not merely a bone - bone - in - bone process between the 1st and the 2nd. So we had to act, and I think we've managed to land it very well with responsible tactics. These other budgets of the government of Katrín's Jakobsdóttir are, as I do not tire of saying, parish laws. We last spoke before the election about an increase in contributions to social projects of some 40 ◯50 billion during the term. Now, just over a year later, we have done so and have done much better. The increase in expenses is nearly 90 billion for social projects, and it's good. It is a pleasure to see that the gap between the sources and the funds we discuss have rarely been less. We want to make decisions made by the General. There are a number of factors in the law, and it is difficult to discuss in brief. But what I want to draw out in this storm is what has been less attention and coverage. In addition, I would like to emphasize what I am especially happy with in these laws. Of course, it is a joy to be able to expand large - scale donations for communication. This is in harmony with our government covenant and indicates that we are doing what we say we are going to do. While it is always good to be able to do even better in transportation, our priorities are clear. We want to increase security and build the network around the country. The main theme of these budgets is action in terms of equations and low income groups in society. In communities, people feel better. Children go better at school when the dominant theme is in the community. The steps we took last year by raising the fiscal tax by 2 percentage level rhyme well with the steps being taken here, by tying the top step of income tax to the same index as personality discount, by raising the child's compensation for low-cost families, and by increasing personal recovery over price increases. We want people to have equal opportunities, so we press on. The culture is what binds us together as a community. Regardless of the economic situation in their family, all children should have access to culture. Hence, in the summer, the General agreed to set up a children's culture fund that is financed in these funds. However, the greatest campaign case in the last two elections is undeniably a health system. I dare say that none of the voters more than the take-off is being run by a powerful official health system. They are greatly improved, and new hospitals are finally being built that meet the challenges of the 21st century, but there are also many other measures that are in the interests of a powerful health system. We're going to promote national health care so we don't have a big problem. We can immediately see what it means to make it easier for people to consult a physical therapist. This is one of the reductions in the incidence of disability, including disorders of the musculoskeletal system. I hope that the same will happen by making it easier for people to consult psychologists and cross - color mental - health professionals. This will hopefully reduce the loss of working ability as a result of spiritual illness. It is the right of people to earn a living, and we as a community must be able to seize those who need help and bring them to health. In this regard, I would like to mention a small task that a financial committee decided to strengthen and support. It's Jónsver's project on the armed forces. It is not a place of work for people with limited ability to work that was set up by an older citizen's partner on arms and self - preservation. There are people working according to the ability to repair clothing and, in fact, anything, with ideas of producing more specialized products for nursing homes. The idea of this is something that we must want to look at when we consider how we can give people the opportunity to do appropriate work. It is human right to be able to earn a living and to have an active share in society. Of course, this is no universal solution for people with impaired ability, but it may be part of the solution and other such projects. Same hurt is the support of the legal committee to the Afghan Team in Akureyri. It has a priceless job to do in behalf of the victims of sexual and domestic violence. In our fight against violence in the community, society is like a force of key players, and it is important that we provide them with funding and explain as well as the goals, as it seems to be done in a Congress resolution proposal for action against violence and its consequences. It refers to the use of Björkism as a model for the creation of a service center for the tolerability of violence in a northern country in cooperation with partners and institutions. Iceland and I depend on the environment. We use resources to build this community. Although growth is the greatest in anything else, we still rely on sustainable use of land and sea resources. Hence, it is happy that the Council agreed to begin building a new ocean - research vessel that meets the challenges facing, expands the study of acidification of the sea, and enables us to pursue the stupidass research of the marine resource. Its first steps are financed by these laws. Then we will take on a historic environmental challenge. The metal party has never had so much more. We are going to work on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by implementing specific measures, e.g. building structures for electric cars all over the country. We are taking on extensive initiatives in the recovery of wetlands, recovery of birch forests, deforestation, and forestry. These projects are a generation project, and it is time to begin. Iceland's forest is a remote dream today, but by attacking a major campaign over the years, the foundation is laid to improve the quality of land here permanently. A respectable president. Finally, I'd like to state that this other budget of the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter is clear evidence of improvement in all areas. [[The president calls.]] We're moving ahead in the interest of welfare and innovation, in the interest of health and education, in the interests of the public. These are parish laws, which have been a delight to work on a financial committee and support.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u10	A respectable president. I am a little quiet after the last talk here. There are many things to do. These budgets and financial programs based on them are all said, in view of the laws on public finances, aimless. There is no cost plan. Our goals are inexplicable, and they are based on financial contributions that we do not really know what the results will be. While environmental values are being set up, the project is also enormous. The meetings of the Environment and Transport Committee and the financing have been discussed with the Commission that we're showing up at a level of 12 to 20 billion dollars. the cost of buying carbon dioxide in the near future is because we cannot measure up to our international commitments. That's in one year. At the same time, we bring in 6 billion on a five - year financial program. It is hoped that the 6 billion will get us to the point where we do not have to buy carbon parsley as we are heading for it. There is no evidence to suggest that. Experts say that there is nothing to suggest that we can fulfill our commitments, and hence we need to make progress in this cost. I wondered, " Wouldn't it be very obvious to say that we take good action in the environment, but it's far from enough steps, far from the prospect of us? ' There is also much to say about our welfare. There are various amounts of money that have flown there, talking about records, etc., but there are some comments that will be made. It has been reported in the ASI report. in recent decades the rate of taxation has increased dramatically. This has often resulted in a high level of procreation on the table, which is distributed differently among income groups. In the income groups where tenants are, where rent costs have increased by nearly 100%, perhaps double since 2011, they will eat up all the potential benefits of that group, if not better. As in many other areas, better numbers are needed for us to be better informed about what really is being done. It is always said that there is so much money gain in general. There is no analysis of the location of the cost of growth. You would think that there was some measure of terror about how it goes down. Because if the increase in revenue is the same for the lowest income groups and for the highest income groups, it is much less than that. The increase in rent prices is high. There's a lot more than that. The situation is very obvious. The discussion of the budget has referred to 69 C.E. law on social security, which states that the improvement in social security should change annually according to each budget. Their decision should take into account pay development, although it will never increase less than the price of the consumer price. The Law took effect in 1997, and then, since 1998, this has occurred seven times. Seven times the social security benefits have increased less than the index price of that year. Five times - five times in those 20 years, the improvement in social security has increased more than both pay development and the index price. The difference there seems to be according to a rough calculation - it would be nice to get official confirmation of it and more precise calculation, but it's such a gross calculation--let's tell us that it's about to happen. 50% of the amount paid for social security was two decades ago and the current one. To be law 69th, the children would need to be 50% higher now. Social security, 50% higher. That's what it says. On top of the budget and into the campaign for the last two years, it is becoming increasingly apparent that we are left behind in a number of areas after the collapse. The financial laws clearly indicate that. There's going to have to be an increase in the world because we tightened the jam chairs in the crash and released quite a number of projects. Our mission is to get into our heads now, in a certain way of life, e.g. In the transport system, it is up to 60,470 billion. It costs us money to keep them in debt. We are paying up money debt at full speed, which gives us a clear and clear view of our return interest costs. We do not see it in the inner debt we have. That is why I believe that we do not place as much emphasis on that debt as we should be doing because that debt is a heavy burden. In the end, I'd like to talk only about the laws in general. For the first time, we have a government that has financial policy, financial planning, and money directly thereafter. The transparency of this budget bill is literally nothing. You are always surprised to learn how various contributions in the budget are interpreted, last for the Research Fund, which is blessed to be adjusted so that the legal rights there are clear. But we've had to hear about third party what the sum of the budget really means, that's not clearly shown in the budget itself or in the financial context. We don't know any numbers that are in the budget bill after all. I just ask the simple question: Why should the General agree to the budget when we don't know what the numbers mean?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u11	V.E.G. President. We're at the end of the 3rd. the budget bill for 2019 C.E. As in the law, the changes we saw in the 2nd. and then suggestions for a larger part of the arraignment. Legal committees at 2nd and now through 3rd. no effect on final result of about 1% of gross domestic product. Of course, in November's Hagues' projections, there were no big news, in fact, stable economic growth, but the rate of inflation is slightly higher than 3.6%, mainly due to the weakness of the crown, instead of 2.9% in earlier predictions. Thus, it was not a matter of major economic changes but rather evidence that we were looking to what might be called a balance growth and that the next loss is important. Economic growth is predicted to be 2.5% 2019 instead of 2.7%, according to the June prophecy and the terms on the budget. Compared to this, we have a much more efficient economic growth of 2018 and 3.8% of economic growth, which is mainly explained by a year's economic growth than predicted, which would be 2.9%. So, in spite of all of this, we entered the year 2019 C.E. on a larger source of values. What I wanted to say is that the overall impact of this on the 2nd and 3rd. has very little. The overall effect is actually no if we consider the final objective of 1% remaining. So the plans shown in the bill to continue building wood have not changed. This, however, is the first time that we have experienced a change in this direction since June into November, and we have experienced the face of being on the floor of the State Policy. It may be a positive look if we look at the economic situation we are in and the responsible actions and discipline that this calls for, to stay at the same conclusion of positive yields of 1% of GDP. That's what I'm saying because it's in the bill that there's a significant increase in cost, also in order to maintain moderate interest. This will help in the situations that we live in maintaining a high level of employment and the reasons for improving the quality of life standards as planned, and some would like to call soft landings from the long continuous economic growth that we have lived in since 2011. But is it right at this point of the economic swing to increase government spending, as here is indeed being done? That is what you can ask yourself. As I described, the answer is: Yes, economically it is reasonable in the context of achieving balance. It is also important in the context of drawing forward a more stable position of the Kingdom treasure than for years because we are going to continue on the same path, to increase the infrastructure, and to pay at the same time down debt, and to reduce the burden of Kingdom interests. The current policy allows us to increase our government spending today. That is why it is a joy to see that we remain in that course. There is a reasonable national policy in this place for the economy, and it makes sense to the economic outlook that forecasts. The journey to the highest. The government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter established with confirmation of the Law covenant here in the second legal act during the first year of work. As economic stability continues to occur, the extensive infrastructure is motivated to improve health systems and to meet the cumulative demand for transport and increase emphasis on the structure of education, research, development, and innovation. Is your plans being made to make more money? Yeah. No one can slide through the numbers in this bill. And nothing has changed since the bill through three discussions and changes I made at the beginning of my talk. A respectable president. It is important to remember that we are on the move to do this now and that is fine. However, in view of the discussion that we are mainly concerned with the increase in expenses, I would like to say that it is important to look to the extent of what the funds will provide and the need to develop a set of standards in order to achieve a steady reassessment of the budgets and to improve government management to maximise the yield of the money we contribute and thus to support the basic systems of society. Is that how we understand all that was put on the table? No, it'll probably be late. The discussion is often about numbers, but we know that in the end it's about people. Rather, we need to focus on such projects as building a nursing home, strengthening their operating grounds. If I look at them, I'll see them in the process and the agreements ahead. We need to make good use of the money to improve the quality of disability, and we need to look after the older populations that have failed. Despite the increase in funds that are truly going to the hospitals and health institutions, we need to strengthen the local health facilities and take special note of the population and the number of tourists that have increased, such as Southnes and Southland. Our missions will not leave us, and work will continue. Improved living rates and increased equations are not just goals; they are necessary and the economic benefits, for democracy, for reconciliation, and for society. A respectable president. I'm sorry for going ahead of time. Finally, I thank you for the good and helpful discussion, and especially for my colleagues. A budget for a good job.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u12	Mr. President. There is little better mirror on the government at any given time than on its own budget. Few things shed more light on what the government really stands for. And what kind of government is this, judging by her laws? It is an irresponsible government, despite all talk of responsibility to the government of government. In spite of all the talk about the importance of the eco-efficiency of the economy, this government has shut down every centennial budget in its lifetime. At the same time as the Navy rises in its struggle with increasing inflation, the government works directly against the aims of the money policy through an unfunded expansion. The public pays for their irresponsibility with larger interest and higher inflation. The secret bank is then left alone with the responsibility for the money policy. In this irresponsibility, the government is all a step forward. The government then crowns its irresponsibility by violating the goals of its own financial policy and thus becomes the first government to do so since the new laws on public finance were adopted. The government's talking at the same time about how great a currency is, only if we follow the rules of the economy, but in the word, the government violates these same rules. The lack of responsibility is complete. This government has no credibility in the economy. Mr. President. This is the government of special interest, and this government is a very special guardian of the expert interests. The government reduces the demand by 5.5 billion at the same time as it reduces energy expenditures between discussions. The government contributes to 400 million. K. subsidies of the publication at the same time as it does not ensure the maintenance and maintenance of nursing facilities are cut down despite the delay of nursing waitings as never before, at the same time as housing support for the most harvested groups decrease between years, at the same time as cannot be taken under health payment of health care services, and so on. A clearer explanation of the priorities of this government cannot be made. The interests of the production, one of the most profitable jobs in the country, are considered above the interests of the welfare system. Despite the fact that the dollar divides the country into two social groups, those trapped in a country of crowns with the expected interest costs, inflation and gang folds, and those who have the means to play and benefit from the repeated swings of the crown. All the clearer things about this government's special interest management cannot be. Mr. President. It's a government policy and isolation policy. This government fears little more than employment freedom, whether in view of its fear of marketing solutions, in terms of the decision of hunting costs or its fear of increasing its freedom in the import of agrienvironmental products. The government fears little more than free competition. For example, without making the slightest effort to assess the impact of such subsidies on the competitive environment in which these companies or sectors work. All talk of a government that bridges wide in the political spectrum is empty. Whether you look to an independent party or a left greener one, the government is a perfectly compatible government. This is the government of state health care. The government has set up a series of military measures against the unique health issue, and the ill will of the government on the private part of the health system is not secret. No practical advice will be found there. No attempt is made to demonstrate the economic or economic benefits of this policy for the financial wealth. On the contrary, in many cases the cost of a government fund is no doubt greatly increased by this policy, as excessive cost and inexpensive services are being cut off. The government is attacking expert physicians, cutting down contributions to the United States, and a number of other health - care programs that have made good results. Instead of using private resources in this country that are fully capable of performing this service, these measures will be more practical. Other examples might be drawn. The government has no vision of the practicality of health care systems, the combined benefits of public and special resources to ensure the inhabitants of this country's best service in the most practical way. It's the government, not the performance. It is widely spoken of as being large in all areas, but its declarations cannot be realized. Thus, despite all the financial joys in this financial bill, road maintenance contributions are far below the demand. If we take an example of the educational system, there are no plans for further contributions to industry and occupational studies, despite repeated declarations of the opposite. In fact, industry and occupational education gain less than any other level of education. It cannot be seen that the government's policy in these matters is greatly prosperous. The stage here is set for a great show of big plans, but unfortunately, we see that the economic premates will not survive the same level of taxes in this country. It may be the biggest deception of this government, but it does not speak frankly of the need for a tax increase to be fulfilled in the promises the government has made. In an effort to remedy the biggest misdeeds of this budget, responsibly adjustments are made. We propose a drop from 400 million. K. reimbursement at the expense of bookmakers, to raise an increase of 150 million donations to hospitals in the country. A.J., 200 million will be paid to Medical Insurance. K. ... toworkin the country'sdivisional operations, up to 500 million. K. will be provided to build up nurses, to make contributions to the Autosaving Home an increase of 59 million, and to obtain some 1,200 million in old age and disability pensioners. K. to ensure a minimal increase in cost between years, as well as an increase in contributions to the cancer community by 70 million. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] At the same time, there will be an opportunity to make a special contribution to the division of the Ministry of Health and to reduce contributions to it by 162 billion. K. [[The president calls.]] These are not big changes, but hopefully they will improve the appearance of the budget. [[The president calls.]] At the same time, efforts to reduce fishing costs are expected to fail.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u13	A respectable president. We're talking about the budget. It's the final source of the budget. At first, what said? paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson was strong, but unfortunately, there is a large black spot on the expenses of a government fund. Another year, the most needed help is left behind. It is evident that the budget of the government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, will not pay the worst price for a single cent. Legal correction of social security payments is not an increase, as the government's representatives have repeated, which is, in fact, shameful, and especially when it does not hide that there is only an index correction. It is unmistakably that the ideals of micro- and low-employers and older citizens mentioned among them are inconformable to the general standard of living in the country. We are talking about a large group that brings life in desperate poverty into the massive poverty trap as never before, and that is, by the government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, who has accepted that poor people can no longer wait for justice. What do you want to say to someone who comes to you and says, "I get $29,000." I'll be paid but to pay off my debts for this month's match, I'll need $260, $21,000. More, and isn't there in this food and clothing? I ask: How in the world can we make this offer? At the same time, this person should be increased by 3.6%. Not even a fraction of this difference, $21,000 if these laws and regulations apply. Let us see that it was King Davíð Oddsson, then prime minister, who said in 1997 the words of the court, with permission of a president: The consumption index should not be sufficient. It should also be taken into account, in particular, to have criteria for the development of the salary and, of course, can be done only when there is a better chance for the development of the salary than the index price. Has this been observed? What's the situation now? The pay sheet is 6% and should go to disability plus 3.6%, i.e. 9.6%, but all they get is 3.6%. Once again, this is being broken, once again attack is under way. The other thing that's even more ugly is that people get paid legal pensions. How it is used? Yes, to harm those needing it, those at the lowest wage and benefits, especially the elderly and the desperate pensions. It is used to reduce equals from 63% to 100%. We'll pay $181,000 for a Christmas bonus to the council. But what did I have for a Christmas bonus when I was outside the council? 6,000. Why did I only get 6,000 bucks? Christmas bonus? Because my pension fund, which I had to pay for, was used to cut a Christmas bonus. Who does that? Governments over the past few years. The message is: You will be reduced and taxed, not to poverty, but to severe poverty - and it is for the government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir. The funds contained 4 billion, now 2.9, and this is a waiting situation. Who is this supposed to be for? Yes, it is. It is. But it's waited. Would any other groups of society find themselves in such a situation? No, it's only a fraction of what everyone has promised. All classes have promised to receive a crown away. Where are the goodies? There are none. How remarkable it is if we look at how this has been changed recently! In the past year's pay sheet, it means in English that from 20101⁄2017, 74,000 were given to the poor and older citizens. increase. But what did we get at the council? 581,190 k. That's more than half a million more. Which group would have needed more? The people's party has provided a bill that's supposed to be paid $300,000. Minimum wage, i.e. tax and inadequacy. It is tragic that the government does not see its own worth in taking care of this justice and immediately implement it. Our priorities in the collective budget are out of harmony with the needs and wishes of the people of the country. We are to show respect, and respect is being asked here at the Council, but as we treat our worst brothers who are in this society, we are not getting this respect. A group of people puts people first, not the few chosen ones here. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u14	A respectable president. It is a pleasure to be able to deliver the budget for 2019 as in time as we can see. It's in harmony with the Convention Act, which says the application should be made to the 3rd. No later than the end of the first week of December. I'd like to come here at the end of the discussion, thanking the board for her cooperation and the council for ensuring the conduct of the case on time because, as always, there are many things to do. Here, at the end of the discussion, people have given a general discussion about the bill, which in itself is probably a matter of fact, but I'm impressed by the contrast between the views of the government body today. This is especially evident in terms of expenses, but it is also evident on the income side. The situation is that in the budget we now pay, we increase the budget by less than 5%, which is a significant increase in expenses and, in part, they owe it to the people who have come up here to say that they have to be careful in the interest of interest. I can agree with that. On the other hand, the cost of land production is not growing, and this is a good reason to improve the quality of many topics. We need to do better than that, and we are doing better in transportation. We are in a special effort. We are better able to strengthen the health - care sector in the country, which covers everything from mental health care to health care, to large hospitals, and to what is happening in that area. This is further supported by further financial contributions. We also do better in education. We're adding back money to innovation, i.e. In studies and development Research and development grants rise next year. The individual language fields could continue to be counted and indicated, e.g. ... wehaveto subtract these budgets from the budget of the country's employment by reducing the insurance bill. It will reduce to two steps over the next 12 months by 0.5 percentage points, which are approximately 8 billion, which we are relieved of the work done in the country. I don't think it would be possible to benefit from the news ahead of us, how pay ratios have become, and what has diminished the competitiveness of the Icelandic economy in recent years. We also make compromises in reform systems and in the tax. We gain the personal discount beyond what we expect next year. It's pure tax reduction, not extensive, but it's part of a larger operation that the government has proclaimed during the term. Children's settlements go up to those who have a minimum. We support more people, and despite all the words that have failed at the council, we are adding to the funding of the social security system that will enable us to be more supportive to those who are living in the community. Never before have the same amount of money been placed in the social security system. On the other hand, I'd like to say that we can't expect it to grow as fast as it has been in the last few years in the state. You can't have any expectations about it. Hence, it is important for us to focus our eyes on the maximum use of the resources we have. It is in all these great systems to ensure that there is no waste, that every dollar has been turned back before it is placed in every part of our systems so that we can best achieve our goals for first-class health services as well as in education by running competitive education systems from an early level up to higher education and that we are living up here in a practical way in the interests of employment and national society throughout the country. We must do so in order to put our priorities in order to give priority to national projects first. I feel that after giving a budget bill from 2014 to 2015, there is a somewhat new tone in the council, where, in spite of exceptional exceptions, additional expenditures have been called, but this has been the case over the past few years. I think this is because members of the Parliament generally realize that all problems must be considered on the grounds of universal practice, i.e. Not only will all our assignments be solved by adding behind them the funds. It is not always possible to solve some individual matters by means of financial deduction. Rather, we need to make sure that we are taking care of the money we already have. I have to say just as it is, although I have not done much, the members of the council have made it seem quite different to me in the council. In recent years, we have increased the funding of almost all the great systems that we have left behind. The situation in terms of the financial bill we are about to agree with is that the state's position is more solid than it has been for years. The production of land in Iceland has never been more. We rapidly reduce the debt of state funds and achieve our next year's targets of debt. This improved status enables us to attack the infrastructure and improve both social and economic infrastructure in this way. So this is a financial bill that will strengthen us. [[The president calls.]] It's a parish bill, as we've been told, and will lead to a better time for the whole country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u15	A respectable president. I am pleased to see that this bill, this justice, has been given loving treatment throughout the council. In spring, a resolution was adopted at the highest level. Financial and economic minister was assigned to bring a bill in view of the changes to be made on taxes. He did so in November. Now we're in the 3rd. The bill has been designed to stop taxing for the worst, put the groups in society, disability, and older citizens. One strength that I especially want to mention is called gas concentration. A group of very poor people receive a concentration of so - called gasoline, which has been taxed to this point but will no longer exist. The strength to buy a tool has been taxed for this with all its impairments, but it will no longer be done. I think it's a special reason to say that this is not just the people's people's work, even though we've done it. We made that claim, and all the senators took it into their arms. This is our all Christmas gift to this community this year. I want it to be very clear that even though we're a little self-loathing about it, the desperate people, to have established it a little bit like it might have been some kind of a misunderstanding in the system, it should never have been like this, and it would really be unfair. That's what we're all acknowledging together right now. I say to our people in the name of all of us, for I am super-saturated by the wonderful things we can work together, wherever we stand, when we join together, and this case is truly an example of: Merry Christmas and happiness of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u16	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to raise the budget for 2018. 599. The bill presents to the Council proposals for changes in the budgets of various causes and lawsuits due to several specific and unpredictable spendings in the current year, as well as to the proposed changes in the implementation of new accounting standards in accordance with the aim of law on public finances. The proposals in the bill note events based on new legislation, uncertainty and unforeseen expenses, and decisions made by the government on expenses that have been carried out during the past year. However, the biggest changes in this bill depend on the effects of new formats according to the modified accounting method. With law No. For official financial reasons, 123/2015 was a clear policy on the role and content of budgetary laws. Twenty-six. The law states that a minister is authorized to seek additional financial resources in the bill for financial support to deal with temporary, unforeseen and inevitable expenses within the budget, since there has been no way to respond to other legal procedures. In preparing the budget bill, it has been emphasized to handle matters in accordance with the role of financial contributions as defined in the official financial law. This means that funding is not intended to meet the expenses for new projects, increased scopes of activity, or the management of individual causes and lawsuits above the set budgets; nor is it legal to refer to such proposals for the change in budgets for the next year's budget. The aim of this procedure is to increase the responsibility of planning, policy development, and financial management within issues of industry and litigation, and to reduce the need and scope of budgetary law. In addition, budgets for and during 2016 were produced on the basis of older budgets, which included a comprehensive reassessment of budgets with a revised income plan and a review of the entire remuneration gate. In line with the narrow definition of the role of funding in the laws on public finances and the policy of reducing the scale and scope of the budget, they are in two key steps different from previous funds, on the other hand, because there are neither changes to the income side of the budget nor any relevant changes in the funds flows and supply of state funds, and because there are now primarily proposed changes in donations to lawsuits requiring increased funds but not reduced donations to other classes. In some cases, though, technical matters and transfers may lead to a decline in the financial resources of causes and litigation. Then I'll go to the main topic of the bill. As I have come to know before, it is not in general to discuss proposals for a new project or a larger dimension. Rather, it is primarily a budget that was beyond payment or now considered urgent or inevitable. The bill asks that government funds in 2018 be increased by 56.6 billion, corresponding to an increase of less than 7% of total financial resources in the current budget. Intrigued in this increase of funds, however, there are a number of technical spending issues and changes, and there is an increase due to such cases of some 48 billion years. This 48 billion bucks. The increase is clearly explained by the change in budget development in the context of changing methods of accounting. With the exception of technical spending and changes, there is an increase in budgets for other spending schemes of 8.6 billion per cent, i.e. 1% of total budget of 2018. Involved in these changes are changes due to the takeover of pension commitments of 3.2 billion dollars. Except for these, a variation in the standard budget of 0.7%, which is low in historical context, occurs at an average of about 5% over the years in 1998-20088, for example. Such anomalies are in line with the aim of a government law to improve financial management and minimise the magnitude of budgetary law, i.e. to be well less than 1%. A respectable president. As we have seen, changes in technical spending and implementation are increasing in the increase of financial resources according to the bill. So I'm more specific about the motive and role of these changes. For one thing, it is consistent with the aims of a government law. Since the implementation of their laws, it has been working to introduce a new accounting standard and to define its effect on the format and accounting. The results of this work lead to changes in the treatment of pension bonds, but from now on, all the movement of Penitentiary bonds will be increased in the management accounts. It belongs, for example. for changes due to effects on new rights processing in the year, remuneration and changes in insurance requirements. This leads to a total of 31 billion dollars. the increase in pensions in 2018. Then, in line with a new accounting standard, a change in production is expected due to the death of a taxpayer of 18.2 billion dollars. The budget of 2018 expected these scripts on the income side, but according to a new standard, it is necessary to exchange the scripts and thus have to be authorized for expenses in the budget. It should be noted that the changes mentioned above have no effect on the survival of the State Fund, according to Article 1. budget but recovery is stated on the national interest base, called GFS, which is the exception of the aforementioned currency. Next, I'm going to step up other financial increases, but an increase of 8.6 billion is expected to be due to other budget schemes. First of all, a 3.2 billion increase is expected due to the administration of the State of Penitentiary, which includes: is through negotiations with the National Farmers Association of Iceland and other parties. Second, because of reassessment of expenses. The primary factor for birth is the feeding reserve, which is estimated to be 985 billion expenses. K. ... morethan why they're making the budget. This increase is mainly explained by the increase in parental participation and the increase in the cost of each day paid per maternity, such as by changes in salary and increases in maximum pay compared to the same period in the previous year. The increase in religious contributions is expected to be 784 million. K. to establish a church - based agreement between Church and State. The end of the year had been hoped for, but as has been done over the past few years, our commitment to the budget has increased when the contract cycle is not over. Next thing I'd like to explain, the increase in transport spending is expected to be 569 billion. 400 million, on the other hand. K. due to the increased cost of snow mist because of the unusually heavy winter of the first part of the year, and that is 169 billion. K. due to the delay of delivery of the Western island transporter and repair of the Giorese transporter. These delays were simply unpredictable. We'll be of a specific economy that would have brought the Western island a vector, and we'll have to face this cost and the same with the construction of the Gímur Island Center. Fifth, it is assumed that there will be an increase of 500 billion on the money markets associated with the shelterers. K. More than the budget of the current year. However, while unfounded applications have been reduced because of changes in order to do things, the number of applications for international protection has increased. Other budgets in the bill include a proposal of 491 million. K. increase in donations due to contractual increases in payment of EU framework programmes for education, research and technology, as well as 469 million. K. increase in medical insurance costs as a result of a significant increase in demand for physical therapy following a new payment system, an increase in employment markets and unemployment levels of 480 million. K. due to a reassessment of the estimated annual expenses and other budget bindings of a total of 1,080 million. K. Other than that, I refer to further discussion of the bill's spending proposals in comments to individual financial teams. Then I would also like to draw attention to the fact that in connection with the role and scope of the budget, it is in Article 24. a law on the official financial status of the general budget of the A-part of the state's budget. Qualifications for provision from the fund are the same as those that apply to bill for financial support, i.e. it is designed to deal with temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable expenses. General reserves are aimed at dealing with economic, gang- and financial abnormalities and major unpredictable and inevitable expenditures, such as natural disasters, or costs that are not otherwise allowed according to financial laws. The general reserve should be except at least 1% of financial resources, but financial and economic ministers have a general reserve and they decide on how to proceed from it. The 2018 budget accounts for a total fund of 8.8 billion. and is assumed that a total of 7 billion will be taken out of the fund during the current year compared to the post at the end of November, so it is not part of this bill. First of all, an estimated 3.6 billion dollars is expected. to the critical maintenance of the road system, with the aim of improving road safety and preventing damage to the road. Second, a reassessment of the current budget is expected to provide 2.3 billion. Third, it is assumed that some 900 million will be due to a sentence dropped on state funds during the year beyond financial resources. Then I'm going to step on a new bill for financial support. There is a new warrant in Article 3. The bill for reimbursement to Iceland ehf. up to 500 million dollars. K. to address the financial problem of the company due to the reduction of message shipments and adverse international agreements in the field of mail to which Iceland is a party. This suggests a number of sources. The bill. The National Institute of Natural Museums of Iceland is authorized to negotiate a showoff. It is authorized to purchase property because of the construction of Salmon Hall to Glakafstein, and it is also a provision to negotiate the purchase of an Icelandic dictionary, which the Founding of the Year Magnús in Icelandic studies would be assigned to share electronically in order to promote the Icelandic language. Finally, the Office of Economic and Economic Affairs is authorized to make use of the budget that may be made when the State comes through irregular incomes to facilitate the commitment of the state's budget for the B-institution of the head of the state's staff. A respectable president. Before I do what I want to do, I'd like to briefly discuss the planned survival outlook of the current year, along with the changes made in loans. Although the bill does not suggest a change in the income side of the budget or a complete change in the spending side, the simultaneous work of the bill has been prepared to re-evaluate the estimated outcomes of 2018, taking into account the revised schedule since November. as well as a loose review of the major system-based budget teams of the state's budget. Also included are the changes in the budget bill that affect the survival of a trust fund on national interest. It should then be noted that changes in pensional commitments and the copies of tax revenues do not affect the survival of the national economy. It is expected that the income will increase by 5.7 billion from the budget. It is then assumed that the cost will increase by 4 billion. For example, in 2018, the typical basic balance of government funds is estimated to be 99.8 billion. and getting better by 1.7 billion from the budget. In all European comparisons, Iceland's basic government funds have been very high. For a long time, we had the most primitive of European countries, but in recent years some other countries have yielded a very handsome equation. A handsome element has been a complete basis for our success in the financial affairs that we have seen. It is essential that we have been able to reorganize the debt gates and is essential to the trust that the government funds have enjoyed on the loans. It is estimated that the interest rate in GDP will be 36.6 billion, which accounts for 1.3% of gross domestic product. It's about 3.7 billion better than the budget. The success of these plans will be the remainder of a financial policy in the year 2018,2022, adopted by the General Assembly in March. where the target for the rest of the total treasure would be at least 1.2% of gross domestic product during 2018. A respectable president. During the current year, a continuing reduction in debt is expected, although the decline in the years will be somewhat lower than in recent years. The total debt of state funds reached 917 billion by the end of last year. The 2018 budget estimated that the total debt would decrease by 52 billion and 865 billion by the end of 2018. Stocks and bonds of their own stocks in the RIKH 18 category, published to refinance financial institutions following reorganization after the financial collapse, have increased in subsidies during the year. It was 70 billion at the beginning of the year that its post, 9 billion, was paid on the day of the letter in October. The return of RICH 18 was a turning point in which there was a postmark of the last loans directly related to the 2008 financial crisis. During the spring months, state funds purchased their own letters from Iceland's Secret Bank for a total of 27 billion dollars. but they were not expected to buy money. The need for refinance has been greatly reduced next year by these measures. The local version of the State Fund accounts for some 40 billion dollars. During the year and the money exchange is similar to what was expected in budgets, about 10 billion dollars. However, foreign debt has gone up in the year because of a decline of nearly 15 billion dollars. Reevaluations now assume that the total debt of state funds is down by 67 billion dollars. in the year and in charge of some 850 billion dollars. At the end of the year, about 30% of national production. V.E.G. President. I have now considered the key factors of this bill to raise funds for 2018. I suggest that the bill be followed by this discussion referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. The Parliament's budget, and it's going to take care of the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u17	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister over the tour. I have a few questions for him. On page 18. 46 reports that there should be 784 million at a church meeting. It is quite unexpected but pleasant news that the government has changed in the affairs of the churches. Can a minister handle this matter a little further? Also on page 24. 46 dealing with 48 billion increase due to the IPSAS standard. This is a big correction and should have been expected in the 2018 budget, but I think it's pretty clear because there was a budget being made for 2018 to apply the IPSAS standard this year. Then you ask: " Why wasn't it done? ' On page 18. 59 points out that a reevaluation rate is 1 billion. These are interest improvements that didn't work out. Then you ask yourself, " Why have loan rules not been temporarily removed to use this 1 billion to back up people who need a roof over their heads? ' Show it not, topv. Minister, that the system is defective with its impairment and does not take into account the increase in property value? The same is true of reevaluation of GDPs of 2 billion. This money hasn't been put out yet. Why were they not used? Is it not reasonable to let down the rules in order to get this out and reduce the year's impairments? On page 18. 59 reports an increase to 2.5 billion in the hospital because of the design and action needed to cope with it. That is a very large amount, and it would be interesting to know if the highest. Minister has discussed this with the health minister. What will the minister, or government, do to solve this problem? This should, of course, have entered the work of the Committee. I see time is up. I get to ask you some more questions later.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u18	A respectable president. Clearly, it is an error in the case of the printed page when there is trouble. A senator describes the church site because it is well - known that the agreement has conformed to the church meeting. In terms of the IPSAS status, there has been a tremendous task to introduce the situation, and changes in the terms the state has taken up have cost a lot of work, both in the Ministry and in the Commission. As a result, we are gradually building up our ability to set matters up on this new foundation, which these are so solidly based on budgets and budgets. With regard to growth, it is proper that the interests of the people of the country improve faster than they had expected and the factors that mattered, such as income and financial status, developed in a more favorable way than the terms of the budget, resulting in less growth. When things develop on the other side, we add and I don't want to mean that this is a sign that the system is defective. Besides, I don't think that we should have some particular predetermined amount of money that we just have to come out of. We need to create a system of rights for which we will stand. Then there is a plan on what will happen in the next 12 months. So this is true of other improvements in our system, which depend on the same laws, just as it was with interest. Regarding caring for the health - care system, there is a serious issue that we must take care of according to the needs of the health care system. However, it is not necessarily a matter that is isolated from us Icelanders. There seem to be tens of thousands of nurses missing in the North countries. [[The president calls.]] If we allow ourselves to have Britain inside that form, it seems to me that tens of thousands of people are missing into the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u19	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The minister's answers have to say that it is most unfortunate that printing error is in such a vital document, as the minister explained earlier. There's a lot of need to meet the problems the cemetery face, and I expect the government to look at it. Then I wanted to ask the highest. Minister only to the underestimation of pension bonds at the Bridge of Pension. What is behind it? On page 18. 72 reports on the hospital. This means that there is a need to buy services from other hotels. With about 40 million in it, you ask: " Does a government fund need to be costed? Will this be brought to the one responsible for this delay? 491 million are then expected to make the European Union's Framework Plans for Education, Research, and so on. It is said that this is a contract - based raise, and you ask yourself: " How can a contractual rise be unexpected and unexpected? I can't see this belongs in the fundraiser. On page 18. 47 is the takeover of the City of Farmer's Penitentiary, costing 1.9 billion. What is the basis for this agreement to be made beyond, for example. just another employee? Would it not have been reasonable to make an independent assessment of the fund's status and to explain why the situation is? For the Western island, it has to be added to 117 million because of its delay. Who is responsible for this? Will there be any benefits to the shipyard? It would be nice for a minister to come in on that. The same can be said of the Germian vector. These are over 50 million, and it indicates that repairs have been inadequate in 2007,2008. Who is responsible for this? Is the government fund just to settle for paying? Or will you be drawn to the person who did this, which proved to be insufficient?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u20	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for these questions that are very right. There are, of course, conflicting opinions about, e.g. the drop-off. It's just that we're going to have to consider how the contracts have been for the Western County. So here we face expenses and can say that the economy we planned to take off the new ferry will not come to our senses. I don't know the regulations for the construction of the ferry, whether it's arranged for reform. The committee may call for an explanation. The same could be said of the Monster Island Circumcision. There may be opinions, such as what they may be. A senator mentioned if the previously repaired work was defective or not done in the required way. There may be opinions. With regard to frame planning, the changes in order to make money change. I'm just saying the same thing about the hospital hospital, the fuck that leads them to the cost for Land Hospital is a direct cost for Land Hospital. How it goes in the contracts between the manager and the contractors is something I do not have a clear answer to. It does not necessarily mean that at the same time, there was a right to reform. In terms of the pension business, these are often very technical cases that may be considered in more detail. In recent years, we have been overcrowding a great deal of pension commitments by health care providers who have financed much by federal contributions, but this is another kind of matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u21	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The secretary of finance is a well-developed authority in this case. It seems to me, however, that the same problem is being watched over and over again, i.e. We always get extra money that'll spend some extra money that's been created in the state's affairs, potential overgrading space from a improved supply from a budget. That's what we saw at the highest. Government last year, and see this game again now. What I want to stay only during the first cycle is a re-evaluation of the total equation. Here we're looking at a budget of 56 billion, if I handle the numbers correctly, the total balance is said to be better by 4 but there's an increase of 6. I can't get this thing to work. Probably this is explained by some different methods of reckoning. Is it not also unhealthy if we make it through here with any other means of reckoning, but we are supposed to pay the debt of pension as if they actually grow from year to year, but we do not take it into the survival of a government fund? Is it not the beauty of a government fund if the expenses, including these large - scale pension expenditures, are much higher than the one listed here? I can't see how we're going to raise budgets with rising expenses of less than 60 billion, with a plan for growing income of 6 billion, and with the recovery of 4? I can't get this bill to go up, but I can't. A minister may be able to explain to me how this is to be accomplished.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u22	A respectable president. In my earlier history, I covered it quite precisely that the rate change in the year is very low compared to the budget. Then we are talking about a 0.7% pure spending increase, as shown in the bill, very low in historical terms. That's very well, and I'll allow myself to say it because, of course, the budget is very much for a plan of things that are predicting about 12 months in advance. Just so you let yourself take e.g. The two - sided side of the board does not necessarily predict its accuracy, as it has so far. I say the same thing about the budgets we're about to agree with for the next year, our projection of income in 2019 from that time on in the spring. About the question as a boy. So on the basis of which we make up today, a senator brings with it the changes that take place regarding the pension debt do not affect the survival. In terms of tax requirements, there is a change in the format. In the past, that was on the side of the income, but we now take it on the other side, so it's just a clean move. Then, in a very special discussion, what is the best basis for looking at the money. I think there is much work to be done by looking at this national interest base and assessing how public funds as a whole affect economics in the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u23	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The minister's answer agrees with a minister that we need to consider the basis for considering the contribution of the Kingdom Fund. We must always have to do that on the same basis. As far as I can see, taking into account the increase in the pension commitments that we are made to pay according to the new terms of accounting, but the survival of a government fund is not at best any one, that the remainder is somewhat near to zero when it comes to this 31 billion currency, which is then due to the changed accounting protocol. I think it's very important that we're not fooling ourselves about the goods of state funds from one time to the next, because it's a very dangerous example if we then know about the cost of an additional pension commitment that we're supposed to make, but we're somehow looking past the entrance of a whole state fund. Making the books can never be the best thing to do. What I wondered about in the second question is just about a general reserve. V.E.G. When I look at the figures that are here in the sheepfold, such as a church meeting and, in fact, some other departments - the church meeting is known, we took care of it on a budget too last year, so there is nothing unexpected about those expenses in themselves. If we look at how the general reserve has been spent on the side of that government, it has made up a decision on the extra expenses that have been made on a general reserve but will then bring up the budget for which it should have had room in the general reserve, but it had already been spent. Is it not dangerous to set such an example that new budgets can be taken out of a general reserve and then just bring a budget for the council to approve? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u24	A respectable president. As I have traced, in itself, the exact exact same requirement for arrangements taken from a reserve and for a search for financial resources. Similarly, we have established that there are primarily sizes that are moving, such as changes in prices and rights, that come from the reserves. To some extent, the point towards road issues was somewhat unusual. Hence, it was also decided to come to the budget earlier this year and to review the matter in detail in order to ensure full transparency regarding this provision of the reserve, as well as recent reports were returned to a government accountant on that matter. I think a financial committee had dealings with him. The reserves differ in terms of the budgets, so it is less transparent to the council, and I feel that it is a good policy to be in doubt about which side of the budget is better if they go through the funds, where they go through discussions at the council and in committee work that calls for a special approval than the reserve is not dependent. I believe that, in the year 2018, all of this would have been natural. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u25	Mr. President. We're here to discuss a bill for financial support. I have to start by saying that it is not easy for members of the council to go to the work that is necessary before these discussions begin. The document we received yesterday, rather late, was photographed, so it was difficult to work with the lyrics and numbers. This is what I think is very unfortunate, and this must be done by the press. Comments to the bill show that financial contributions will only be obtained in response to costs that have been unforeseeable to finance the budget, but they will show that expenses fall in the year, and government funds will not fail to pay. Thus, these laws should be merely unexpected and inevitable expenses. However, there is not, and I will mention several examples of this. On page 18. The bill 47 shows that health insurance spending is increasing by 469 million. K. Because of the increase in demand for physical therapy, you ask yourself: " Why did a minister not take action to cover the expenses? That's a hell of a lot too much to drive. Did the minister of welfare explain how he was going to ensure that this would not be accomplished? The secretary is the director of this category and must take action. The rules are in this way and they are to respect them. We can ask ourselves, " What would this be like if it were a private company? ' What, then, was the responsibility of those in authority, and how would they accept that responsibility? This is a minister's responsibility. How does the failure to take action harmonize with the laws on public finances? I've only come to the IPSAS facility to ask a minister and to reiterate what I said then, it's a very large correction, 48 billion U.S., and should have been expected in financial terms. In addition, there is the fact that there are backposts due to tax charges of 18.2 billion, which, in part, are due to the modification of rules. This was known, however, and you say: "Why is this in the money box? If the sentence is wrong, you ask yourself, " Is it not true? ' This is my judgment not in the spirit of the law. On page 18. Forty - five million dollars a year. K. due to a court order, i.e. The courts judge in various ways, and some of them fall on a government fund that has to be paid. Then you ask yourself: " Is it not reasonable for a general precautionary approach to a possible loss in judicial matters? There must be a measure of caution, for they know that this will result in a loss of a government fund. In the meantime, I only came to the takeover of the Iceland Baving Association's Penitentiary. It is gathering 1.5 billion sources from the state funds for this, and I think this is a way to settle commitments. On page 18. 47 of the bill states that there are agreements with various health - care organisations. The cost there is about 100 million, and you ask yourself: " Why does the Ministry have to take over 100 million? Why, then, has the Ministry not paid a tax as far as the service is concerned? That would be the right and normal procedure. Then there is a lack of pension debt at the Bridge Pension Fund and the need to review it more closely when the bill leaves for the committee. Transport expenditures are about 569 million. K., of which 400 million are due to a snowstorm. This kind of money is supposed to be in the special reserve of the jury. There's uncertainty and the nature that this is not supposed to be necessary every year. I came to the minister before the West Coast and cost up to 117 million. This is something we have to record on the Committee. Who is responsible for this? Is this the way a government fund is supposed to put out without trying to accept that requirement for someone responsible for the delay that is likely in this instance of the shipyard? The same is true of the Giormite transporter, which has the cost of 52 million, and as mentioned earlier, this repair is attributable to the lack of repair in 2007 and 2008. The person responsible for that repair must have a responsibility, and it would be perfectly normal for the government's funds to take them there. This is something that must be discussed within the committee, who is responsible for these items. It is important that we do so. On page 18. 47 are also discussed about the shelterers and financial contributions for them. The number of applications has increased, and the cost is about 500 million. Then you ask yourself, " Should the Ministry not be able to plan this in the light of what has happened, in the light of experience? ' That's a high value of 0.5 billion. Then there came what I asked a minister of the past, which he didn't actually answer, that 491 billion are expected. K. to the European Union Framework Programme on education, research and so on. At the same time, you say it is a contract, and you ask yourself: " How can something that is treatable be unexpected and unexpected? I think it's a bit farfetched, and that's why it's clear that this isn't even in the budget. Then there is an interesting feature on various other budget bindings of 1,080 million. K. It is necessary to get a list of these, what the amount is and what it is, and I expect it to be by the committee. On page 18. As a result, 54 publications are published that refer to St. John's, a place west of Gaffrastein, that the state's budget is about to be purchased. There is no mention of the price, and a man asks himself: " Why wasn't this for 2019? This year is already over, and the same can be said about buying the rights of an Icelandic dictionary. I would not have thought it was unexpected and unexpected, so it would also only be in financial terms at home. Then I came into what the minister answered back here, reevaluation of the alumni and disability pension. 2 billion were on the move, and they did not go out to the people who truly need it. I think it's very necessary to go over this. What makes this not work? Is this the cause of the damages? As the Central Party has often spoken, it is necessary to improve the terms of this group, which is not at all good, and a considerable number within this group live near poverty limits, those with little rights in this system. The same can be said of the reevaluation of the growth reforms I had earlier come in. There's a 1 billion that doesn't go out. It is obvious that this system is defective, and we have emphasized that there must be a review in the central category. These proportions are to be reviewed. We all know that real-estate values have gone up tremendously, and there is no consideration for the value of property in this system. It has to be changed. No more money can be put into such a system that does not serve its purpose at all. Then there's the challenge of design at the Land Hospital. It has to be put at 2.5 billion. This is a serious problem, and the director of the Land Hospital said at a meeting of the Committee that this was a crisis faced by the National Hospital. They need to sit down and figure out how to solve this problem with the university, etc. to encourage a nurse. The work environment of nurses, job responsibilities, shifts, and remuneration is needed. They must be reviewed in an effort to attract people to this work that is of utmost importance. There we see 2.5 billion at this cost of society. In addition to this, the director of the Hospital noted that there is a predictable tail next year up to 1.6 billion. There is a substantial amount of money, and there must be a plan of some kind on how to handle this. On page 18. 64 is said to finance local courts about 45 million. K. You ask yourself, " What are the consequences of this for the land's rights? ' We need to explain. Is national rights really good for him to be able to handle these matters? It needs to be reviewed. On page 18. 65 is wanted in 45 million. K. permission to deliver the stream of visas, and I say, as it is, that I cannot see that there is no way to need visas. I think everyone's gonna realize that, and that's why it's supposed to be in the budget. Then there's money to the county on account of homemaking. These are new assignments, and of course they have no money. There is nothing unexpected about new projects. The same can be said of the management of the Department of Transport. There's 25.8 billion there. K. Flight advice on flying options in the southwest corner, and of course this should also be in the budget. The same can be said of 20 million. K. contributes to the find-fish project. There is no surprise about that assignment. It's been in the dough for years. On page 18. 71 is 25 million. K. contributes to the national theater in relation to collective agreements in the current year. It would be interesting to know if the Ministry interprets the general reserve so that no new agreements should be paid from the fund but money. This needs to be explained. I arrived earlier at the hospital and on page 30. A total of 2,38.5 million are spoken of. K. contributes to the transport of the National Relations Agency to Kopavogs due to mold. It says that little equipment could be transferred from the old housing to the new one. I don't think there's the mold in the office, but I don't think it's very likely, but it's a lot of money. Then there's a budget of 3.65 billion for important road projects. I can't say there's anything out of sight. We know exactly what the situation is in the road system. There's nothing unpredictable about it, so there's a lot of money in this money, Mr. President, that simply belongs in financial terms. It is only true that the greater part and the government are beginning to abide by the law in these matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u26	Mr. President. The scope of these funds is very high, and surely an explanation is given that part of it is due to a change of opinion. Still, the question may be asked, especially with regard to the pension pay or the bonus on account of the government's contribution to pension commitment, whether it would have been to ensure that this change had been determined, and that this budget would be much higher than expected. On these supplementes, i.e. The pension debt and the written tax returns to about 8 billion for increased expenditures. Most of these expenditures are such that they could be provided either in the preparation of the budget, such as the budget. The church meeting we've been making repeatedly for money, or the right thing to look at was a general reserve. Of course, the government's problem was that the general reserve had been destroyed by personal decisions on increased expenses. This year, several criticisms were received in the discussion of a legal committee on the subject. There were also compelling reasons for that, e.g. On the contrary to anything that would have been provided many years ago because there has been a long period of complaint about a small budget and funds for maintenance projects. It is still so, in spite of the government's spending fee in 2019, that maintenance funds are greatly lacking in view of the accumulated maintenance needs of the road system. It is a question of whether we can expect more training from the government when it comes to the global reserve of 2019 C.E. The short point is that taking up a general reserve in the budget was the will of the legislature to ensure that most of the funds will be no longer available, this would not need, the forwarding of a bill for financial contributions would be unnecessary. The important thing to consider here is, as indicated by the introduction of this financial bill, that funding is intended only for the inevitable costs, including the effects of new labour agreements or new legislation in the year in which it is not possible otherwise to respond under official financial laws, such as transfer of funds between parties and projects within the same category during the financial year or to use the relevant legal reserve to meet higher expenses. Investments are therefore not intended to meet the expenses of new projects, increased scopes of activity, or the management of individual causes and lawsuits above the set budgets, as such legal recommendations to change the budget should be referred to for the next year's budget. I think it will be very interesting to try on these conditions of public financial law at the expense of the government. It must be the topic of budgetors to look carefully at whether this requirement has been met, and perhaps the main question is, Did some measures have been taken to weigh this expense? I think the answer to that question is no, that we simply look up in the same practice, the ones who lived here before the civil law was passed. In terms of money, the additional goods of the Kingdom treasure are simply spent when it is enjoyed. It is not in the spirit of the increased discipline in the government budget that the law on public finances was designed to bring to us. It's the same delirium that was always in the state's affairs and clearly remains on the watch of this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u27	Earlier on December 7, 2018, the chairman of the Council's Committee for Change was announced on the basis of 2 mgr. Section 16. Act of the General Assembly. Sæland Gourand will sit on an Ólafur son of Ísleifsson the Fundament Committee, and Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Isun will take place on a professional committee. Guðmundur Igngi Kristinsson will be taking place as head of Iceland's National Council rather than Ólafur's Ísleifsson, but Inga Sæland. Then Guðmundur In Kristinsson will take up his seat as an assistant to the Western Institute of Iceland instead of Karl Gauti Hjaltason. These changes will be considered approved without a vote if they do not object. Borist has announced a change in the management of the Falcon Party and will become the hag Inga Sæland Vice President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u28	A respectable president. Here we vote for the light in the dark, so to speak, the first step to take from the most unfair taxes and impairments, paying to the poor at the most. This shows that if we stick together and if we are realistic about things, we can do this in more matters. There are plenty of other matters to take care of. We appreciate this as the first step, and I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u29	Mr. President. These financial laws are a betrayal of disability, and older citizens, young people, and middle - class groups are also left behind. Nursing homes and clinics throughout the country are not well off. It will not fail and suffer the staff and those who need their services. In spite of the labor movement's pleas for help with the housing problem, house - to - house support is on its own. A total of 500 bucks is given to employees. In an increase in personal discount, but the big one gets 4 billion from the government. All of the Conspiracy's proposals were reputed to 2nd. Now we make eight adjustments to show how many good things can be done and for many for the amount that the government wants to do in the country. The financial bill does not guarantee social and economic stability, and neither is it determined by the necessary investments in the infrastructure nor by the necessary revenues. It will damage the welfare system of all of us and contribute to the inequities of our country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u30	V.E.G. President. Government Commander. The prime minister of Katrín's daughter, Jakobsdóttir, had plans to strengthen the nation's major infrastructure. This law confirms it. Expenditures are increased in most areas to strengthen society, health, education, well - being. At the same time, this is a wise budget based on economic management. We return the rest, drop debt, and continue to reduce the growth rate so that we can continue on this same journey. V.E.G. President. That's why I support my whole mind on these budgets.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u31	A respectable president. This other budget of the government of Katrín's daughter Jakobsdóttir is the parish law. We talked about before elections last year that there would be an additional amount of contributions to social projects of over 40 to 750 billion. Now, just over a year later, we have done so and have done much better. The increase in expenses is nearly 90 billion for social projects, and it's good. The main theme of these budgets is an equation of action. Our health is the largest subject in the community, and we move forward in all places. We have set out in the construction of a new hospital and have started a large attendance in the construction of nursing homes. We're going to promote national health care so that small problems will not become large, establish mental health problems, to name just a few. But there are other factors. We are launching a historical effort on the environment, campaigning in the recovery of wetlands, recovery of birch forests, deforestation, and forestry. Of course, it is a joy to be able to expand large amounts of donations for communication and communication. All of this is in harmony with our government covenant and is evidence that we are doing what we say. We are moving ahead in behalf of the welfare and innovation of the public. These are parish laws that I love to support.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u32	A respectable president. When we now accept budgets for 2019 C.E., we find a fine situation. The State Fund's standard has, in fact, never been better, no more country production. We've been reducing debt and making plans for the future, reaching our next year's goal in setting up our government debt to 30% of our criteria. It will reduce the burden of growth. With responsible government funds, we make it possible to attack national infrastructure. We are in a great deal of transport, strengthening health, welfare, etc. We also relax at homes in the country with an increase in personality discounts and additional payments for those who have at least a few extra slacks in sensitive times. We reduce the budget of our jobs in the country by taking 8 billion and returning to our companies. Thus we lay the groundwork for maintaining the good conditions that have been in the economic situation in the land. [[The president calls.]] The development of the land can continue on a very strong foundation on the basis of budget of 2019 C.E.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u33	V.E.G. President. The department of these funds targets the poorest people in Iceland who are in need. The best position in the state's budget is not enough to correct the ideals of disability or older citizens. The best position in the state's budget, however, lies in subsidizing the expenses and taxes of finance so that their owners and rulers have a merry Christmas, which is fine, on behalf of the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, while the poorest people in Iceland still have to wait for justice - in accordance with the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. All the suggestions offered by the Central Party. Of a wise and full and righteous man were let down, and some were called by name. It was a simple statement of betraying disability and men paid a price yes to prevent the elderly from gaining extra power without being paid for it. This is what these groups take into Christmas to the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u34	Mr. President. It's a fictitious budget that we did today, a parish law based on a trust in the state's office, which immediately met the needs and expectations of the last election. It is most clever to hear advocates of government talk of not building social infrastructure when it is actually doing more than what was promised for the last election by those who went on the longest. Here we look forward to building health systems. This is a series of research and innovations by raising the roof of reimbursement. This is an improvement in the quality of the disability pensioner, and it's certainly been done, not only in these budgets, but also in the last. The number of children entitled to child reform is being increased by 2,200 and paid up. Indeed, a long - term road system is being built up. It is a form of treasure that is at the same time responsible and built on a solid foundation. I'm very proud that I'm going to get these budgets done here today. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u35	Mr. President. These funding are about to be publicized by the economic irresponsibility of this government and the special care it represents. There is certainly a considerable increase in expenses at the same time as the late bat rises in interest to fight inflation. Once again, the government yields less than wealth in the economy, puts up with inflation directly, opposes the Secret Bank in its struggle for more powerful money policies, lower inflation and lower interest levels in the country. It is undisputed and has repeatedly been pointed out in the financial process of leading this government's budget. Second, it is obvious that there are billions of fishing costs being dropped at the same time that older citizens and micro-energy pensioners cannot be brought to any commercial gain within the next year, no plans for the development of nurses can be carried out, and so on. [[The president calls.]] The cutting knife runs down in the welfare system. There the government reveals its special interest care. This law cannot be supported. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u36	A respectable president. The government's ideas on budgeting have been primarily characterised by proposals for huge expenditures. Thus, the United States has suggested that next year's primary spending is not enough to increase to 5% in real value but must be 8% so that we can reach our goals. An 8% increase is the contribution of the United States into this discussion, and the same is true of the proposals of most other governmental groups, all of which have been about the need to drop from the state fund large amounts of donations to achieve our common goals. In order to reach our goals, we need additional expenses. This is something that is irresponsible in the debate that has taken place, apart from the fact that it is totally incomprehensible communication in the seabed, a fundamental work in the Icelandic economy, resulting in an enormously valuable and high taxation to the state's funds, that people don't see the light when it's being brought in real time, making the system more reasonable and better for the whole future. [[The president calls.]] It's amazing that people don't see it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u37	Mr. President. This presentation is the highest. The financial and economic ministers were amazing. All proposals of the United States went on to increase the equation in society, both the suggestions on the spending side and also on the income side. We wanted to do better with the disability, with the elderly, with the patients, with the children, with the school people, and finance them by using the equal role of the tax system, which the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter does not. We wanted to take a look at and deal with property problems in the country. The government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter does not address this inequities that will be greater and greater. Rather, it promotes it by not using the tax system to the equation, by reducing taxes on a financial company, and by reducing the fishing costs to the target, which is certainly of no shortage. But that makes the poorest people in Iceland. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u38	A respectable president. Desperates are left behind, there's no rising to disability, there's been a down, they're getting smaller.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u39	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u40	They are being cut off because prices recent to an apartment store, an apartment building, and other things don't work. They don't come back for wanties, they don't get no raise. They get 3.6%, but they should get 10% if given correctly. [[Up front.]] The health system - dozens of people if not hundreds of them are on the waiting list and are only extended. There's nothing in there or getting it done. These are not financial provisions for those who need it, those who are elderly, desperate, and sick.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u41	V.E.G. President. On the motion of the Central Party to the 2nd. budgets were offered to improve tax recovery. In the Central Party proposals, there were no proposals to raise taxes, they were fully funded. But before, both last year and beyond, it has been observed at the highest level. Secretary of finance is not interested in further tax returns. He's shown and said it in the chair, so it's not surprising that he's coming back up here with that expression again. But what brought my special attention to this discussion today must bring to the attention of all the desperate, sick, and older citizens who heard it. The prime minister is proud of these financial provisions. It is proud that the poorest people in Iceland still have to wait for justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u42	Mr. President. I'd like to start by offering the highest. Secretary of finance welcomes the financial debate at the vote. He has certainly been missed in her early stages. We're seeing the light in the special interest guard around here. Here the reduction in hunting costs in fierce opposition to the less part is driven, despite repeatedly calling for the important profession to try to achieve some cross - political reconciliation. But this government has no interest in such reconciliation. It is taking the interest of older citizens and pensioners to cut off the interest of conversation. [[The point is, it's...]] The plans for a slight increase in financial resources to this group are reduced. It is undisputed and clearly in the government's own budget, if it knows them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u43	A respectable president. During the last two total elections, we have seen that the situation is not easy after the collapse. We're in a big debt. Much emphasis has been placed on paying up the financial debt, but we have social commitments and commitments that involve high costs. There is a source of comfort in the fact that there is a step toward digging into the holes that the crash left us in. But it has also been observed many times that the so - called macroevolution of transport is not a major offense, not compared to the average of previous years, not at all. We're just starting to move one step in that direction. There's a lot to talk about. This financial bill isn't. This financial bill is definitely a step forward, I'll tell you that. It's a tax growth, yes, but it's not necessarily the cost interest needed compared to the debt we are in because of social infrastructure, by road, and otherwise, which is absolutely necessary. It's a project we have to work together. [[The president calls.]] This financial bill isn't a financial bill team.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u44	A respectable president. We vote on parish laws for the whole community, educational education parish, health systems, welfare and equation, for the real structure of every infrastructure. The year 2019 will continue to be advanced for a better and more equal community. A respectable president. It's important, and it's a pleasure to participate in this kind of vote, and it's a pleasure to have a place in a government that represents such an appeal for an Icelandic community.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u45	A respectable president. We're about to vote on a very sensible budget. We're going down to the economy. In fact, it is amazing how much we have been able to increase our expenses in the past two years without losing sight of the point of returning the point, continuing to reach our goal of getting the balance to less than 30% without losing sight of it. At the same time, we distribute our expenses to build wood and meet the people who need it most. Will we do everything next year? No. But we are living in the best way to do the same in the next few years without having to borrow and repay. In other words, we put out a very sensible budget here, and I look forward to voting with them. I look forward to being able to expand the infrastructure in years because of the wisdom that we have maintained in financial matters in recent years.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u46	President. I miss these financial provisions to see that there is a real operation to tackle poverty. It lacks a complete view of what poverty costs us as a community because it costs us enormous sums of money as well as lives. Real measures are needed to eradicate poverty. In such a small community as Iceland, we could do it. I'm not merely adding small coins to a system that has been financing for so long that they need much more, but they have a vision. There is a lack of vision in expanding the overall problems we could do with our education, our health system, our welfare system, to eliminate poverty, and to bring us toward the future needs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u47	Mr. President. Sometimes it is said that if people say the same things enough, others begin to believe them and even themselves. Clearly, the word today is supposed to be a parish law. All members of Congress have left their green teeth on it. What does that involve? They're starting to believe it themselves. The fact is, though, that a real socialistic government would immediately have attacked the problem that has developed in society and shared the goods differently. And because it's the highest. Secretary of finance said that the Conspiracy had merely brought an 8% change and an increase, that in a government contract, we would have brought in a completely different budget than the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance. In fact, I expected left greens to be closer to us than I could see.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u48	Mr. President. In recent years the prices of property in this country have gone up substantially. In the middle of the housing problem, the government has decided to drop authority for the use of special savings to the expense and subsidies of apartment loans. The government's decision is unwise and is contrary to the proposal of a prime minister who was appointed in June 2017 and is greatly disappointed. The central category suggests a change in budgets for the bill that there will be an extension of the terms for the use of special property provisions for apartment purchases and the subsidies of apartment loans when the law is to expire in the middle of the next year. This is an important tool, especially for young people. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u49	Mr. President. We need to strengthen the office of the tax investigator so we can complete the Panama projection, but too many of the cases are unsolved. The public demand that these matters go out and that fines be paid. The office is in need of funds, so in the United States, we go to 100 million. K. a donation in 2019 so that the office can expand staff and complete the investigation of this important matter. Good and powerful surveillance pays off. There is far too much that does not flow into the combined consumption of our shared money.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u50	A respectable president. This proposal suggests that subsidies for publishing will be postponed and funds provided for other purposes, such as ensuring the level of sensibility of sensibility and disability pensioners. This is an example of changing priorities. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u51	Mr. President. It's about making money for the university. In the United States, we make 500 million. K. increase to the university. No one has claimed that there was no improvement, but it is wrong that we will reach OECD's targets in 2020. As a result, the experts we've talked to in OECD reported that considering the number of students then, in terms of prices, we would reach these targets. But then it's only been four years. There are other numbers now, and there is another number of students, so we can't build today on four years of age. So we contribute to this increase and hope to receive the support most people have.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u52	Mr. President. In recent years, health agencies in the country have been experiencing serious problems, which have lured all their activity into the bone. That's as far as we can get. These institutions have simply reduced their service greatly, experiencing professional hardships and pressures. Basic services are being threatened. It goes on according to the current bill. The government's prejudices to the budget, and to the Ministry, nothing's going to work. Government officials claim that clean cuts will be in operation and operations next year, in the goods itself. This is the declared restoration of the health system. This is all the big offense offered by the government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter. Therefore, the union does not enjoy, prefers action, but rather than scrap one, and strengthens health institutions at least 500 billion. K. in 2019 C.E. These are minimal numbers, and we have financed those increases.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u53	Increase hunting costs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u54	Mr. President. I feel that in itself there's no need to repeat a speech at any given moment. paritaprevir Brjánsson, who he had laid his hands on the problems of health institutions in the country. We at the Parliamentary Reunion voted with their proposal. As may have been anticipated, in view of the speech of the greater part of the council, this proposal was made. A further adjustment on the part of a council party is presented here in less than one third of what was previously proposed. However, this is a sum of money that is greatly remembered by certain health institutions. I hope, however, that this proposal will be given, in view of the previous vote, course gangs in this hall. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u55	A respectable president. It is disappointing that funding is missing for the management of regional hospitals. In a five - year financial program, it is noted that there should be an especially unprecedented increase in the population of Southnes and that contributions to the South Health Organization should be made accordingly. I'm afraid that hasn't happened. I strongly emphasize that the government and the minister of finance and health ministers look into the situation of the South American Institute of Health in the light of the five - year financial strategy and that the correctment will be made as promised.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u56	Mr. President. While hundreds of people are on the list, the government is trying to get together for health policy in the country. We feel that it is right to meet those who are trying to get medical help but are commonly sent to replacement surgery, hip surgery, and surgery. It is very costly for a wealth of money, except for the untold suffering of these individuals. While the government is making its decision, we believe that it is important that Iceland's health insurance will be authorized to negotiate with independent medical personnel to work on these lists. The people on the list can't wait much longer. That is why we need to show a color in this material and try to finish it, for in the end this amount of money, 200 million, will be returned to the state's savings.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u57	Mr. President. The government has promised to strengthen the operation of nursing homes and also to promote home nursing, daily training, and rehabilitation. None of this is on the bill. There's no new sight, no vision, no business with senior citizens. There's more abbey and concrete that doesn't even make money. The rurals, which include... Those who attend nursing homes claim that they pay with the ministry about 1 billion a year and will not suffer the undividedness of hope. Those who operate the nursing home claim that at least 30% per day is not needed for the job to succeed. At the top of the purchase, the economy requirement is expected to be 0.5%, though something has been scratched over. It's headed for nothing. Therefore, the United States wants to respond, suggesting that medical care be raised by 1,000 million. K. in 2019 C.E. [[A senator misspoke, intended to say 400 million. K.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u58	Mr. President. I can say every word in a speech explanation. A member of the council, though another team was involved. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] However, this suggests an increase in nursing care funds by 500 million. K. The government cut between the 1st and the 2nd. budgets about 1 billion, the programs for building up. At the same time, there are reports of an increase in waiting lists of about 100 years. There is a great need and a need to do better. More than that, this lack of nurses is causing enormous medical costs. The land hospital wrestles amongst them. we have unprecedented efflux problems due to lack of space. So I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u59	Mr. President. Always fun sharing in creating new customs and customs. I'm gonna do the same shit I've been doing before. This was not made up of so much of a council party for reassignment so that I recommend it and establish the hopes that this motion, which is a little lower, will be accepted. I'd kind of like to add the argument, as strongly as it was with my colleagues earlier, that there is certainly an increase in money in the health system, but our criticism has shown that more often than not all the wrong ends have begun without the necessary policies and insights. It's the right end, Mr. President. To make the best of money is to make money a part of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u60	Mr. President. The European Commission yesterday issued an announcement containing the response of the Ministry of Presidency to reduce the contribution to the disability of debate at the council. It is reported that the Ministry of Presidency does not know that the ideal microorganism has been improved by 9 billion dollars. On the contrary, the highest claim. Prime Minister Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter. The Ministry responds to Iceland's Environment Alliance to a surveilment of about 400 million. K. This year, and a 2.9 billion contribution to global change will be spent to improve the quality of disability. Whatever the case, it is clear that a prime minister's claim of 9 billion points is 9 billion. The contributions to improve the quality of the microbubbles do not measure any opinion. That's the announcement from the Corporate Community. In the United States, we're adding 1 billion more to disability, and we hope that this Christmas is now the gift of microsurgents this year.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u61	A respectable president. Economic costs of next year's inflation are expected to be 3.6% and improvement in the number of sensibility and disability donors will rise by equivalent percentage. Here it is suggested that there be an additional 1% to ensure that this of the most vulnerable community has a minimum cost increase, like other citizens of this country. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u62	Mr. President. I feel compelled to appear here and report that in my reply during the days of the council, contributions to the seminaries have increased by 9 billion dollars. In two terms from this government, if these financial laws are to be taken care of, as everything is about to be done. It was in answer to a question why. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson. I don't like it when you try to turn out the words that were completely clear here and are confirmed in the budgets of the previous year and the financial bill you have here. So I reiterate that these are the facts. I say no to this suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u63	A respectable president. This proposal agrees with what I explained my vote to this one shortly ago, unless it turns to pensioners. It accounts for a 3.6% increase in the reference height in the next year, the same percentage as expected in economic terms of inflation. It is quite clear when you see the economic grounds for these budgets that there is a risk that in terms of the current status of the kroner gang at least, as well as that inflation of this year, there is already a trend toward becoming considerably higher than expected in the same terms. Therefore, I consider this to be a minimum increase in these reference levels, to ensure that this vulnerable group of 1% purchase gains and prevents it from returning from other populations. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u64	Mr. President. The Continent Act of the 2nd Environment proposed a change. about 2 billion children's improvement, and it's a question of whether he's going to drop these too, whether he's going to respond to the labor movement's call for changes in the child - welfare system. If not, it is a serious matter. The child - reform system has been clearly weakened in the past few years, and thousands of children's families have fallen out of the system. A greater proportion now contributes in 2019 to the average score of no child benefits, and they begin to decline at the bottom quarter of the income. The rates of cuts have been far too cruel and are now becoming even more cruel to the government of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir. Perhaps this is in harmony with the focus of the government and the World Bank Fund on the poverty grants to the family of children.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u65	Mr. President. Despite the recommendations by the labor movement and the sector that their housing and their efforts are the key to a good agreement in future labour agreements, total financial resources provided by the government for housing support have been almost unchanged between the years. Governments simply have to do much better and improve housing support and ensure more and higher structure. It must build more and more suitable apartments and deal with the serious conditions in the market, especially without profit. Therefore, in the United States, we propose a billion - a billion - billion productions in order to meet the more cumulative needs as well as to meet the demands of the labour market and support contracts in the winter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u66	Mr. President. The cancer society is among the many members of a community that are outside the state - driven system and therefore enjoys financial gain from the highest level. Governments. Our group of reveries adds funds so that the cancer community can carry out its screening assignments. We give little reason to explain to the health authorities that this is not possible while a screening guide is still working, in view of the fact that the stately health care professional has been given such additional money in current financial laws. We encourage this proposal to have a course.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u67	Mr. President. I strongly agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín's son, Friðriksson, on this point but would also like to draw attention to the fact that the government has not received any suggestions. I would have thought that such a moderate proposal could be enjoyed by a government that talks about conversation and cooperation and more often than not the government situation at any given time against specific suggestions. In addition, it is informative to point out that this is the second time we are in Correctional with a suggestion to promote those who are independent workers or lawyers, such as the Cancer Society, and again the government, including the Independence Party, pays off against independent operating agencies.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u68	President Hithv. The following table may show the effect of the application. The church does not reach the cancer club, the parish will not reach it. But, of course, I'm saying yes to this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u69	A respectable president. This proposal is part of our efforts to improve our priorities in this financial bill. The government is planning to protect 162 million. K. in the increase of the management budget at the same time as financial support is missing in a number of other and more urgent matters. Therefore, it is suggested that financial support not be funded for the Ministry of Health, despite the government's plans or approved by the General for its replacement. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u70	Mr. President. I ask senators to consider what is taking place right now. The government suggests we give 1,500 million. K. Source to Iceland e-mail ohf. After hearing the manager of the fine company say that it was light and unlikely how the operation would be immediately next year. I have not seen any suggestions as to how the rescue work should take place on that ship that is about to slid. Nor will we see how this will harm the competitive business. Too many questions seem to persist there, and I feel that it is highly irresponsible for us to plan to resolve this matter without considering control or control or anything that has happened inside the board. I want a little thought over the Senate.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u71	A respectable president. Between 1 and 2nd. Various words fell down to conditions that would be needed because of this loan. It's not really a loan, it's a state scholarship because this loan will never be paid. Although this loan may be paid precisely, it is still just a minus into the future that will replace it. The conditions established in the opinion of the greater part are, in fact, just standard conditions for improving economy, etc. But there is no time limit, there is no follow-up in any consistent manner. [["Advisive party of the greater part. "]] - That's exactly what it says. Everything that comes out there...
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u72	Not a conversation at the council Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u73	is something that all companies of course have to go through when they are in this position. There are no additional criteria for taking steps at which time and when to stop. Nothing like that. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u74	V.E.G. President. This government does not have 1,100 million dollars to keep its commitments to microorganism. She does not have money for seniors to win without their pay for pensions, but she has money to pour 1,500 million into bankrupt ohf. without any requirement for the assessment or any other information to explain the position of this company. Every cent needs to be rolled by twice, said by the top. The secretary of finance for the Morning Press today, but this is not the thought of wondering 1,500 million, not even twice, they are literally flushed down because we will never see that money again. It's not just irresponsible and unwise to do it - I don't really know what a word to say about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u75	V.E.G. President. It might have been possible to support this proposal if the government had some view of how she was going to solve the company's problem. She hasn't. It is not a government fund to lend money to companies in competitive business, but surely the State can contribute to its own money if such a company is in serious financial problems. But then there must be some evaluation of how this could possibly affect the competitive environment in which this company operates. In this case, there is no such thing. There would also need to be some plan to get the company out of its business problem. In this case, there is no such thing. Perhaps some vision of the government would need to be given during the future development of this company's environment so that it will not continue in its major problem. That's not in the game either. Therefore, this suggestion cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u76	V.E.G. President. I cannot help but come up here in the light of the discussion of this valuable business that is holding up mail service in the whole country. Are people really going to let them sail their seawater? It's amazing to listen to this. Where's your responsibility? This is a public service.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u77	Where's your responsibility?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u78	It's amazing. Then I'm going to read here the opinion of the greater part: It is necessary to inform both the budgetary and the European Parliament's Environment and Transport Committee on the progress of financial restructuring and the implementation of a future treatment strategy before new loans and contributions are made as follows: What does that mean? We're going through the business. The business is being cut up. Protecting the value of this company. [[Prefect...]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u79	Is the loan done?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u80	Mr. President. We have now completed the treatment of a budget bill for 2019 that is well balanced with raising expenses for various lawsuits, with the classes to which we need to care for and improve. I'm not going to stand in this chair to celebrate the 5% expansion. It is not in my nature to do so, but it is necessary because we have agreed on this course. This is where the government has come up and tried to drill this hole. She is completely inconsistent in her discussion of budget and budget for the next year. It is a good idea for the nation to see the solidarity the government of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir here approves of this financial bill. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u81	V.E.G. President. The best state funds from the beginning will not benefit the elderly, it will not profit from microorganism, it will be of no use to the poorest people in Iceland. It is worst when we are starting Christmas preparations that those in line for food gifts, those who wait for the delay, those who don't make ends meet, those who have problems making money can think that the prime minister is proud of this bill. She's proud of these laws. It's fine for us to take it with us to the top of Christmas. Prime Minister is proud. [[Take it up to the bottom of a great budget.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u82	A respectable president. The government has come here to tell us how disintegrated the opposition to government is. But it can be noted that the government too is. To reduce income and extra expenses is not completely compatible, or they don't fit very well in the long term. It's not sustainable. I also wanted to draw attention to the fact that there were no suggestions for the lesser part approved by a member of the management board, but one point was proposed to Pirata for the added legal rights to the General Assembly agent. So the more part made a suggestion, making it its own, and approved it. Four million to the U.S. Marshal of the Council, whom the Piratars proposed: No. 4 million to the Trustee of the Council: Yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u83	A respectable president. These laws harmonize with what was expected when this government began and in accordance with its composition. It's money without a promise. It is a significant increase in expenses, a greater increase in expenses than we have ever seen when the career of this entire government is being considered. But what does it run into? It's running into the same system. It is only in one place where you intend to hold hands and wait for additional expenses to be updated on the system, and that is, in case of microplicity. In every other part of the world, large amounts of donations are being increased to the same system so that the money that the public puts in common funds is not getting any more. These are financial laws without promises, and these are financial laws that show us that this government is only about what men say, not about what they do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u84	V.E.G. President. With the approval of these laws, the government shows a number of things. These budgets are irresponsible in the denounced interest rates at the same time as the Federal Council struggles with increasing social inflation and growing interest levels. The government intends to improve the fire there and contribute to an even higher interest level, an even higher inflation. It's a Christmas gift from the government to the people of the country. Despite all this financial joy, however, the government did not trust to give older citizens and microplies some increase in money gain in the next year. No, their election shall stand in their place. At the same time, the rate of hunting here is reduced by billions. This is the priorities of this government. This is the special care of the government. More interesting, though, is that despite all declarations of greater interpolitic cooperation in this hall, all the changes proposed in the memory of the part are incorporated. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u85	Mr. President. We've voted in responsibly with various proposals that have come from the government. We've also been sitting by instead of ever paying votes and sometimes we've voted against it. We are cooperative and have shown this by our vote here, but obviously the government is not. That's too bad. So I would like to ask, "Where is this will to promote the Council? " When over a year has passed since the government's reign, where is the government's covenant now? Does that mean that the cohesive will is only one way? I present this cooperation and cooperation with the government, and I further declare myself ready to cooperate in big, important matters. We still have work to do, especially now in the field of fishing government, where yesterday's Supreme Court fell as a weakness in my opinion of the nation's status when it comes to catching the resource. This all translates into budgets, for we see the clear priorities of the government in financial terms. The priorities are that we delay expenses for disability and older citizens while the fishing costs are greatly reduced. [[The president calls.]] That is the priorities of the Government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u86	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill for changing the government's law on the bank administration which is solely responsible for the Agency's working time. In 2009 a law on the government's Bankament was set up to take part of the state's financial capital, which then fell into the hands of the State after the collapse of the financial system. The Act requires the Agency and its activities. The Act on the Bank Office also calls to the end of the Agency's activities. It states that the Agency has completed its work no later than five years after its implementation according to Article 9. The law, or as it says, by permission of the President: Then she will be laid down. Prior to a five - year deadline, a legal assessment of the importance of the Agency's activities was initiated within the financial and economic authorities. This is especially true when considering the role of the Agency regarding the proposed sale of the holdings of the State. It is important that interpretation of the provision or legal basis of the Agency be made unquestionably when it comes to managing the interests of the State in such organizations in public areas. As men no doubt remember during the council, it was considered at the time to place the Agency in a new unity in a long - term distance from the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, but that the Agency such as it would be put down and this work unit would actually be assigned the role that the Agency had before. The matter was not established during the council, and they agreed that it was more correct for the Agency to continue unchanged. On the other hand, legalistically it is impossible not to go together the law text and reality because the reality is that it was far from being able to complete the Agency's work in five years, although the goal was in its start. This bill fails to do so. This suggests that there will be a change in the provision of the time of the Bankisar's work in such a way that it will be made simply when the task is completed, not within some particular time period. This has prompted a discussion on the legal basis of the Agency since the five years had passed. It is to say that we have believed that this is primarily the provision of plans rather than the automatic delinquency of the Agency. The Agency itself had a legal opinion on the subject at the time that it was needed to bring about a legal adjustment if the Agency should retire. I'm not going to have any more of those words on this subject. It is simply taking care of the law that deals with the Agency's working time and that the Agency will be put down once its projects are completed. A respectable president. According to this, I suggest that the bill be referred to the Economic and Business Committee and to the 2nd. to end this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u87	A respectable president. It's a pleasure to be loved. Economic and economic ministers board up sleeves and set them on the right ground as a member of the state's Bank Office. The point is that a minister would say that he agreed, and that the lyrics might not be compatible with reality, and I don't know what or what, but the fact is, since the time came as the 9th grade. It suggested that the Bank Office be laid down no later than five years after its establishment, according to the law of No. 88/2009, has created a legal void. There was, in fact, no legal basis for the Agency to be employed during this period, so the question remains on what legal basis are the actions that have been made in the name of the Bankisans at this time. It's a pleasure to drop on the 9th floor. away, that's the law's purpose, and it's also worth the attention of the fact that it's mostly part of the state they're holding on to, there's our banks, 98.2% in the Lands Bank and all Iceland banks, and then something in savings. It is worth the effort to see that there are six individuals here, both the government and the three members of the Bank County staff, to hold these parts of our property and how long it will be a question and what cost, it will be discovered.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u88	A respectable president. I simply believe that it is above all doubt that the Agency's activities have been in all respects legitimate. There are laws. Its role is clearly defined, but it is unfortunate that this aim principle, about subspecies within five years, conflicts with the reality that we see, i.e. that it turned out to be completely unrealistic to put banks in prices within five years. However, it is good to recall that when this law was passed, many people in later times have suddenly got more interested in buying even new banks and continuing to collect financial assets, which I consider unscrupulous. But now the book of the White Book that has been called on to be presented for financial instruction. Hv. A senator comes here only at the expense of holding and holding this institution. I'd like to say that I feel that the cost was moderate, especially when we look at how much possessions are underneath. And it has been observed many times that the Icelandic government, looking to a ratio of land production, is the largest owner in Europe's financial contributions. And holding out this small organization does not in itself cost much to hold on to these threads. However, it can be asked about the projects, both their scope from time to time and whether the Agency has simply to control, with these few employees, all the resources that may be needed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u89	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The secretary of the budget for this conversation. It is most unfortunate that this legal vacuum should take place around the activities of the Bank Office. Yes, that's true, but we're so lucky that we have our own. We have our public accountant, perhaps the Directorate-General, who in this case could be consulted to see if there is any doubt in the question that this is a legitimate subject. During this period, e.g. It was famous. Remuneration was sold with the rapture they had there. The question about financial companies may now be much more excited about them because they are making such enormous profits that it has become a golden goose, but it is also a question of whether we should not have one community bank for our people, for our people, to allow them to borrow and perhaps make small competition with the other experts in the market. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u90	A respectable president. Yes, I eagerly look forward to the discussion about the future of the financial system and the contribution of the State to the future. Within a few days, we have a more detailed report on the subject, and hopefully it will be the basis for the discussion that was being conducted. The approach, such as the above, may have been too small in Icelandic politics and here in the relations of the European Commission and Congress, but it is at other regional conventions a widely known phenomenon. But I am, and it won't surprise many people, not much of a fan of the community bank concept. I think we're supposed to go another way in this context, but of course, it's about what people mean with their bank. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u91	A respectable president. I'm not the least concerned about the long-term bank business... but maybe more concerned about the long-term government's long-term holding... of the as big a part of the banking system as it really is here. A financial competition is small, and it does not stimulate her to hold two of the three largest business banks in the country. That's why I want to ask the highest question. Secretary of the budget: Is it a requirement for the release of the government's ownership during this ideal time? Is it okay in this government to be released and how much you can expect, how much you expect the government to plan to sell during this terms?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u92	A respectable president. I'm not surprised that people want to be directly involved in the future of the financial system, which is not the subject of the bill under which it is directly related. We have been united in saying that it would be an essential basis for a discussion on the sale of the government's share in financial affairs to have brought together the white book that we now expect. I believe we should evaluate market conditions but take the first opportunity to clear the State's ownership of the second bank. I can see that the state will remain leading investors in the other bank. That when this will be done, is, as I say, anything that will be up to a degree to depend on the external circumstances. We are to do so when external circumstances are practical, but they may also include things that we need to change into the laws or frame of the financial system, which must be run out before it does. [[The president calls.]] Among other things, there is the White Book.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u93	Mr. President. Of course, sales of finance companies have something to do with this bill, because if there is no plans to sell the banks, there is in itself no reason to have any obligation to put the bank office on the ground, if it is intended to keep in mind the government's financial capital for the future. I understand a word of the highest degree. Secretary of finance to hold, at least not at this point, for an agreement within the government for selling the financial assets of the state, which I'm sorry about. It's actually been a time to sell things in banks, probably for about six consecutive years at least There's a possible time to pass now, I won't say, in fact, I think it is, in view of the fact that it's probably gonna take years to get rid of the government's ownership of the banks, no reason to stay on it any longer and start at it in some step, though.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u94	A respectable president. Yeah, I'm thinking that we should grab our first chance, as I put it earlier, but we have to be sensible and evaluate market conditions, see the overall interest, when it's our best interests to get rid of our property. I thought it was a very important step for the government to get out of Arion's bank and that it was managed to register that bank, not just in Iceland, but by two-sided registrations. There we received the largest foreign investment in the Icelandic banking system we have ever seen, which raises questions as to whether there will be greater interest in both within the country and outside the land, in the Icelandic financial system. This, of course, is among the things we need to examine. In this context, you must remember how large these banks are today in our economy. [[The president calls.]] Their value is in the range of some 160◯200 billion in each bank.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u95	A respectable president. Over the years, I have agreed with the legal interpretation of the highest degree. Secretary of finance with us before, i.e. that the work of the Bank hasn't changed since I think it might be possible, except maybe at this council hall and maybe at the coffee table here and there in the community. But this is shown in a report which I think to be righteous, according to the law of Article 9. Rather than being something to improve the work of the bank county, there is a political goal. I wondered if there's any difference after these preliminary regulations came in, that the Agency should shut down once its work is completed, because there is a need to legally submit the Agency anyway. I wondered: " Is this not also a political goal line comparable to what is already in 9. par.?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u96	A respectable president. Yes, I believe that as a matter of fact, this may be like a political goal. But the problem with the directive as it is in the current law is that there is a set time limit and there was, what should we say, a level of impossibles found in the establishment of an institution that was to be completed within five years, and then the Agency never got the project to complete it. There was no agreement to engage in the sale of banks or to release property, and the Agency could not complete the project within time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u97	A respectable president. That's what I'm saying with the advance that we're in 1st. I'm on it. I like to do this, even if it's just to prevent misunderstandings among those who love to read laws and find something to criticize. Surely this has been a topic of discussion. I feel uncomfortable with it all by myself. It wastes time, and I think the waste of time is boring in general. But that's the second question I have, which is whether there is any danger that the project might be reduced to something because the criteria have been changed like this. I ask a few questions in view of the fact that this five - year period is already in the law that has not actually been valid, not legal in any way. I wondered: " Does a minister assume that somewhere there is an incentive for an assignment not to run out at some point because it is seen that once the time has been reached, the project should start doing something that people might want to postpone or escape? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u98	A respectable president. It is a good point that there is no special motivation for the Agency in the law to get ahead of meeting the project, since the Agency is entirely subject to the Commission's legislation on this. It is a set arrangement that we have assumed to be essential to the sale of the Kingdom's property. But for so many reasons, I would be delighted to have more advocates of freeing the possession of the State. I believe, first of all, that getting a new holding can unleash power in the financial system. Second of all, I don't think it's a reasonable arrangement for the government's financial resources to bind it much in the financial system. I believe that it can be dangerous, and I believe that money is better spent on payment of debt and investments in infrastructure. We could then continue to count the benefits of reducing the holding of property, but the main point is that the government agrees that it should be chosen. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u99	Mr. President. This is an interesting subject, especially in view of the previous claims of the lndependence and the Independence Party on this enterprise, this institution. It is stated that when a job is completed, it should be put down. I think it is quite simply a continuation of the life span of this institution for an indefinite time and actually just a continuation of the same situation. It was like 2010. paritaprevir The Gulsome Þórðarson gave a bill from the platform, saying that this institution was absolutely unnecessary and that it would be a national agreement. Now eight years later, the Independence Party adds 60 billion to the life span of this institution. K. On the budget bill. It would be interesting to know if the ultimate. A minister can answer what causes this conversion in independence.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u100	A respectable president. We felt that way at the time, and I recommended for a bill that there was no need to have an institution around this project. However, we planned to do the same work assignment in a unit, and we thought that it would help us to develop a certain flexibility to carry out the tasks, depending on the importance of them at any given time. This has now been tested at the council's will, and it has to be said, as it is, that the scope of the banking business is not vast. What I have most likely to be the problem is that the Agency is present when, as we can see, it is quiet in selling the property parts of the state, but it has responded very well once it has had to be sought. Hence, it is clear that these assignments will continue to be carried out. We felt that there could be a greater flexibility in the scope of the work, that by so doing money could have been saved.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u101	Mr. President. Yeah, that's where we hit the highest. A minister just had a nail when he spoke of saving money. I think it's possible to do that by putting this institution down as he suggested eight years ago and considered it completely unnecessary. So now there's a strange change of mind, and you wonder if it's some sort of controversy within the government, whether the Independence Party is here living under the direction of the green left in this regard, to improve in the state's affairs, as the Independence Party is so interested in being. But what I'd also like to point out here is that in such cases when financial companies, etc., they may simply be able to consult companies, even foreign advisers, and that will probably be done, I suppose, so I don't see that there's a purpose to continue this organization. The 60 million could be applied to something else. But the highest. Minister says it's good to have her there, there's not much to do. I don't think that's an argument in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u102	A respectable president. This year it has been demonstrated that the Agency has made a big difference, i.e. the ability to identify and provide counselling, to support the management of financial companies, but also to give counsel to the government on the sale of Arazon banks and on the implementation of regulations in contracts with the old banks, etc. and the Agency's work has been tested today in connection with the preparation of the White Book. We are also sailing into a time when it is more realistic to talk about government sales. Other than that, I think I agree. A senator says that we should have equipment on tasks that are suitable for the project. In view of this, I set aside time to place this work, not in a special institution, but in a work unit, which was rejected here at the council, and now we put this bill to work in order to adjust a particular technical point. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u103	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct any change in various laws as a result of the fallout of the law of manure. The bill aims to change the arrangement of the pay decision of those under the jurisdiction of the Cathedral. The government, in January 2000, decided to agree with an overall workforce. to appoint a group on matters of honor. The team was appointed representatives of the state and representatives from the labour market. The group was to compare the terms of remuneration with elected representatives, judges and officials in neighboring countries and to offer proposals to change the budget of a collective body of dressers, another arrangement would be more likely to make a better decision in the future on their future remuneration due to their status. At the same time, the group was to consider the decision of the Board of Elders and evaluate them in the light of the salary and remuneration of the classes that enjoy the terms of freedom of the contract and the pay policy that were agreed on by the majority of the employees. The report of the work group shows that the decision to pay for government officials and officials will always be a difficult and controversial subject. These professions have the highest authority in society and therefore do not agree to pay. There are also many political issues associated with government officials. In general, it is recognized that a decision made by judges and several other professions is unique because there is a need for professional recognition and independence from other aspects of the State. These views have also been viewed in various countries as valid for those who are prosecuting the district and representatives of various official organisations. The report of the work group shows that there are different nationalities with respect to the handling of the conditions in which the salary scale is comparable to that of the two groups. In this country, for some time the decision has been in the hands of an independent judge, a time for the Kuristan and the jurist Committee, and later for the Council of the Cathedral. The decisions made by these judges have been an issue in the community. In this context, in December 2005, the World Council legalized the issue of Kjara's decision and was laid down with the Board of Elders. In 2006, if you can put it that way, the legislatator has taken over the work of the Council when the need was needed. First, by reducing the pay by the failure of the bank, which was thought to set a pattern for the entire labour market, much rather than as an independent intervention into the council decision, and then it was decided to freeze the pay for the underlaws. The report of the work group, beginning in 2011 until the end of 2015, decided to mainly meet the labour agreement for increase and general pay development. However, at the end of 2015, a decision was made to change the remuneration of the judge, resulting in significant increases. The same was true in 2016 when elected representatives and officials were raised in any way to the decisions made the previous year about judges. These decisions were controversial, and following them a debate arose over the arrangement of the decision, which led to the order of the staff on the affairs of the Council of Elders. A respectable president. The work group's proposals for the arrangements of the pay decision are made in an independent report, but before I go to their subject, I'd like to state that the General Assembly has in the meantime, i.e. from making decision - making decisions about the changing arrangements of these matters. In this way, we have already seen a significant decrease in the number of those in charge and other regulations instituted in the meantime than in the end and followed by the proposals of this service group being decided to take a different course, and the advice of a dresser was decided on the subject. The proposals of the work group from early this year were as follows: It will be turned away from the decision of a court of decision, or of a comparable judge, of the salary of the state's representatives, of the highest officials, ministers, and of the people under the council. The Senate's pay will be determined by the Synod's Synod's contract with a fixed capital capital by the time limit. The Minister's pay will be determined in the same way by the Council of the Management Board of Iceland. The same value for job-related cost payments, which will also be simplified and their transparency increased. The U.S. president's pay will be determined in a comparable way by the law on the salary of the President of Iceland. The terms of a judge will also be determined by a solid sum of money. The pay that is thus fixed by law will be redetermined on May 1 each year, and values will be maintained for one year from that date. In reimbursement, the work force seems reasonable to aim for a relative change in the average change in the average average of regular pay of citizens, as shown by Iceland's Habitat Room for the next calendar year. The economist published information with a short report on the change of the average regular pay of a government worker to date from April 1 to April. Because of international commitments to the independence of bank and financial monitoring and their role in ensuring financial stability and economic stability, it is reasonable to make a decision on the pay of the highest executives. For others who are now under the recommendation of the Council, the main policy of the Convention on Buy and Preservation or the arrangement set in Article 39. a Code on the rights and duties of the government. This includes the bishops of Iceland and the personnel of the National Church, but the commitments of the state to the State to the State Church need to be taken into consideration in this regard. These are key elements of the staff. The main reasons for the change of arrangement were that first changes in the pay of the state's highest office can be felt that this is not to be the case. The provision for re-evaluation of pay after the next year's pay development is to prevent conflict between their salary development and that of others. So it's kind of a dessert. The development of the remuneration will be more balanced with this system as assessed by the task force. This will not result in a reduction in the length and increase in large jumps. The pay of the highest government officials will be more transparent and predictable. In the present system, the pay of officials and judges is not available to the common people, including those that are not understood by the common people. because a large proportion of pay is paid in the form of units and salary, and other elected senators and ministers have been determined by two sources. The scale and timelines of the review of pay will be clear for all. Those who accept the pay can understand how a remuneration will be conducted, and a government fund can organise pay expenses. In other words, this point was a problem with the legislature system. Unexplained pay decisions are avoided. This means that at times a debate has been made in the ambiguousness of the decision-making board. The work involved is stable in the sense that those who serve them and go to work are more or less the same. Progress is not being made within the same set or changes requiring special assessment of employees or jobs themselves after a single period of adequate pay is decided. But this may not be absolute. If you're using e.g. The reference work has changed significantly over the years, and it may be that the future time period is likely to come if the senator's work in charge of the remuneration is being guided by this bill as a law, so that there is a reason to reimburse the reimburse the remuneration. Compatibility is one of the priorities, consistent with pay decisions. By making pay decisions on additional professions, see paragraph 39. a in the laws on the rights and duties of the State Services and on the hands of one person, it may be reasonable to assume that a normal agreement and agreement will be made in job assessments and ideals. This bill suggests that there are several legislation changes due to the elimination of the Council of Mention, largely on the basis of the proposals presented in the group's staff report on the Council of Mention. Most of it is based on proposals made by the Outfit. The bill suggests that jobs that can be carried out under a pay program set in Article 39. a staff law does so. In view of the nature of several professions, however, it is not proper for a minister or associate minister to have access to the decision of pay and employment as a result of the views of the independence of the work to the Commission. There are examples of such jobs. It is suggested that the pay of these parties be attached to a certain currency level. At the same time, the crowning capital will be recalculated each year, based on the relative change in the average of regular pay made by the government as reflected in Iceland's Habitat for the second-class calendar year. This is as suggested by the Committee. In the implementation of this law, it is assumed that when the Habitat has published the figures for June 1 each year, it will be involved in the State's Commission or the remuneration, where it would be appropriate to reimburse a level of crown money paid for July. At the same time, financial and economic minister can decide to increase the pay proportionally on January 1 per year in line with the estimated change in the average of the staff of the state's regular wages published in June. In other words, the usual course for this will be that in July the members of the law will gain an increase in their pay according to this standard of the average annual pay of the employees of the state from year to year. However, such an increase is expected to occur at the beginning of a year if specific evidence recommends it. We could then support ourselves in this regard, for example. that public workers had been negotiated from the middle of the year, and it is based on what collective agreements stored in those materials for the coming years. Then there may be valid reasons why the decision to implement a planned increase might be made immediately on January 1, so that you do not have to wait for the rise until July 1. Similarly, you may imagine that in this regard, people are secure on the side of the fence, raising no more than that the Habitats may conclude that the regular pay has increased less than the expected amount. This arrangement suggests that the pay may increase twice a year so that the rates of these parties will be more equal and closer to the general development of extremes in time than if the increase occurred only once a year. It is also suggested that several parties agree with the terms of collective agreements and the trade union to which they operate. According to Article 1. The Council of Cathedral was the Council's task to determine the salary and the remuneration of the civil office, judges, prosecutors, Ministers, Ministers, ambassadors and office managers who hear the Minister who handles the government's personnel business and represent a minister in the preparation of agreements with primers, bank managers, and bank managers' assistants office, and government managers. Also determined the pay and the remuneration of the head tax committee, the Commission of Environment and Resources Committee, the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Health Committee, who are in the full - time service. V.E.G. President. The bill suggests: 1st That the U.S. president's pay, members, ministers, bank managers and assistant bank managers will be determined in the law by a fixed capital level, and then reassigned each July, according to the relative change in the average mass of the staff of the state. 2. That the pay of the judge, the Ministry, the state of states and the prosecutors will be determined by the law by a monthly fixed currency level and by a fixed deposit level for overtime work and the pressures of the work. Then, in July each year, they are reordered based on the relative change in the average regular pay of the workers of the state. The way of making a fixed deposit level for overtime work and the stress of the job is to take into account the pension debt of the B-in the Penitentiary of the State Department of Pension. If the pay was fixed at one fixed capital level, it would be a problem to estimate the changes in legal rights in the fund, resulting in the primary application in relation to the day's pay. So if you roll it all together in one number, it can lead to a considerable contribution to the state budget for commitments in the B League without any special reason in itself for bringing up large sums of rights to these changes. For this reason, the bill is built so that humans distinguish it, and it follows the same criteria that are valid in the advice of a dresser. 3. That the salary and the remuneration of the President and the full-time members of some committees will be determined on the basis of the pay program set in Article 39. a Code on the rights and duties of the government. 4. At the salary and employment of two office managers who hear under the Ministry of Economics and Economic Affairs and give an answer to a secretary on the basis of a contract made by a secretary of finance, the agreement agreed by the other office managers of the Board of Directors. 5. In the end, an ambassador's salary and remuneration will be subject to collective agreements and to the trade union which will be on their behalf. 6th To decide for the bishops of Iceland, the bishops of consecration, the most testicipants, and the church's clergy, treat treat treaties within the nation's churches if the arrangement exists between state and State. Also, I would like to mention that in some cases the lawgiver has determined in some cases a second session on the pay of certain officials, which is the nature of the job because of a special position toward the European Commission. The rationale for this order is that it is not desirable to perform a national remuneration programme. Thus, the terms of these officials have been discussed by special committees. These officials are now the district attorney, who has the same legal body as the Supreme Court, a state accountant, and a member of the General Assembly. The Council's Committee for Presidency determines their salary. No changes are anticipated for those officials. Finally, I'd like to mention that the level of crowns mentioned in the bill will take into account the last decision made by a senator on the job. According to a report on the Councils' issues, if the salary of those in charge remains unchanged from the last decision of the Council to the end of 2018, the pay development of the pitty council group will be on average at the limit set up by the labour market body and has been evaluated in the range of 43◯48%. When considering this at the beginning of this year, a group of men said: "The decision of the Cathedral to remain unchanged in the year 2018, traveling on the same line as expected in the 2013 convention of the Council of Elders, has reached 433/48%. However, there are differences in salary development within the pack. In view of this, the bill suggests that the eligible group will be considered on July 1, 2019, next. In other words, we are going to wait for further increases in the number of growths covered by the bill to the middle of the next year. This will further increase the likelihood that there will be a way to settle this group's pay development. I call back to the fact that that that group was directly involved in the workforce, and it was only a representative of ASI who made an advance of the report. The staff said that if you were to wait until the end of 2018, you would have a similar line in terms of pay development as well as in other groups, but despite all this, you are put on for further freezing until July 1 next year. This is in view of the small variability among the piti-employment development of the collective group, and it is very important that decisions for further increases in the quality of the highest law of the management system do not result in further tension in sensitive labour contracts in both public and public labour markets. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u104	A respectable president. I'm going to thank you very much. The financial and economic secretary for a careful and successful review of this bill now available for the 1st. and deals with the advice of discretion now to the fathers and how we administer the payment of some groups, high officials, judges, and reelectors, and other groups. I want to pray to the highest. Ministers to share only meditation with me about one class, which is no longer part of this group, who once belonged to a culinary council, or heard under the advice of the salute, the priesthood. I don't know if it's tasteful to say that they may be a little out of the park in this sleazy environment now, but this class is under law, according to 60.g. track No. 78/1997, on status, government, and conduct of the National Church, in order to determine the pay of the individual. Thus, the despondency of a dresser implies that something else must be replaced. What's the big deal? A minister in this regard, and how do some members of the clergy function?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u105	A respectable president. It is the State's wish that they could agree with the church for her to make decisions on priestly matters. I'm going to let myself be quite hoping that a deal can manage that. All I can feel is that the church is interested and is willing to accept this, as well as other contracts associated with it and all conditions for the church to accept the project. While it has not really been true that the same thing for priests and others falling under the bill, then, according to the criteria we have been here, will be raised once or twice a year according to the circumstances, in the middle of the year, in July of July, and possibly in January. Thus, the bill presents no more than an opening to a change in the subject, but it does not involve any change in the rights of priests or of others at church that have heard under the advice of men.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u106	Thank you very much. Minister for clear answers, clear answers. It is this matter of interpretation whether the Church itself embraces it, whether it can be defined as this discriminatory, independent party that determines the salary. Does Minister know it's so? Has the highest. Is there any news of how negotiations between the state and the national church are taking place? I don't want to stretch my tail any more than maybe to address a question right at the end of the definition of the clergy's position in general: are they public employees?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u107	A respectable president. I'm not going to get out of my way to give a decisive answer to a priest's position without considering it, but I've agreed that they were not public employees in the traditional sense, but they may well have rights by law on public employees to some extent. It's just a thing I can't talk about here without ever having a chance to take a closer look at it. But do they enjoy the rightness that their terms will be dealt with by third party, no evil palaces? Yes, I believe with this arrangement a very neutral standard has arrived. We are based on a pay decision that the Board of Elders has decided or made a decision for and for the future there is a objective criterion that I believe will meet this requirement. It would be somewhat extreme to make a clear separation as to the need for a special committee or to maintain some kind of advice to take this role specifically. That's why I think this is the end of the show. Then there is a question of whether next to the church on this subject. I just have to make it enough to say that I have sensed the will to finish the case, and I think it's desirable for the church. It involves further economic separation, which would increase church independence. On the basis of the final report, they have an excellent approach, and I became hopeful that the discussion led to a good conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u108	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalise the validation of the 2017 state bill in accordance with the official financial legislation. The bill is set forward in accordance with official financial legislation that went into effect at the beginning of 2016. In the provisional regulations of the law, their influence on the return of state accounts was delayed until 2017. Therefore, the ECU 2017 account is the first account made up under the new law and in line with an international government accounting standard, which has lived by the name IPSAS, i.e. this global accounting standard, with the deviations of a three-year induction program. This account contains a core budget at the beginning of 2017, where significant changes in turnover and content from the 2016 State account are made. The final budget of 2017 is also presented to the General Assembly for the Institutes and Subject in Part A of the State Fund for financing. In accordance with official financial legislation, a governmental bill should be published within six months of the end of the year, but due to the scope of the implementation of a law of public finance and a change of accounts was not published until the beginning of October and is now being passed on by the World Council for confirmation. The balance of the budget is now being established on January 1, 2017, on the basis of changing accounting regulations. From the financial account of 31 December 2016, the main change is the increase in possessions by 1,204 billion dollars and a total of 2,345 billion. The increase in property is because permanent financial gains are now owned and overwritten over the lifetime of property instead of being reimbursed, as was done by older accounts. Thus, in terms ofprogramming accounts of 816 billion dollars, permanent funds are available. In addition, changes in the estimates of property are being made to members, so the share of the State Fund in a daughter's own money is now shown according to a partner's share strategy. Thus, the value of a trust fund is increased by some 372 billion dollars. For the first time, the financial debt has been shown to be an obligatory commitment to employees. In terms of interest rates, these include the short - term debt of 17 billion to employees. It's the holiday commitment. Changes in property accounting therapy and debt result in a 1,168 billion increase in money and a negative 694 billion in maintaining a positive response to 474 billion. At the start of 2017, a government account was positive about 39 billion dollars. Institution was a total of 783 billion dollars, of which income was of a value tax of about 229 billion dollars. and taxing on individual income and profits by 169 billion dollars. The pay of the state fund for fund workers was about 711 billion, of which 292 billion were ransacks, salary, and salary-related fees of 193 billion dollars. ... andimportant Penitentiary 43 billion. Another cost was 151 billion; other taxpayers, such as funding, 14 billion, and 18 billion. The financial expenditures above the budget were 74 billion, an increase of 93 billion, and a interest rate of 19 billion. A share in the survival of partners and fellow workers was positive about 41 billion. The total financial balance of 31 December 2017 totaled 2,157 billion and dropped their possessions from a core economic balance of 1 January 2017 due to a reduction in long-term demand and manual funds. The total debt of 1,661 billion dropped by 210 billion dollars. Thus, your long-term debt dropped by 236 billion dollars. which puts the reduction in a specific context. The money was positive about 496 billion and increased by 22 billion in 2017 compared with the founding economy. The payoff was 187 billion by the end of the year and dropped by 105 billion each year. It should be noted that in accordance with the Public Remuneration Criteria for Public Affairs, IPSAS, as I have mentioned before, the total financial recovery is published and the budget is published according to the economic reporting standard we have called GFS. Both methods are designed to ensure compliance and international control capacity. Thus, the contribution of the state funds according to government accounts is not comparable to financial and financial objectives. According to the Economics Department, GFS was a total recovery, i.e. On the basis of the economic status, by 2017, positive by 31 billion, and thus by less than 6 billion. Better than budgets anticipated, stressing the state's position. By the laws on public finances, the work will change to the decision of the state and project at the end of the year. Legally, the results of a state account were confirmed by the final financial law and by the amount of funds transferred from year to year, each of which fell. Basically, a comparable procedure is being applied to the decision of the end of the year and was made in preparing a bill for a final budget in the past. According to Article 30 above. a law on government finance is proposed to change the budget within a set case at the end of the year, depending on whether the relevant case group had been covered beyond the cost of the year or what was left over. The overall impact of change in financial status, which includes both abduction of excess tax and leftover permissions, is a total of 48 billion. Diversity is expected at 68 billion dollars. excess expenditures by the end of 2017. Of these, the excess expenditures of the pension debt are 40 billion, depreciating taxes by 9 percent, which are technical and do not affect the contribution of the State Fund, relative to the basic production in Article 1. ... abundant. Diversation at 20 billion remaining sources is expected. There's a subsidence of a general reserve of about 6 billion, 2 billion due to nursing and residence, and 1 billion due to child reform. The premise of these changes is factors where expenses are legal and, in many cases, also include certain individual improvement rights so that expenses will be controlled within the year only by a change in the law. The same applies to support, where expenses are more economic or systematic than the financial management of certain persons. The release of the year endpoint in 2017 does not require restrictions on the provision of Member States' transport and projects between years, as it has been in recent years. The laws relating to the transport of external expenses are clear. They shall move from year to year, and they shall be as good as the sheep of that year. As a result, it is mandatory to work at an earlier angle in the next budget year after it is formed. A respectable president. Clearly, the change in the implementation of a government account through the laws on public finances is better than that of the State Fund at any given time. Residence according to the national account of 2017 is strong, positive, and successful state funds. There is a overall improvement in the global report standard, GFS, better than budgeting. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to. The budget and the 2nd. to end this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u109	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize a policy on a merit tax bill. The bill's on the roof. 592, 432th issue of the council. The bill suggests that there is a change in credit laws. First of all, there is a suggestion to make changes in the law that will clearly determine the date of growth change, i.e. the date that marks the growth period of ingrowing growth and fission, when changes in the value tax cover cover cover more than one showdown period within the year. In this respect, opinions have been developed regarding the days of growth change that need to be addressed. Such opinions are especially evident when stress is changed during periods of innuendo based on an adjustment report most commonly submitted by the taxpayer so that a debt and involvement are obtained by the same tax change once again resulting in a complex growth bill. These proposals are based on a report by a service team on a set of values dates in the financial and economic tax provided in June. Second, it is suggested that a law be made that will further clarify the taxpayer of international airports here in accordance with what is in our neighboring countries. It is also suggested that certain international services and passengers be counted worthy of a valuable tax deduction. In addition to being in the international airports, the city airport, the Akureyri Airport, and the Eglavian airports are defined as international airports, as well as international airport airports, but the operator of international airports here is Isavia ohf. The recent losses have developed regarding the separation between the international factor and the national taxation policy of Istavia ohf. In this regard, one reference has been made to the Norwegian decree that rolls connected with the right to use airfields for transport are worthy of taxation from the operators of airports. Then it is specifically stated in the Norwegian values tax laws that a certain service to the operator of a commercial vehicle has been granted to a commercial vehicle crash, with a valid flight driver's license, to be a worthy extra tax. Similarly, the value of taxation due to public contacts in neighboring Europe is required in a similar way. By referring to the taxable operator of international airports, international airports will be in the same position as in our neighboring countries. Third, it is suggested that a new set of reimbursement regulations, recalculations and reassignments of the value tax should be established after the initial decision of the merit tax at each up-to-date period in accordance with national legislation on income tax, as per law No. 90/2003. Fourthly, the adjustment of the law's law's correction of the application of taxation due to the development of human vehicles for use in tourism has been proposed, but the sources added to the law and to the tax directive have been made available since the general value of the additional tax service since January 1, 2016. Fifth, it is suggested that the sources of foreign enterprises be set aside for reimbursement of value taxes for the purchase of goods and services here on the country for reselling and final consumption in Iceland in order to prevent possible competitiveness with national organisations. The suggestion presented here aims to further clarify these requirements. Sixth, there are several minor modifications made to the law or to an improvement in the law, which aims to enhance the clarity and further definition of its specific requirements. Among other things, there are changes to the law concerning the registration of parties of a valuable tax file and the obligation of the party which has been made of a credit bill due to the tax in the state's budget. As noted, this bill is the subject of a number of legal modifications. The change is not expected to have a significant impact on the survival of the State Fund. However, some supplementary income may be expected if the changes remain unchanged. The aim of instruments affecting the values of tax values is to increase clearly in government growth decisions. These are changes that contribute to clearer, more precise calculation of the administrative scale for the growth of pounds and on the part of endogenous growth, as well as increasing the level of rightness and equality. To the extent of blurred or doubt, the general basis for taxation could be the result of changes that reduce such events leading to slightly higher incomes for the state's funds. The financial impact on the state funds is not expected because of the changes in the implementation of international airport operators in this country will be clearly stated in the law on merit tax returns due to international air transport services and their passengers. Presidents of international airports in this country are now registered to a worthy tax file and therefore will not be changed. The change, however, will lead to increased awareness of the taxpayer's global flying system. Let us say that the changes are primarily for greater enlightenment. Enrollment will be intensified against the registration of the worthy tax file to support the submission of the registry at any given time, which will include registration and registration. The prerequisite for the reimbursement of the tax from the state fund. Other changes in the bill are then suggested to lead to greater awareness of the tax and the relations between the government and the government. Improvements in effectiveness in legislation and implementation are aimed at improving efficiency, which has a positive effect on the income of the GDP. The total amount of income that can thus be expected to be changed depends on the number and money in the many cases expected, on an improved tax gain from time to time. It can be estimated that there will be a gross effect on the income side of the income range between 10 to 6 million each year, especially due to the clear rules on the decision of interest and registration to the partners of a treatee tax. Since the regulations of the bill largely depend on increasing understanding of the laws, the approval of the bill is not expected to result in changes in spending. A respectable president. According to this, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee, after the end of this discussion and then through 2nd. Here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u110	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalise a change in income tax laws and the laws on the local payment of public pay. The bill contains suggestions for making four changes to the above laws. First, a review of the taxation of foreign legislation in low taxes, so-called CFC regulations, second of the Union taxation directive, third of the rules for a reserve of interest restrictions and, finally, taxation modalities of employees. [[Take it up: It's just crowded.]] The bill includes a review of the current CFC regulations for further explanations and on the basis of proposed international proposals. As with today's current provisions, the main purpose of a new arrangement is to allow taxation of CC office in this country to prevent or eliminate local taxpayers from bringing money to areas or countries that place low or no taxes in order to minimize or avoid taxation in Iceland. The current provision has been in force since 2010, but there is a need to sharpen and strengthen the provision based on international developments in the OECD region. The aim of these changes is primarily to ensure the proper distribution of taxes and to provide a warning effect on tax refugees. The bill also discusses a balance. The bill's proposal for changing the rules of partner integration is submitted to address the EFTA comment on the current common taxation regulations. According to the bill, a national flock of partners in EEA and EFTA countries as well as the Faeroe Islands, located here in the country, will be allowed to agree with other local communities. The bill also suggests the role of an expanded access to member of the Member States from the limitations of the growth process but the current expanded access to the specified one falls out of force on 1 January 2019. The exception will be linked to organizations that have access to common taxation. Rules on the limitation of interest clearance are aimed at favouring tax reform in cross-border trade practices between linked persons. The same evidence does not apply to domestic interest payments, but such transactions remain in general rules and bracelets. There are changes in tax obligations in the management of labour or other types of work done by foreign workers here on the construction or construction projects. There is a need to expand the responsibility and duty of the domestic parties as remuneration agreements of foreign workers for jobs in this country. A respectable president. In terms of the legislation of the bill, the review can be expected to be more effective in achieving improved tax returns directly or indirectly to CCS. Factors that the tax authorities are most likely to face in the monitoring of international communities are a problem in obtaining the necessary information and after reports of data. This is true not only of information about the existence of such associates but also of their income and other incidents. These problems will not be completely solved with this provision, but these are steps in the right direction. Experience has shown that there is a strong tendency to hide ownership of CFC societies and therefore it is difficult to assess the impact of the directive in terms of figures. It is thought that the bill of taxation will carry some additional cost, at least to a shorter time, where harmonization is opened by domestic areas that extend beyond the holy rocks. However, there is no way to assess this effect in crowns at this stage, but it will show that there is a decrease in income taxation due to concerted loss within the kit immediately observed over a longer period. The Regulation on the terms of annuity of income tax laws on the limitation of interest costs is not likely to result in an increase in cost to the state's funds, since the law has not come to include domestic partnerships. An assessment of the impact of the Community Directive on the export of employees on government income is considered to be a direct impact on individual income taxes, responses, and insurance bills. It is the financial and economic assessments that, as mentioned earlier, the impacts on increased income taxes will be between 50 and 100 million. K. per year, on average, a five - year financial program was published, an effect on an increase in insurance costs of 100 to 200 million per year on average. Likewise, the rural society will benefit from this provision. Thus, the overall impact on government income is estimated at 150 to 300 million. K. every year, after a person discount has been withdrawn to an extract. I've finished my case, Mr. Honorable President. I suggest that the bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u111	Mr. President. I recommend here for the bill on changing the financial law of political organizations and candidates and their information rights, No. 162/2006, with subsequent changes. This bill contains several key factors, but the prehistory of the case is that in February of this year, I appointed a committee of all political parties at the General Assembly, as well as a representative of the State Review Board, the Ministry of Directors and Justice, with the goal of reevaluing the laws on the political organization and its information rights. In addition to a general review of the law from 2006, the Commission was commissioned to review ways of dealing with anonymous elections and advertisements and to review ASE's comments, Safety and Cooperation Agency, of the Agency's report from 2 March 2018 on the total elections in October 2017. Soon after the committee first met, the decision was made to divide her subjects into two phases; first, it was to consider the necessary changes to be made in terms of political and political agreements laws, and on their information, No. 162/2006, but for anonymous campaigns in late stages of work. The results of the Commission on the first part of the project are reflected in this bill. The bill also contains matters that focus on possible anonymous election years instigation of political organizations, its elected representatives, and its candidates, as well as those of the individual candidates. As explained, this is discussed in paragraphs 11 and 12. The bill, however, takes over the law on only part of the complex problem we face. Other aspects of the problem will be considered in the ongoing work of the Committee and other improvement efforts by the Generals and the government. Involving the order of the Committee can be attributed to a resolution made by the presidents of six political organizations to a budget board less than a year ago, December 21, 2017, which included the Council of Jehovah's Witnesses on December 21, 2017. A search for prime minister started work on a legal review involving the representatives of all the political organizations in the General Assembly. In the work of the Committee, legislation in the Northern countries, Britain, France, and Ireland, as well as in the Baltic States, was examined and taken into consideration. It was mostly considered in terms of official grants and conditions for their distributions, the manner in which voluntary donations are conducted, and the rules for the publication of information, to name just a few. This new bill ensures the working conditions and independence of political organizations, increases transparency and strengthens democracy. This gives them increased responsibilities on the groups for public information and for Public Reunion on how the funds of the classes are spent. Satisfactory information for political parties to State Accounting will be conditions for the collection of funds from the state fund. It is expected that the public will be allowed access to all financial information that is important in the annual account to be published publicly. It's the first time because so far, all that has been required has to be published is a calculus of the year. The expenditure of costs for the Generals and the district elections will also be published separately and divided according to the authorship of the Government Accounting. The bill insists that political, elected representatives and candidates will not be allowed to finance, publish, or participate in the release of material or advertising in connection with a political struggle without the appearance of their names. As I mentioned earlier, this is only the first step to take in the political struggles against hatred propaganda, an anonymous note, slander, and attacks in political battles, but this is an important step and shows the firm will of all political parties at the General Assembly to reject such methods. The bill also includes the publication of the names of all the legal agencies that make contributions to political activity, without the maximum or minimum amount, as well as of any individuals who have donated more than 300,000 dollars. Political organisations may receive contributions from legislators and individuals up to 550,000. each year, but the amount of money given in the bill is based on the price update since this amount was last published in the law. There is also a new recommendation on how government funds will be prepared. Remuneration will be subject to the establishment of a political organization for at least 3 terms or more, and you can apply for a maximum concentration of 750,000. for every example offered in the election year. The budget is then proposed to political parties and basic development to groups at the Council guaranteed regardless of their size, but so far the contributions have been proportional to the total political party size at the General Assembly. Here's a groundwork supply of 12 million for each category that owns an elected man at the General Assembly. This creates a security system that enables classes to have people working in order to carry out legal duties for accounting, personal protection, information sharing, possession of data, and review. This has been a failure, and in many cases smaller groups have been virtually inefficient after the end of elections, since they have lost a follow and have difficulty caring for these basic responsibilities. It is suggested that the European Union of Icelandic rural society be obliged to set down guidelines on the payment of expeditation, not that it is only permitted as in the current law. These suggestions have been presented to the European Union Government of rural society, and it is evident that the rural community considers these burdensome provisions, but at the same time agree that it is important to have certain standards, communities. I believe it is important that the administrative and monitoring committee taking this matter into consideration get representatives of the European Union of the Community to meet with the local community's views and to review this, as it was our conclusion that it was important to provide the bill with these regulations and that this obligation was comparable between different rural communities. I'd like to say that this bill has been built for over a year in the cooperation of all groups at the General Assembly. In addition, representatives outside the council were given the option to attend a meeting of the Committee and to promote views. This made it a requirement to set up budgets for real activities that are proved by the written annual bill to the State Reunion to prevent groups that reach minimum votes in elections may be subscribed to contributions from the state's funds without being active. There are also increased responsibilities laid on non - II classes but still active. Then I'd like to say that the time the bill has been in progress has been added to political duties for the new protection laws. I believe that all political parties have heard reports that these new protective principles make political parties more complex and close to members who have voluntarily enrolled themselves and would like to share in the work. Furthermore, the point I put before the committee to address an anonymous note is that this struggle has taken on new images and developed. Thus, the secretary - generals have suggested that the parties continue to work at the crime scene, not merely on their financial matters, but on the whole of political parties. It is my opinion that it is a wise thing to hide the managers such ongoing work, which will then not be about the government funds to the classes, which I believe are in rather good shape with this bill and equal the facilities of small and large groups to the public, which I believe are important. At the same time, I feel that it is a wise approach to the executives to suggest that simply the entire political system will be established that will address personal protection, conduct and other aspects of which the political parties share in common despite having disagreements on most other matters. That is why they are likely different political parties. I believe that I have made an excellent account of the nature of this bill, and I would like to finally thank you for your cooperation with the prefects and representatives of every category at the General Assembly in its contribution. It is important, I believe, that the representatives and presidents of political parties can be able to cooperate on such matters. That's at least My assessment of politics after a long time may have been that democratic political movements have never been more important in times where we see the rise in politics in the world, a growing individualism that does not necessarily depend on the ideological and democratic structure of political movements, as we know from the past. So it is of importance that we look at it, because it has been a common industry and sport to speak down political parties, that we here think that these are fundamental institutions in Congress and democracies and that these institutions can do their part, making it possible for people to take part in politics through a democratic course in which people penetrate their political movements and operate in the spirit of a democratic way. So I think it's an important and good step toward making more demands on political parties in Iceland, tailoring them to a clearer frame and leveling their standards, but at the same time I think we should continue this work to make that frame even clearer and better. Mr. President. I suggest that this discussion be referred to. Board of Directors and Follow-up Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u112	Mr. President. With the laws on the financial affairs of political parties and their information rights, which took effect in 2007, political parties were to be funded by financial contributions from the state, while voluntary contributions from individuals and lawyers were limited. However, the effort is that the contributions have been halved, and at the same time, groups that divide the amount, increase in salary and prices have increased substantially over time and therefore needed to respond. I would like to commend the agreement that took place with this work and in preparing this bill, which was indistinguishable. With diminished financial resources, support for innovation, evolution, expert knowledge, and international relations is no political organization. Political groups have found it difficult to make ends meet to care for the most necessary political affairs and thus meet the objectives of the law. A vital step is taken in the bill we address here by ensuring the working conditions and independence of political organizations. Smaller groups have had trouble standing on their feet, so to speak. By means of their bill, their position is more loyal, and it is important for the government of the country. It is happy that now with this bill, fines can be used if advertisements or other material is published in a political or campaign without the appearance of who is involved. We have been experiencing challenges in changing political climates, and the importance of social media has continued to increase. This trend has created a channel in Iceland for anonymous advertising and is a threat to democracy. There is evidence to suggest that the spread of false news and that disproportionateness of a so - called troll factory has a significant impact on politics. It is important that political groups have the strength to cope with this trend and ensure at the same time and work at the same time to open a community, to freedom, and powerful democracy. We in the United States are all for this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u113	Mr. President. We're here discussing the financial issues of political parties and their information duties. Since the bill has been worked on a great deal of agreements and cooperation between eight different classes at the International Assembly of Iceland, I think the eight groups agree on all the details of this bill, but they agreed on it and all, I think, similar to the results. As for me and Marty, or at least for those of us here, this bill is a huge improvement, especially to three factors that are of great importance to us Pirata. First, it is transparent and monitoring for how the funds of the state are set aside, second of which is the anonymous propaganda, while it is necessary to improve and work more closely in that arrangement; and third, the basis for the economy is strengthened by small groups, and thus their democratic right to participate in our democratic community is also strengthened to match others. As far as these subjects are concerned, I wanted to draw out what we are pleased with in this bill. As for the transparency, I am pleased to be present to publish the total annual accounts, now to publish the names of all agencies that strengthen companies, and to have more demands on how these funds are used to monitor, e.g. that there is a requirement for financial management to receive relevant information. This is very important for transparency and monitoring, as I mentioned. In terms of anonymous propaganda, here is an important step, and I look forward to the development of other and more steps now in cooperation between the managers in order to handle these issues better. We know that there are other things to do to improve the use of anonymous propaganda and dens that travel through Internet worlds, sometimes a lot, and this is an important first step in that direction, and I want to celebrate it. At the latest, I'd like to mention that this will strengthen the foundation of small groups. How important it is that all groups of democracies can maintain basic functions in order to care for their members and their media. I think it's very important, and it's been very important to us in Pirates. It is a direct democracy, and in terms of equalities between parties, and it is also very important to me. I may want to make a decision at the end that I find it especially enjoyable to see that I also have a responsibility to give some kind of strength to political movements that offer and that guidelines will be put on it, and that it does not depend on whether your political movement, which achieves some progress in rural elections, will be given some support to continue working on the end of elections or not, but on the guidelines and on all to apply.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u114	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Prehistoric prime minister. There are several important points that I would like to highlight in the case of two final speakers, I would like to agree with them, and I would like to support them. We have put tremendous emphasis on, in cooperation across classes, increasing transparency in political organizations. It is important to try to make the most of it so that the overall credibility of the political world will increase and may not be enough. They're about to go inside, trying to explain and sharpen what are linked to financing. Certainly there were differing opinions, I know it, between the party groups, about the extent of the maximum individual enterprise and the legal level. In turn, we can also say that various viewpoints were taken into account. I want to first and last mention the translucency, information, to ensure that the accounts and accounts will be available to all and that the accounts can be considered and that they can be determined by each account. This is for indications from GRECO. I think it matters to us. This is an important step. But I also agree with what happened earlier. paritaprevir Ævarsdóttir Övarsdósdótir's challenge that this is only a step in further increasing credibility and political trust. Then it is important to associate us with what GRECO has repeatedly pointed out to us. I'd also like to highlight what we've been putting on fornicate, the highest. Prime Minister has included: Try to answer the questions of that subject, and that is about the anonymous propaganda we will see. I predict, and I don't think I'm a fortune-teller in that regard, I think we're going to see this more clearly in the next election, whether it's a country government, but not least on a national level. Some of us realized that propaganda was very tasteless, including some of them. to the highest. Prime Ministers and others of other categories We must deal with it, and we must not give up on it, even if it may be complicated. We are also to use the pressures they are putting on big companies like Facebook, how they will handle their social responsibilities. There, the European Union is very eager to put pressure on that company and other community media companies to do their thing, in order that we will eventually not be left with democratic elected agents who have used the surrogacy. I'm not necessarily going to talk about Trump in that relationship, but he'll still come to mind. Otherwise, many other factors can be drawn out. It can be drawn out that it matters, including. for little groups, to provide opportunities and opportunities to volunteer for councils or rural governments. They may not all be able to enter, but there is still a democratic process that is being assured that such an offer will receive some support. I think that's right, even if they don't get in. We are thus making sure that our discussion is open and that we have different viewpoints. I think it's very important. The precipitating process, which is important for large and small groups - especially small groups, it is always the same cost, no matter how large or small, in running minimum class activities. That's why I think it's important, and I insist that it be taken over and it's being done. I consider this to be an important part of building a democratic society with groups and taking it to the highest level. That is exactly what the prime minister said about the importance of political parties as democracies in the community. We must shoulder the responsibility of having the courage to control the important factors and things that political parties do. It is possible to debate the content and format and other issues, but it must be ensured that political parties can function normally and that the effects of special interest levels will be mentioned as well as those of the groups. That's what I'd like to also draw forward in this, that we're taking steps toward reducing the grip of economic resources, hopefully, on political parties, whether they're traditional or not. That's extremely important. I believe the classes will be with this independent, independent, and that is of utmost importance in all democratic discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-07-43.u115	Mr. President. I come up first and foremost to thank them. Councilmen here have spoken. I thanked the earlier classes especially for my cooperation, but when I was settled, I realized that I had not thanked the thankers, i.e. Government officials, of course, who have worked enormously on this bill. I want to take this opportunity and thank them for it. I reiterate that I think it's very important that, while we're understanding a lot of things, there's the scene we've had this year between the head of the United States General's Commission at the General. I think it's important. We're talking a lot about political trust here, and it's important that the political parties can at least together on the issue of political activities, what demands do we rightly expect that the government can lay hold on political parties, and how we feel we can enable them to meet those demands. As mentioned above, there is a minimum cost in the pursuit of political parties, and we want to be able to establish political parties that they are successful in handling matters properly. I think we're doing it on this bill and with the changes we make here. I also rejoice at what I hear from what I hear. Congress members that a rich will is in order to continue that work. I don't have any more words for this time, and I rest assured you that the case is now scheduled for administration and monitoring committees.
