ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u1	Borist wrote letters from Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson, Birks Bjarkey of Gunnarsdóttir Gunnsótttir, Braunri Níelsson, Logi Einarsson, Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, and Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson that they could not attend church service in the near future. So today, on Monday, October 15th, we have a seat at the General Assembly, where the 1st reserves for the 1st Reserver on the Smoke Company list. So, Jóhanna Vigdís Guðmundsdóttir, Mnættttttir 1 of the Left Motive List of Green Missions in the North. "Ingibjörg Þórðardóttir, Special Agent 1 of the Independent Party's Art in Smoke. So, Sverrisdóttir Sverrrisdótttir, 1st Deputy of the Union in the Northeast. "María Hjálmarsdóttir, Special Agent 1 of the National Frontier List. "Carrius Ingi Pétursson, and 1 strategist of the National Independence Party. "Valgerður Gunnarsdóttir. They have all, except for Jóhanna Guðmundsdóttir, previously sat at the General Assembly and are welcome back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u2	Guðmundsdóttir has already been Jóhanna and accepted, but it has not taken place in the Council before, so it is necessary to Vigdís the commitment to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u3	Vigdís Guðmundsdóttir has signed his commitment to the Constitution and is welcome to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u4	The president wants to report that on Friday, October 12, President Erla Magnea Alexandersdóttir and others responsible for the collection of signatures to support older citizens and microplies. For example, hand them a list of 7,905 electronic signatures under the heading Do Not Necessary in Early Years. With it, the ideal older citizens and the desperate are protested and asked for more pensions. The president thanked them for this initiative, stating that he would bring this matter to the attention at a meeting, as well as to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, the Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs and the General welfare Committee. The business has been presented in a reading hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u5	Borist has received a letter from the Foreign Minister, Minister of Health and Environment and Resources where the requested deadlines are needed to provide written answers to panel requests. 94, 99 and 101, on advice and on temporary or limited tasks, from Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunugason.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u6	To answer, health ministers, travel, industrial and innovation ministers, marine and agricultural ministers, foreign ministers, and Ministers of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u7	Mr. President. Education and innovation are essential to the competitiveness of nations and economic growth. This knows the best. A government, as shown by its covenant. Earlier this month, Paul Romer received the Nobel Prize in Economics for showing how knowledge, research, and man - made progress in economic progress. Romer's most well-known study shows that the tendency is to protect too small from intervention in non-interventional studies, which means that it requires intervention to support innovation, research and development in communities. Icelandic knowledge and innovation companies have criticized the roof on reimbursement of research and development costs for innovation companies and a number of innovation companies have moved these valuable jobs to countries that offer better. According to a government contract, reimbursement costs for research and development should be reimbursed in order to eliminate such reimbursed roofs. It's a financial bill, tops. However, the government does not provide a definitive application of roofs on the reimbursement of research and development costs of innovation companies. If this is to be done more slowly than was originally put in place, it will immediately affect the competitiveness of companies. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister of innovations: Why is decommissioned to reimburse research and development costs not put in place as it is the action considered to stimulate innovation, support the creative drive of industry, and improve competitiveness in general?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u8	Mr. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for the inquiry. It's true that this is important to us. In recent years we have taken an important step in this being, and this roof was raised three years ago, if I'm correct, rather than two. This change has been successful, and it was welcomed, not just by procrastinators or growing young companies, but by research companies, innovations, and development. The government covenant describes it as the goal of removing the roof. It's not a specific date. We suggest that this be done in step. The financial program is expected to add another 600 million, to the extent that this can be estimated, we can't control the effort of companies in research and development. But that change will also matter. I have stressed that I look to the countries that are more successful in extracting the roof. The action on this must matter. This calls for a great deal of cooperation with the Ministry of finance, and this work is being done. But as I say, there was no time in a government contract when the roof would be removed. We are taking progressive steps some years ago and are taking progressive steps now. The goal is still to remove the roof. We stress being strong there. We cannot compete at all fronts, but in this place we are going to be competitive, so we take these steps with the goal of removing the roof.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u9	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. In this context, it is surprising to note that, according to budgets, contributions to innovation, knowledge fields, and research are to be taken up by 2.6%, or 377 million next year. As a result, I ask the highest. Minister: Does it reflect the priorities of the government in support of these intelligent companies and in the general creation?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u10	First of the surgery, he has a reasonable explanation. Inside this number is e.g. More than 100 million who have carried out the project on Backka, which is now ending and normal to be removed, and some other factors also naturally disappearing. Asking whether it reflects your priorities. I've had that question before, both last year and now, if I'm happy with the amount of money that goes into a novelty. Then I've said that I've stressed that we're going over the amount of money that is considerable, about 8,910 billion per year, all of them going to the right place, whether they're going to do the work we want them to do, or if they're not going to do it. I believe that the extent of our innovation and how loyal governments support innovation will not only bring about the financial cost of that state but rather the environment. [[The president calls.]] That's what we do. We work hard and steady. Of course, the new creation is a key work there. There may be suggestions that will require additional expenses or some additional contributions from these funds. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u11	Mr. President. The EFTA Court passed judgment on Iceland on November 14, 2017, where the European Union's legislation on animal diseases and on protection and protection against the spread of infected products is violated by the European Union's directive. This case is often referred to as the raw meat, and in short, the prohibition against import of raw and processed meat products, eggs and milk is not compatible with the EEA Convention's requirements. To date, it has been forbidden to import meat into the unheated country. The ban was surprising with 13 different sources. The agreement to protect livestock and human health at risk of cross-infection to the country with raw meat. After EFTA Court, the National Institutes of the National Social Affairs stressed that negotiations would be made with the European Union to look for ways to maintain the Family of freezing. I'd like to start by asking the highest. Minister: What did the discovery of Icelandic officials and the EU have to do with this EFTA sentence? What talks were asked for? What was their objective? Will they continue? Last week, Iceland's Supreme Court sentenced the United States to violate its commitments to the EEA agreement by maintaining a ban on the import of raw meat to the country. What attracts special attention to the judgment is the shortness of it. The judgment points to an important argument of the state, e.g. for animal diseases. So I want to ask the highest. Agricultural Minister: What is the reaction of the government to this court? What's the big deal? A cabinet minister with the rest? Will Minister now provide a bill allowing the full import of raw foods and other animal products, food, yesterday, etc., and thus endangering our clean agriculture?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u12	A respectable president. Thank you for the inquiry that was complex. There have been two formal meetings with the European Commission on this issue. They were held this year in April. We plan to request further meetings there. It is true that before a weekend, the judgment of the Supreme Court, which is relatively short and simple, fell. In fact, it establishes the previously dead district and is also consistent with the findings of the EFTA Court. It's all one way. A national commitment has been made to Iceland. This was prepared in 2007, and the European Union's position is relatively clear in these matters and the judgment of the courts. The Supreme Court mentions it, e.g. in its judgment that the objective of protecting lives and health of humans and animals in business in the EEA cannot be referred as shown in Article 13. The EEA Convention, as a dog. A senator mentioned earlier. Right away. A senator asks what will happen, if the minister will submit a bill on these subjects, I say: "Yes, my Senate will expect a bill in February next year to be taken to the decision of the judicial hearings. I can't answer anything about it at this moment how it's gonna look, it's still under construction. Various actions will also hang on to this matter, actions that must be taken to see whether the judgment will be completed in one way or another. I'll see if I can find those points in my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u13	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. In fact, 13. The EEA Convention, listed here for the protection of livestock and human health, has, in fact, been canceled by the Supreme Court and the EFTA Court. Of course, that cannot be the case. It's got to happen at a counter. This has to happen in treaties with the European Union. Then I'm going to ask the government or the highest. Minister to settle the case? I think it's very important to do that. I'd also like to step aside in this regard: What demands will be made to the domestic manufacturers, if the result is that here is going to flood raw meat? I have now, for example. reliable evidence that in the European Union, only two species of salmon are screened in domestic birds, but this country is screened for all or more species. Then I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Will there be more demands for domestic production than for foreign products?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u14	A respectable president. I answer right away that it is unnatural for us to be stricter demands for domestic production than for foreign countries. Such a course makes no sense. Simply put, we are to make the same demands on our production as we do for others. It's very simple to me. I'm pointing out what. It belongs to a senator when he says 13. and with this judgment was abolished, that it was not. The Icelandic government produced in its own way, and in the 2006 Treaty it was put to the extreme of keeping the requirements from Iceland for importing raw meat. The European Union did not agree with this in 2006. As a result, a contract was made that said otherwise. That is, in fact, the contract commitment we now hold, i.e. It is illegally introduced by Icelandic legislators, that it is not compatible with the government contract, and it was led to a conclusion in 2006/007. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u15	Mr. President. The present is the Council of the Council of the European Parliament on behalf of the Generals. That's why I come up here and talk to the highest. Foreign Minister for the Council of Europe, the number one front guard of human rights protection in Europe and elsewhere. As a minister is known, however, the European Parliament's operation has been upset for some time because of the absence of Russia's delegation from the council since 2015 and later because the Russians have refused to pay their legal dues for over a year. In fact, the Russian debate with the Council of Europe reached a critical point in the past week during the recent Council of Europe when certain changes in the Council of the Council of Europe could not have been overcome that could have been considered as a step forward to reconciliation between Russia and the Council of Europe. In view of these events, it may be possible that the Russians will leave the Council of Europe in one way or another with serious consequences for the future of the European Council and the more serious consequences for the citizens of Russia, who will no longer enjoy the protection of the European Convention. My question to the Minister, on account of this sequence, is two things. First, what will a minister do to try to make peace and keep the Russians inside if anything? And, if everything goes wrong, and the Russians walk out of the Council of Europe, will the Ministers suggest that the remaining 46 Member States run on the Council of Europe for financial purposes and provide the 10% budget of the European Council that is lost in Russian exits?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u16	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. The Senator was in charge of a position we know. I had a meeting with Thorbjørn Jagland, New York, a few weeks ago, where he put me in those cases. At this point, we have made no decision as to how we react or whether it is right for us to enter the relationship between the Russian and the European Council. Jagland Jagland knew well in Iceland and wanted to talk to us even. because of the position that's up there. She's serious and unfortunate. But we have not sat down especially now after the events of the present system of things. A senator refers to him. If I understand why. In this case, there is a very difficult time for a member of the council. But we will do what we can to support the European Council, and I agree that this is not a good thing for the public in Russia. Of course, the matter is very complex and difficult, and it involves events that we all know that have had far greater influence than just those involved in the Council of Europe. At this point, the answer to the query is simply this: It is not established that we have made any decisions about this, but no one has asked us to enter the matter. Regarding the second question, it is important to make sure that the European Council can perform its function. The nature of the matter, according to this plan, requires funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u17	Mr. President. Thanks for the answer. I want them to point it to the highest. Minister to review the case as soon as possible. I had not imagined that Iceland would lead to negotiations with Russia as far as the European Council is concerned, but that we were at least aware of the current situation and would be willing to use us to settle if necessary. However, I lacked the answer to the question of the highest. To meet the 10% that the Council of Europe loses its budget on Russian exits, a minister sees to it that they provide additional contributions to the Council of Europe. I might add to the question of whether a minister could support the cooperation of the so - called NB8 countries, or all the Arctic roads, in terms of meeting the canning; take a good example, even over a short period of time, stating that we are ready to meet the problem. If it came from little Iceland it would be, for example. It's harder for Germany to get away from that. This money is small in the international context. This is an enormous amount of money, if you see a much larger global cooperation, with much more money involved. [[The president calls.]] Will a minister take advantage of the fact that we do not have to look forward to an enormous cuts in the future work of the Council of Europe? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u18	A respectable president. I'm expecting us to discuss this at the national level, as well as NB8. I think it's important that we stay close to our close friends, whether it's in this or to a lot of others, but maybe especially in this. At this point, I don't think it's right to have large statements on what might be related to Russian exits. Let us hope that humans will reach some conclusion that is more acceptable. Let's start by seeing what's gonna happen. Most people think it's better to have them in there than not, despite the fact that a dispute has been caused by a Russian career. So let us hope that they will remain inside and support Jagland Jagland on that project. [[The president calls.]] Then we'll deal with the situation that comes up if it comes up. That is where our will is to support the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u19	A respectable president. Last year, 13 fatal accidents occurred in traffic. When a fatal accident occurs in traffic, all traffic stops at the site of the fatal accident. The NTSB is called the NTSB. A blue flash and the scene of the accident is examined, formed, made up of a report; it is all for the sole purpose of ensuring that accidents do not occur again, in an attempt to avoid accidents. At the same time, more than half as many people have died in car accidents. Young people in the prime of their lives. There's no blue light flashing. What happens when a person commits suicide? Where's the research team? Who's going to the place? Who are making reports to inform those in their midst? Nothing, just registered. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Is it not time for us to do something about this matter, that it does not matter how people die, that these issues are under trial? It's not natural for us to say that people take their own lives, that they have no answers, and that we are just going to shrug our shoulders. If people die in traffic accidents, why the accident and other factors are vital. I'd like to ask a minister, " Isn't he in agreement with me in that we need to do a thorough research? '
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u20	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator of this inquiry. You should keep it in place to highlight this particular party, i.e. This part of the discussion of mental health problems that attract suicide is increasing worldwide. In fact, during the days a special minister was appointed to these matters in the British government, i.e. issues related to such suicide, both preventive and extramarital measures, are high on paper. I was recently presented with the conclusion of a group of working men who specifically discussed measures that would result in the cessation or reduction of the risk of suicide as far as possible. That work was promoted by the surgeon's office and by the extramarital control of the strategy. Among other things, this leads to a lack of sleep. A senator mentions, which is a more detailed registration and analysis of the current issues, as well as the general emphasis on mental health prevention in general. Because suicide is often an endpoint in a very serious mental disorder, it is therefore important that we keep on the watch as far as the prophylaxis factor and the public health programme are concerned. I've received a pack of action from a team where they're gathered to be best acquainted with these matters. In short, I support and accept all the proposed actions and contribute special funds this year to push them out. In my second answer, I'll consider it further.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u21	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I think we agree. But where to begin? It is now 278 million. K. less than 2009. A year after year is being cut out for the nursing home of the U.S.A., which is the main tool that helps our young people. It is in every part of the system, even the Autosave Home is cut down. All medical facilities are being cut off. At the same time, there is a collapse in which the health system almost collapsed. Mental - health issues are in a state of paralysis. There must be a number one priority for us to make sure that if we are going to make people believe that we're doing something, we're doing something.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u22	A respectable president. Hv. In his second question, a senator came to many places. I want to make it very clear that we are adding a great deal to our mental health - health care - we have done so far, on the budget of the current year, and will do even better in 2019, especially with regard to health care care in our health care and country. We're adding psychiatrists and mental - health professionals everywhere on the field of health care. Hv. A senator refers to what has been spoken of on the part of a community of welfare services that consider themselves to be embarrassed by the lack of financial resources, but I dismiss them as declarations. Budgets have been recalculated annually, the network of these households has been supported by 1.5 billion, i.e. 6% when this contract went into force 2016, and the total pay for the day-to-day budgets was for the value of the Treaty 2016 27.2 billion but are, according to budget 2019, 34.7 billion, which is less than 28% increase in this period.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u23	I'd like to have a place to talk to. Agricultural minister for the import of fresh meat. During the past week, judgment, as was done here, fell to the subject earlier in this question period. That was not an unexpected judgment. He was, in fact, highly predictable and fully confirmed both the judgment of the district and then the judgment of the EFTA Court. I think, therefore, that the import ban on fresh meat was illegal. The question is, What is the response? I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers to protests that have been dropped, not by ministers themselves, but by former foreign ministers and former agricultural ministers, why. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, who has an interview with Visi, expresses himself on the way that a review of the EEA Convention will not be able to maintain this import on fresh meat. I think it is imperative that the minister speak very clearly in these matters. I know he's been communicating with the press. I think it is very important that he express himself on this aspect of the matter, whether he sees it as a matter of opinion or a particular opinion that he wishes to submit a review of the EEA Convention or to abandon it in any way, in response to this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u24	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. The answer to a question why. The senator is no. I don't even think about leaving the deal, that's a very simple matter. When we discuss this so - called raw meat, it is quite true that this has been happening for some time, the policy of the government of 2009-2013, as well as that from 2013-2016 it was to maintain protection on the case, and at that time, there was nothing in preparation for any other conclusion than the law's thinking. The conclusion now stands, and this is a complicated solution. It is. To me, the issue is now number one, two, and three about getting additional insurance to salmonella infections that our neighboring states have had. It'll take some time to get it. Likewise, protection against hypoglycylobacter infection. Both of these cases are in progress. Similarly, when discussing the import or trade of the European Union, we do well to remember that about 90% of the products we import from the European Union to Iceland are free of toll while the share on the other side of the sea is 29%. So you can't claim that which I know is wrong. A senator is not doing, but I would like to stress that Iceland is a very closed country in the comparison that often wishes to become in our customs policy here and the customs policy in the European Union. I think we're a much more open country in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u25	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Agricultural minister for a very clear and clear answer. I didn't expect anything else, but it's a pleasure. Of course, the rest is not easy, as is the highest. A minister mentioned that for many years the government has not prepared for the obvious conclusion in this matter. Then you must ask, because in the Library of Congress you expect a bill in February to respond to this court: What position is an enterprise that intends to import fresh meat products? I think it's a bit serious if you have to wait from October 12 until March, April, or May the following year, after the state and the Council have rules on this matter. I'm afraid there's a chance that the state could be making a liability, and I'm worried about it on behalf of the state funds. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u26	A respectable president. Yeah, I'll share their concerns with you. Senator. The Supreme Court's conclusions are very clear and clear and clearly in place. On the other hand, I noticed in the news yesterday, reminding myself, since the management of the company of professional drivers expressed himself on a chat show, that he recommended it and discussed it in a way that would be normal for us to build defenses against Salmonella and Campobakter and when they lay low, we brought this into law. I share that opinion, that's how I look. It'll take us time, as I mentioned earlier, to collect these extra insurance. It took Dani or Norwegian ten years. We are fondling and hoping that it will take us a year. I applied for it this summer. There was a new national programme that needed to be established. So we've been adamant with time for several months to ensure our position in this regard. [[The president calls.]] This is working as fast and as fast as we can. On the other hand, I ask people to remember that this means a very large and serious challenge for the raw meat market here in the country, including farmers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u27	V.E.G. President. The nation is getting older, and this presents many challenges for us as a community. Longer life span calls for added emphasis on the quality of life of older ones, and health is the most important factor in life. It is clear that the effective health efforts of older people in a consistent manner improve both physical and mental health, reduces hospitalisations in medical institutions and thus the pressures on the health system. Medical therapists provide services aimed at improving, maintaining, and controlling physical and physical function. They help people throughout life when they are affected by aging, accidents, disease, disease, condition, or environmental factors. V.E.G. President. Western communities have added emphasis on promoting treatment in the form of training under the motto: Training is a medical treatment. The health activities of older ones also contribute to the unity and efficacy of the group and to the reduction of isolation, where regular exercise and planning gives people a fixed point in life. A discussion of the oldest group of community and its services has often eluded the care of nursing homes, home care, and the care of doctors, but not much of the exercise, absence, and other pleasant things. Farmers have cooperated with the office of surgeons, with good results, with projects involving public health and, in particular, health - control society that most know. In addition, Rhinestown and Hafnarfjörður have made a contract for a wide range of health habits among older people under Guðlaugsson the son of Gudla. There is no need to question the benefits of such prevention by society. So it is urgent to ask the highest question. Minister if there is any intention of supporting this approach. Where there is a strong synergistic effect between community service and medical care, I would also like to ask the highest level of questions. Minister: Are there plans to establish the cooperation of rural society and the State on the health of older people?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u28	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. It may be the first thing to say that a group of elderly people are in very many parts of the system, as it were. Of course, these issues are part of a medical profession, including precautionary and public health; they are social issues in other aspects of management and other aspects of the work done by the Ministers of Social Affairs, but also community service of the local community. All these issues overlap in some way. It is important that rural society and the state cohesive to a better degree than we have been making in terms of integrating the forwards of this service to those who enjoy the ministry. We haven't done enough on that kind of thing, as far as I'm concerned. Yet, there are exemplary issues. they're as good as dead. A senator mentions here from certain communities. I'd also like to mention that integration of home care and home service has been very effective in the capital area, and it's a pleasure to see, as it were. A senator, in particular, mentions projects that work with Janus rehabilitation at Smokejanestown and Hafnarfjörður. Of course, there is a part of this work on a highly fixed and clear scale, such as the introduction to health and health - related schools, which are completely in line with the UN's global goal, and is focusing on the integration of the entire service in one place. There is also increased emphasis on health care visits to the elderly from house to house, the general monitoring of health, physical, mental, and social health, motor tips that serve as treatment options offered throughout the country, as well as the position of a land doctor with special preconceived education on his website for the elderly. I think I can answer a question. So there is good reason to strengthen even more fully the good work being done and to add closer together with those who do this work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u29	V.E.G. President. I thank the Minister for these answers. I think we all agree on which way we want to go. We've been in our society too much shut down, we're often too rigid in form, instead of trying to make our systems talk better. Yet, we are trying to do so many times, and we are working in some way, as is the fact that psychologists have been added to the medical profession. I think it was a very good step. The emphasis is on working through technology. Where it has been done, e.g. in an Oriental country where I know it, it's been very good. People from different kinds of health care are working together. I think it's really important. If you start thinking only about the future, when everything becomes automatic and automatic equipment cleans everything and even cares for the most personal needs, we may be able to focus more on the human factor; be more together, talk, and move together.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u30	A respectable president. I agree in principle, and I also want to mention that this is happening, and I'm aware that more rural society has expressed interest in taking a similar course as it does in Hafnarfjördur and Smokey Town. I've had a very good presentation on these projects, and it's not just that when you look at them at opportunities to feel that they're funny and positive and positive, but they're simply measurable results from those who show themselves in measurements of certain health factors at a particular time. It is certain that public funds, whether on the scene of a rural or a state, are wisely planned on such projects. I'd like to say for my part and the Ministry that we're going to be very supportive of the activities of these injuries. I would especially like to welcome the initiatives of the locals in this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u31	V.E.G. President. Thank you for taking this matter on the program. The subject of sheep farmers. In each Member State, domestic labour agreements are between 2016 and 10 years of age, and 2026, including a livestock market agreement for sheep and the conditions for sheep farms. In addition to maintaining confidence in the State's support of the article, the contract focused on quality management based on the well-being of animals, wholesome products, environmental protection, sustainable land use and a more broad range of quality products at fair prices for consumers. In other words, the goals may not have completely worked out as well as one of the top projects. Governments, tops. A minister was responding to the problems of sheep farmers. For a review, I'm going to read from a committee party or something. The budget board on budgets for 2017, by permission of the President: ▪ During the year, problems due to the loss of exported goods have been particularly difficult for the sheep and farmers involved. The losses resulting from the European Union's commercial war and Russia have resulted in a significant decrease in income, but the commercial war is a result of political decisions that result in failure. Sheep farms are an important foundation for rural development, and its weak status has a major impact on the development, growth, and ability to support social bases with inhabitants. Sheepfolds are particularly sensitive in certain areas of the country, and in the Treaty on the working conditions of sheep breeding from 2016, the particular value of the article is emphasized for a specific structure [...] The greater part believes that arrangements in the budget will underline the seriousness of the situation and that measures cannot be delayed. It can work against bankruptcy and urban disorders. Other measures other than those directly involved in farmers are intended to improve in the long run the sector and thus the strength of its farms. In agreement with a marine eco-efficiency minister, a greater proportion of the funds and the solution were provided to meet this problem and market problems in the article and lower prices would be made in a special contribution on 2017 budgets, with a sum of 665 million. K. which divides into 400 million. K. received general support, 150 million. K. in regional support, 50 million. K. in general carbon equations and innovations and 15 billion. K. in the assessment of the yield system, with a view to reducing the cost of slaughter and improving the economy in this article and 50 million. K. to show that, if the assessment were to show, the management of slaughterhouses. The current domestic labour agreement includes expected the payment target to disappear during the contract period. The government's support forms change during the contract period, adding emphasis on quality production, based support, and increasing the value of sheep products. We need to see how this has worked out in the past. At the review of the 2019 Convention, you will see how the production of sheep products and products in the article has developed, the progress of the export and the objectives of the contract have been achieved. The development of habitat size and the number of inhabitants should also be considered. As a result of the review of the total value of farms in the total value of the article, additional amounts have been aimed at increasing the export of sheep stocks, resulting in an increase in the share of farmers. If this is not achieved, re-examination of bone grafts should be performed. A respectable president. In view of the situation and the future and the conditions we need to consider, for example, the article needs attention. Whether it is considered, as the agreement says, to reexamine the subsidence of bone payment according to a payment policy. For the discussion here, I leave three direct questions to the highest level. Minister. 1st What is the position of the Ministry's interview with sheep farmers for reviewing the contract on the job conditions of sheep breeding? 2. Is a minister willing to enter the current contract in order to halt the payment of a next year's payout? 3. Are there any ideas or suggestions developed regarding changes in the product environment in sheep culture that would lead to convenience within the sector?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u32	A respectable president. I want to thank you first. At the end of his talk, a member of the council is going to tap on a large subject and answer the three questions he raised. First of all, I'd like to pause at the question that leads to the position of the discussion. They began formally in August. I received June/July's monthly proposals for the review of the livestock contracts, according to the conditions of sheep breeding. The formal talks between the Ministry and the local community began, as I had a chance at some point in August 20. They have in my mind and, according to my information, gone quite well, many ideas being discussed. I've stressed my business with people in my contracts to discuss and accept the ideas that have come from farmers, but also to put much emphasis on increasing the freedom of farmers. My main focus is to increase the freedom of farmers to use the support of a wide range of activities, to reduce production potential, and to give greater emphasis on domestic markets to increase the market balance. I know that the representatives of both parties have worked hard to get together over basic lines, but they'll sort out a few smaller opinions and some legal aspects. When it comes to asking if a minister is willing to enter the current contract to put an end to the payment of a next year's payout, I am quite willing to do so if there is an agreement between the parties in the Convention Committee. The current agreement in Article 15.2 stipulates this loss of bone payment; it should be reviewed in 2019; but if the objective of a 7.5% increase in farm life in the overall prices of this article is not reached from January 1, 2017 to 2019, this should be done. To be said, it is virtually impossible for this goal to be achieved. By itself, we must enter the contract. One feature of the current discussion is the discussion of how to sharpen the correcting of bone repairs and quality control repairs. In fact, the treaty assumes that by 2026 the pay will be added year by year to zero, at the end of the existing contract. So I'll answer that question. A senator in a positive way, but he has warned that negotiations are still open and treaties are not in themselves over. Finally, it is asked whether there are any ideas or suggestions on changing the product's legal environment in sheep culture that could lead to practicality. Yes, there is the ideas of a team of collaborators on reviewing the market agreements on the possibility of cooperation within the sector, especially as it is available in transporting amulets and slaughterings. I don't know exactly where the job is, but I am stressing that what would happen in these areas must resist the principles of competitive surveillance and the factors involved. I have no faith in anything other than that such ideas can be developed in order to succeed if man's will is involved. I'd like to mention right at the end of my case, but there's no clock here for the puzzle, just to mention that I had a meeting this morning with China's agricultural and marine rights minister. It's a little bigger than the department here. There's a deal between China and Iceland that the Secretary of State has taken care of. I took advantage of that and signed a co-operation statement with this colleague of mine in China about the possibility of marketing, including Sheep products in China. I think there's a lot of possibilities there. Each year, they eat some 80 million tons of meat, those living in the Chinese Common Republic. A small portion of it is a lamb, no more than 5 million tons. We are here with the total annual production of just over 10,000 tons and are complaining about its overproduction. There must be a chance that we could come some things, even if only the thighs and scavengers, on the east side. It will be fascinating to see how we can cultivate our relationship with China in this regard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u33	It seems that there's a problem with the clock. If it doesn't fit right now, President intends to signal netting with the bell when half a minute remains. But most likely it's working, and we hope for the best.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u34	Madam President. I'd like to begin the speech by saying thank you for the voter, please. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson for the discussion. Icelandic agriculture is so important to us. It is not by default to carry agriculture on this island in the north of the prom sea, so some would say that it is normal for us to have as much as possible if not the most support we can give to agriculture. But does this support serve as a sign of prayer? Does this support them for Icelandic consumers? Unfortunately, it does not seem to be. Despite a steady increase in sheep markets, sheep farmers have just crapped it, pardoning the language, Madam President. On top of that, we produce about one third of more sheep than we do ourselves. Then you'd think there was an obvious opportunity to export. Unfortunately, however, the fact is that the state of the state, with the other hand, who puts considerable money in the market of lamb abroad, especially in the United States market, is damaged for the sale of Icelandic product on the same market by the host of whaling. There, obviously, being thrown to calmer interests for my memory. Madam President. When we dive into the agricultural sector in Iceland, it is not clear what Iceland's policy is in, and we must call for such a policy. We need to look at all the Icelandic agriculture and stop looking at some unique articles. What do we want to do in Iceland? How much do we want to make? How do we want to produce it? What products do we want? How do we guarantee consumer interests? How do we increase innovation? Do we want to get on the loose? Are you sure it's a constant increase in production? How do we contribute to the energy exchange of agriculture? And how do we remind you of the agricultural carbon trajectory? Madam President. We need to answer these questions. We need to shape new agricultural policies.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u35	V.E.G. President. Thank you for taking up this case. Hv. A senator who spoke before me said that farmers were pretty shitty. They've got so many shits about who they have to do a full-time job while living, I'm talking about sheep farmers. It's totally unacceptable. The situation is exactly the same if it wasn't worse than it was at the same time last year when we were in the campaign. When I was thinking about what to talk about, I thought of our campaign policy in the Central Party. I'd like to quote it here, with permission of the highest power. President: ▪ In our country, we live in Iceland to own our own agricultural product, which we must protect and support by all means available. It should not be forgotten that support for Icelandic agriculture is just as much a support to consumers, thus guaranteed access to wholesome food. All our neighbors and most of the world's nations support their agriculture and protection. Therefore, Iceland has to protect its production in the same way that it should compete. In addition, the support of agriculture is far different in value and employment, both rural and urban, and is at the wisest way to keep the whole country built, while the role of agriculture in rural areas is seriously underestimated. Therefore, it is important to consider the overall interests of the country and correct the ideals of farmers if this is not being considered as having no food security for the nation and food security. So there is an amazing design for the cohesive office of food and agriculture under the international office. It would have been almost strengthening to the office of food and agriculture, thus increasing the value of Icelandic agriculture within the Ministry rather than to place the office in a drawer in the international office. [[The president calls.]] Now that there is no need to consider that clean and wholesome farming has all that is needed if properly cared for.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u36	President wants less of it. The members of Congress are to respect speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u37	Madam President. It was observed that there has been a rapid review of the sheep part of the livestock agreement, and there are suggestions available from the consultation group and interviews. I think it's very important that the results of the operation are as early as the first time so that sheep farmers have a vision in their business. All of us know of the difficulties and problems that have been brought on in this article and the low wages of farmers who have only sheep to live in. That's what happened to you. In the past, most sheep farmers have to work with their residents if they have any means at their disposal. I'm worried that maybe we're going too fast to reduce the production of lamb. What do we do if we have to increase production if the demand increases? It can be very difficult to increase production and rebuild the farms that leave the store. We need to emphasize the need to support generation change. We're producing something about 10,000 tons, and there's been some 7,000 sales, which work about 4,000 people directly on agriculture outside all the jobs that are left over there. This is the sinew in large areas, even in the sheepfold, and gives much building. We need to increase flexibility in production to deal with sales fluctuations, e.g. to lower the proportion of intentions and thus to draw out the incentive to produce if farmers would keep their direct payment. This would be no charge for the state. But food security is important. Sheeping is the part that guarantees us if we maintain the rightfulness of our country's food security.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u38	Madam President. This discussion requires that the State be included in agreements dealing with the funding of sheep raising and, in fact, are elements that should normally be solved on the market. It is interesting to conclude that the results are being reviewed in the case of an increase in export. It seems to me like the urge not to expand export is included in this. I know, however, that fine men at the National Institutes have been working on the efforts to expand their export. But we are always in the same trouble as when the State is in the way it is today, sheep growing naturally. New Zealand is often referred to as going on the market route with its agricultural products a few years ago and has experienced a much improvement in the problem. Some might say that it's something that only works in New Zealand because they're so special, but I'm going to point out that vegan farmers here have experienced the exact same change. When it first passed through, the production of several species, including some species, was certainly reduced. Paprika. But now some years later, more production is than already produced, and the situation has improved, the price to consumers is lower, and the products are actually better. True, this is still a fortified market, but by trusting farmers to do things well themselves and to be commercially competitive, we can both get a better product and free ourselves from the problem that political boys are always in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u39	Madam President. I want to start by thanking the advocate for bringing up this important subject. The sheepfold is at the root of the Icelandic soul. The nation has just survived the sheep through the darkness of the Middle Ages, cold, volcanic eruptions, and pestilences. If it were not for the sheep, there would be no doubt that the nation had survived into this century. Thus, the sheep have led the nation through dark centuries, just as the rule of Icelandic government, which is unique in its order, led its flocks and their shepherd to the right way to a house and a place of refuge, and brought them home safely. It is important that we make our own food products. We were aware of this after the last bank crash - I was aware of my work as the head of the Western Public Defense Committee - that food supplies were being counted literally, in checks, how much there was to do with them and the rest. It was absolutely uncertain what would happen to us as a nation, whether we could feed ourselves, whether other nations wanted to do business with us, sell us their products, or whether we could usually pay for them. We had such a serious situation. I would like to use this first speech to show that I think it is very important that we contribute to and strengthen the sector of sheep making and other agriculture for the nation as far as we can secure food in this country that is an island in the middle of the Atlantic.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u40	Madam President. First, I want to thank you for this important discussion. It is urgent that we approach her with a measure of practicality and accept what is well done, but we also try to face up to what we need to do. Thank you very much. Minister for detailed answers he gave earlier. I especially welcome specific factors that highlight the balance. We must try to balance the domestic production process and master the overproduction. A year ago it was clear that the problem of sheep farmers was there. But he was not completely clear. In the first place, it was said that there were 2,000 tons of extra supplies in the country, that something had to be done. The supply grew to about 1,000 tons, and then much less. What does this tell us? This tells us that we need to get more relevant data, but we also need to go on the report that I think is very important to our products. At the same time, such evaluations need to be the basis for discussion, at the highest level. Ministers have talked about, the government, the slaughterers, and farmers about changes that result in real benefits to farmers but also to consumers. I think we can do this. We need to think of how we reduce the cost of slaughter, how we need to think about economic management in this article, and how we encourage the system to increase a more direct relationship between farmers and consumers. It's important that we dare watch the agriculture for a long time. It was remarkable that less than a year after the implementation of the livestock contract, the grandest of the flocks of sheep were shown. Then there is something wrong with the basic document agreement. Now we have the opportunity to achieve a solidarity on how we will continue building under the agricultural system, to strengthen the agriculture for a long time, so that sheep farmers can survive this article. But we must also have the courage to tear off the patch and say, "We need to balance things up. " That means a specific economy. Farmers need the support of the moment they say how we want to see a longer course. [[The president calls.]] I'll get to that in my second speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u41	Madam President. First, I'd like to thank the apocalyptic for his inputs and Ministers for the answers, as well as for many of them. Councilmen who have spoken up. I know the matter well as a shepherd's blood, and I'm going to establish two things that I think are essential to achieving that production balance. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir came in earlier. - A lot of people are gonna be surprised when I do. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter will agree on agriculture, but that's how life is now. First, how important it is to look forward to the agreement that is being done today and to build on it the changes that will benefit you; to speed up a review to the next 4 years, and to stop subsiding the payment of a next year's payout goal for a year's next year's round. Second, the commercial environment of the product species, the whole number of deportations around the country, needs to be viewed. We must look for practical suggestions in this article. We need to look to the future, that this article can cope with the changes in the environment of today's agriculture. That means changing customs and the raw meat business. I think if we can achieve the economy we're facing in this sector, we'll get our weapons. However, it is not just a matter of stirring up the support of the State. We need to look all the way, and then we need to consider also competitive laws in this country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u42	Madam President. I think it is clear that the problem of sheep farmers will not be attributed to the domestic agreement that went into effect at the beginning of the year. The problem is deeper than that. But it seems to me that it should be clear to everyone that the current livestock contract, when it comes to sheep's production, is defective. He is, in effect, more than a mere "gather " of" sheep's prayers. " The main points are that quality management payments are taking over and becoming more important, which are, in fact, the source of production. That is not what farmers need or we need as a community. I have slowly decided that to solve the problem, at least In some respects, it is necessary to reinculcate some sort of quota system in sheep's production, bone payment. I also believe that significant economic management must take place, both in crops and in carnivores, along with much new and more intensive products development. I think it is necessary for us to discuss the implementation of adaptation agreements with sheep farmers so that farmers can make a breakthrough in other areas, not necessarily in traditional agriculture, but the adaptable agreements turn that they can start other economic activities on that planet. There are applications, both when it comes to using technology, but also when it comes to climate. Unfortunately, Madam President, I am no more won than the previous day to say the most remarkable things.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u43	Madam President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson for taking this initiative, as well as for the highest. A minister to participate in a discussion that is both timely and essential - not new ones, but we must continue in this discussion. It is a challenge to prepare the sheepfold and the peasant class in general for a long period of time rather than to impose on solutions that are even more conflicting among themselves and in the community. It should be a big deal to simplify a agricultural support system, to make it clear and understandable, not to straddle out - of - date systems that keep sheep's flocks in limbo, practically hostage. Recent treatment has become very difficult, almost impossible to get into the article in some cases. The project should be to bring farmers closer to the market, to bring the article closer to the market; to offer and demand, to promote initiatives. It is my conviction that farmers want to participate in the inevitable process of community responsibility and support scientific methodology. Part of the major project is to deal with climate, the environment; to deal with emissions of substantial greenhouse gases in conventional agriculture. New creation is a term that is used late and early, and evolution too. There we need to be more demanding than what we can expect to be able to do in agriculture. Consider, for example, the farmers who have worked hard and have obtained evidence of the organic breeding of lamb. It works in such a way that the products are rarely found and take only a little of that initiative. These products are just the most valuable, small wands that can grow and thrive. Madam President. We need to care for farmers who raise sheep in the most suitable territory in the country. If you are a farmer, you will not be able to offer such an important profession.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u44	V.E.G. President. Last year, the slaughter price for sheep fell by 29%. If I remember just 10 percent before that. In other words, in the past there was a silent agreement, or silent consultation, with the MAH of that reduction to farmers. But lamb fleas cost the same cost from the store today as they did last year. Why do I ask, "Where did this 29% go?" Did they go to the MAH's? Did they run to merchants? Or did these two groups split up the 29%? In itself, this operation was taken out of massive supply problems, claiming to be slaughterers. It was 1,100 tons, the grandest supply. This year, at the highest response. Minister to me this morning, it's just over 700 tons. But what did people do when that situation became evident last year? A marketing campaign? No, it wasn't done. Once more, farmers were left to sit down with black sticks. Sheep farmers are not the problem. It's the products, it's the market issue that's the problem. We compliment ourselves on selling 200 tons to America every year to a chain of $12,000 shops, it's 16 kilos on the mouth, that's just one body. This is why we're paying a lot of money. This is crazy. We're naturally supposed to sell this meat in a restaurant. There are 30,000 restaurants, if I remember correctly, in New York alone. We're struggling to sell 200 tons. Icelanders have never known how to sell anything. It's about time. And a market campaign for lamb that has been moved to China and America - it would be better here at the General House. Here at the cafeteria, there is rarely lamb meat, nor is there a board of directors' cafeterias. What do we need to be sending men to China and America to sell meat if we can sell it to the cafeteria at home? Home market's the best. Why don't we go to a real market? Why do we allow farmers to assume that they are second or third - rate citizens? [[The president calls.]] Farmers are not the problem. The products and markets are the problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u45	A respectable president. Thanks to all who will thank you for the connection between this discussion. I'm going to allow myself to be relatively optimistic on behalf of Icelandic agriculture. Icelandic agriculture and sheep farms have a unique position. We have a small use of antibiotics, which are negligible in sheep fields. We don't have much livestock. For example, 120 important diseases are registered internationally, of which 19 are in this country. Granted, when it comes to importing, our trunk is sensitive to these diseases. It also makes it possible for us to produce perfect transparency. We know where Icelandic agricultural products come from. We certainly support like other countries. Support here is smaller than, for example, In Switzerland and Norway, when a proportion of government funds, countries that are not abnormal to compare Iceland with, are relatively hardy countries. I think agriculture has a lot of opportunity for climates. There are opportunities to further link support to environmental and climate issues. There's been a lot of progress here. This has been very effective in importing, using a third of the less inputs in a variety of productions, so there are a number of good air signs. However, change in support is essential. The situation needs to be faced with. I've heard nothing but farmers are willing to do it. Now I hear a minister declare his will, too. If the will is there, I am optimistic about the fact that we can protect and go on a quest for sheep and Icelandic agriculture in general. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u46	Madam President. I can say with what. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson stone that there may be a need for Iceland to improve in the market. It is possible to say that both water products sold abroad can be sold at a much higher price and on agriculture. Nevertheless, I find it very strange that farmers are always spoken of as the only public - market class in the country who can't work in a public market without having some kind of large production support system. In fact, I have more faith in farmers than I do. I think it's time for Icelanders in general to have more faith in the quality of our fine agricultural products and to stop having political fingers in the business of farmers. A proper approach may be to have a clean foundation of support that ensures certain safety to farmers who are truly well - established and have enough equipment and then leave the market to do the rest. Then there are similar guarantees, as do other countries around us who provide farmers. It is really the exact method, and it is used in many parts of the world. It's a strategy that doesn't dominate large companies. This is a procedure that directly creates a situation where the best possible price is made, especially in view of the new decision that we are moving fresh meat from other countries. The result, of course, is that in one way or another, Icelandic farmers will have to compete on this market anyway.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u47	Madam President. Here we discuss the situation of sheep farmers and the government agreement on the conditions of sheep breeding. What is the greatest problem of sheep farmers? In a nutshell, the cost of production is too high. Much of the price the consumers pay for products, not to their own farmers, but to the middle. The product is too expensive in comparison with the competitive products, and these products grow in competition. The Department of Professional Road had a report on the environment of the product sector. The Ministry made a deal with the KPMG recruitment field, after the tender tenders, to make an assessment of the products and the value of sheep products. The purpose of this analysis was to set out the cost of slaughter, sale and distribution of sheep products so that there can be ways that can result in a reduction of slaughter costs and more efficiency in this article for farmers and consumers. This report is now available on the Ministry Web, published in June. The report contains a number of tips that focus on economic management. It is clear that there is a wide range of management within the manufacturer's product range. Now, for example. As reported in the news, plans for unity between nuclear food and Norwegian are being developed. That's what's happening. There's something else I'd like to mention here, but there's certain claims for the slaughterhouses. Why don't we just take off the demands of homework so that farmers can sell from farms directly? Can't you find some middle ground there? We have the best and cleanest products in the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u48	Madam President. I would very much like to agree with those who have discussed the opportunities in agriculture. I don't think they're a lot of things. What an incredible opportunity for our powerful, productive agricultural product, especially in the field of sheep! But then we must also be afraid to face the problem and, as I was able to do so, remove the patch from the wound that is present. We must have the courage to bring in measures that are long - term solutions, not always short - term solutions that do nothing but warm people for a time, but then they always stand again and again, regularly every autumn, in front of the problem. They don't serve sheep, they don't serve consumers or politicians over their heads. Therefore, we need to make a special note of the first action that contributes to the balance of sheep's production. We also need to make sure that our resolve rate is reduced. We need to disable the manufacturing impulse, that's what we need to do. We need to examine specific measures to meet the debt of farmers and young farmers. We need to meet the farmers who want to quit in this article. We need to use a specific period of time in the near future to help farmers take the steps they choose to take. Farmers need to be more free from the system than they are today. They're muleed inside a system I don't feel they're doing well. It needs to be checked on the product network, and I never say it too often that I don't think it serves farmers well, let alone consumers. Of course, we need to go to carbon balance and other environmental projects. We also need to expand research, raise funds for innovations, and e.g. Applying a powerful source of food that could be seen united from the fund, increase the value of seafood and the product fund of agriculture. The opportunities and possibilities are incredible ahead, and we should take advantage of them. We are to use a great deal of well - being and solidarity that can be achieved during a council if we are simply afraid to face the root causes of the problem. It must be handled differently than short-term solutions as used for e.g. Set up a table in the last year, where the members of the three strategists, now in the government, would like to return with an export duty to be placed on the shoulders of the Icelandic consumers. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I warn of such instant solutions and urge ministers to make permanent solutions for sheep farmers and consumers. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u49	President wants even less trouble. The members of Congress are to respect speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u50	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. For taking this discussion here at the council and reviewing the position of sheep farmers, Kristján Þór Júlíusson. I welcome the attitude that appeared at the highest level. Minister, maybe I'll go over it later, but I want to thank you. Parliamentaries who participated in the discussion. Clearly, a body of Congress is very well aware of the challenges we face regarding the status of sheep farmers. With regard to the questions I left at the beginning of the discussion, it is fully understood that this is, in accordance with the Convention's Review Directive, at the stage of the discussion. But I think, in view of the discussion here, it's a plan to speed it up. I think a minister is well beyond the ideas and the vision. This discussion was presented by members of Parliament. I can agree with very many of the things presented -- looking at these realistic eyes, reaching balance in production, it's very important. We need to examine the entire chain of values, and the solution is likely to attract the value at every point in this chain. I think the discussion made it very clear that there is a lack, and especially in the end of the chain. Still, we stress here that Iceland and I are expected to lead as early as possible in the production of wholesome products, truly of which the lamb is. We should always defend that particular position. If you don't, I thank you very much for this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u51	A respectable president. There have been many members of Parliament. Many good ideas, many good names that must be included in the work that is now being done in contracts between farmers and the State. I remind you that the contract that is being revised has a time to 2026. Hv. paritaprevir Here Hjaltason Gautiç delivered an inspired speech and traced it back to centuries, thanking the sheep for all the good things that happened in the past - just - and presenting the benefits of the lead. It would have led the flock and the shepherd forward. Today, however, we use GPS. There are other ways. It has to do with it as a whale. paritaprevir " The project is enabling the article to cope with a new era, " said Ingi Pétursson. The problem isn't lead or GPS or anything. The problem is even the problem. in 1983 the consumption of lamb has been reduced from 48 pounds [48 kg] to less than 20 pounds [20 kg]. It is not the headshipist's fault or credit. There are only changes in society that we must enable the industry to cope, and we need to help them deal with it. Today, there are many challenges in the heavens for this article as other areas of agriculture. Tolar, import of raw meat, trouble in the structure pattern, multiple factors. Everything comes into the work we have here in some way. I can't admit, though, what happened at one time. A senator's problem is that we're strengthening the position of the Department of Agriculture. What a misunderstanding it is to be packing everything into one small drawer called international! That's wrong. - That's not true. We are strengthening the level of the Ministry to cope with the many exciting challenges we face in agriculture. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u52	Madam President. I'm going to direct a request to the highest level. A minister for risk-benefit concerns related to the import of the animal. Clearly, there is great dissatisfaction with the present arrangement and has been severely criticized, both because it costs time - consuming, and especially because the pets themselves are under great pressure, which has increased substantially in recent years to move into the country. The import of dogs increased e.g. very in 2016. 217 dogs of 67 species were transferred from 33 countries and 49 were present. But the important thing is that we watch the pets ourselves, humans, and then what developments have taken place in all technology, so I don't talk about veterinarians. It is long time for me to renew the risk assessment, apart from what we've been pointing out, that there are natural numbers of pet owners in the belief that the existing system of government is a complete mismanagement of time. Of course, it is urgent and important to maintain the good standing that Iceland and I have had in mind for animal diseases. This does not mean, however, that we cannot realistically look at the situation and face what has happened with the development of a veterinarian, surveillance, and so forth. What will our neighbors do? For a long time, there were very strict rules in Britain; six months of isolation, as we had in the years before. Then, in the year 2000, those requirements were removed and a new arrangement was created in 2012. Today, the demands for isolation of pets in Britain are dropped and can be transported there by dogs to meet the requirement for 21 days before vaccination. The European Union has also had these issues on the move, but in a totally different way from Iceland. It's important to look to Australia and New Zealand, who are like Iceland. For the import of the animal into Australia, animals are classified according to their country. If the animal comes from New Zealand, Norfolk Island or Korea, it doesn't have to go in isolation. From all other countries, the animal must suffer, not a four - week isolation period, not six months but ten days of isolation, although with different severe conditions for which rabies is common in that land of the animal. In New Zealand, the rules are very similar to those in Australia. There may be exceptions from animals that come directly from Australia; otherwise, there are ten days of isolation. That's what I'm pointing to at the highest. Minister to speed up the risk assessment or to try to contribute to the risk assessment, which I know is in progress at the Ministry, and I came to and set out at my time, be complete, and hope to hear the answers to the questions I have raised. [[The president calls.]] How does work lead to a new risk assessment? How do the Minister intends to introduce a so-called pet pool? [[The president calls.]] Will Ministers consider viewing other countries as to role models of new pet import rules? [[The president calls.]] It is urgent that we examine and take firm hold of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u53	President wishes to go for it. Senators hold the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u54	A respectable president. Hv. A senator turned to me three questions. First, how to work for the import-risk assessment in dogs and cats. It is to say that it is. The work is done by Dr. Preben Willeberg, former chief of the generals of Denmark. This work started late last year, and when it started, it was hoping that a report on these subjects would be completed in April this year. At work, however, it has been found that the project is far more extensive than originally expected. Icelandic experts have submitted data to help Dr. Willeberg in his work. The last meeting on these subjects was held in mid - September. I have stressed that this work will be completed as soon as possible. I understand that there is now hope for a year's report and no later than the end of the year. At work, there is special emphasis on making changes because of aid dogs, such as blind dogs. It is a rich will to meet those who are aided by such dogs, but it is important to all who consider these machines, experts, that the ability to perform tasks and ensure the best possible source of livestock disease or disease with living animals that can spread to our vulnerable farms. It is hoped that appropriate adjustments can be made, that when risk factors, they will be better able to meet those in need. Second, ask for the pet pass. Letters for pets are documents that confirm that pets have received all the necessary vaccinations in order to travel with them in the European Union. Implementation of this structure would require that all pets not be isolated from their pets that would be moved to Iceland as long as they had needed medical and cultural proof of health. The conclusion of the risk assessment in progress should be used as a basis for further evaluation of these so - called pet letters as far as I understand. Third, ask yourself, " Do I look to other countries where animals receive ten - day isolation with different rigid conditions based on where they come from? ' It is possible first that Iceland has been in the lead of countries that have established a strict animal import policy to prevent animal import as much as possible from reaching the country from contaminating animal diseases. At work as a subject, i.e. The risk assessment should include: look to the actions and experiences of other countries and to the solutions they have taken in defense of animal diseases. The possibility of shortening the duration of the anxiotherapy should be considered in some cases, including taking into account the new method of testing that has been developed. In that sense, it is normal to look at even To other countries, such as Australia and New Zealand. In his discourses and in his queries, one inquirer spoke. However, I would like to stress that while awaiting the conclusion of the risk assessment, it is not time for us to reason on the matter deeper than here, and I expect the inquirer to show that understanding. As soon as work is finished, it is probably a matter of reviewing the matter and discussing it further as well as the possible actions that could follow up on the report under this risk assessment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u55	V.E.G. President. Following this discussion of Icelandic agriculture, its importance, its purity, and the unique situation we have here in an island country that can protect us from disease, and so on, I just hope we don't move dogs and cats free between countries. I'd like to encourage all of us to step gently to the earth in these matters. It's probably some of the things that have worked well in other countries and how things work out there, but we can also fully base our own experience, the results of our experts, and our scholars who have good skills and warnings about opening too much on import, whether on raw meat or on pets. Let's just move on to what we have. Let's protect what's good for us. Let's get some Icelandic agriculture, but don't take unnecessary risks.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u56	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir for this inquiry and the highest. Minister for the answers. I find this case extremely interesting, and I asked for the highest level of inquiry. Minister to answer May 2nd. where I asked if it would be possible to use the European passport for pets. Then, as now, it was shown in reply to the highest degree. Minister before the door had a risk assessment. A minister said that this project was bigger and more important than originally planned. I'd like to encourage the highest. A minister to keep a tight grip on it so that we can get the results and get this report. At the same time as I agree that we should, of course, remember that the health and security of our livestock have been suggested by many to the point that our rules as they are today are fully established and that there are gaps between them in this matter. I'm just saying, I can't wait to get this report in my hands and to see if there's any reason to make some changes in the arrangement as it is right now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u57	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A minister for the answers and show understanding that this inquiry is difficult to fully establish until the risk assessment is established. Still, I am surprised at how badly the results have been made in risk assessment, a job started last year. But okay. I hope to the highest. Ministers keep people on the subject. Sometimes it is as if people came here and imagined that there was no progress in veterinary development, drugs, and such. We're not talking about importing raw meat, we're talking about importing in animals, where there's a big improvement in the type of vaccinations, let alone other protection. The diseases most feared by humans have become part of the standard vaccinations of dogs and cats in other countries or it is very easy to identify them by means of testing at or before arrival. This arrangement can be changed in the interest of our animals, in the interest of animal protection, as well as in the interests of the humans who want our animals with us, no matter where we live, that they follow us. No scientific decision was made regarding the decision to take the isolation from six months to three and from three to four. So there was no basis for anything more than a simple political decision. I would also like to draw out that there is a large waiting list for space in the Cape Reservation Station, the only operating room in the country. That's a lot of information. How will we respond? It is time for us to face the change in reality. The term has been developed in science, whether you like it or not, and it can no longer be used for old - fashioned isolation purposes in the import of our pets. We can review the rules without being threatened by animal, human, or environmental security. That's for damn sure.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u58	A respectable president. Thank you for the discussions we've done here. I would like to at the end of this discussion that the decisions that may be made about the changes in the arrangement today must be based on work, suggestions, the advice of the most skilled scientists with the help of those who know well. In this case, it is the former head of the animal doctor Danmerk who I think will approach the subject with discretion and neutrality of the scientist. I don't believe in anything else. There is plenty of knowledge here in this country to benefit from the results that may come out of this country. I trust that the rule on this subject will be made so that it can support the emphasis we all want to maintain, i.e. protecting the country from new diseases in animals I rely on special advice on that subject. I don't know the countless masks there are. That's what our experts are giving us advice, and I trust them completely in time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u59	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for coming to this query time. We've had quite a few discussions about fish farming in this hall as well as in the community over the past few weeks and months just end up with hope. We all know that fishing is a major industry in Iceland today and is growing. It is extremely important to a certain part of the country, especially the West. Westerners have lost hope and have seen that a industry that works well for the west and for the west can be developed. In September 2016 a report was submitted. The committee was appointed by the then prime minister on how to strengthen the West, i.e. how to increase the number of jobs, people, and support the sector and structure in which the West would like to go. One of the suggestions the committee proposed was that the center of fish farming be located in the west. They didn't say where, but they have to be careful in their own elections. But naturally, the Westerners said that they were building a fish farm and that the work, the center, would normally be located in the district, i.e. ... ontheVestuscrowk. Following a conference at the Ministry, the one sitting at that time, very short, the Ministry's officials and the director of the Oceanographic Institute, were interviewed. The decision was made to build the functions of a fish - breeding organization at Isafjörður. It was announced by a press release on October 6, 2016, that this would be done from 2018 onward, i.e. that this operation should begin at the beginning of 2018. Now that we have entered October 2018, this operation has not begun in the west. The idea was, of course, that the expert, the head of the fish farm, would be located there, then we would load on the outside. Of course, it is completely in accordance with government declarations probably as far back as we can remember, i.e. to strengthen the country's settlement, to move jobs to the country, and to increase the number of jobs in the country. This was to create a new area and to further what is closer to the industry. So I must ask the highest. For the first two questions to begin with, in view of the year's end: Has a minister changed the decision that the standard director of fish farming at the Marine Research Institute and specialists will be located in Iceland from the year 2018 onward, as noted in an announcement on October 6, 2016, from the then Marine and Agriculture Minister? If so, what evidence is there to change that decision? If the decision has not been changed, what will delay the movement of the operation to Ísafjörður? I don't know that there is a mortgage or something that keeps a man from settling down on the ice.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u60	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry, and he knows that he is, like the one standing here, a very interested person in the development and maintenance of the country. On that point, I don't think there's a big difference, though. A senator moved to a district. There's another subject. [[Up front.]] - The regional ultimatum, yes. I'd like to first say that as a minister, I've made no decision to change this subject, so it isn't. But I must draw attention to him. There is no law on the operation of the OCU. 112/2015, the headliner for the Marine Research Institute, the research and counseling centre of the seas and lakes. According to 2 mg. Section 3. Their law is responsible for the management, management and management of the Agency's work as well as for its management plans. The director also employs other staff. For example, on October 12, 2017, an ocean research agency was written to ask the Office for information on the decision presented here. The Ministry has received an answer from the Oceanographic Institute. In that answer, there is a difference. to welcome the Minister's willingness to promote the work station at Isafjörður. However, it is not good to move the status of the stage managers of fish farming and fishing on Icefjörður because of the fact that Iceland is and will have a wide variety of fish farms all over the country. In Iceland, only one part of the fish farm, is introduced into the process and is now making major changes. At the same time, fishing and fish breeding areas were created in a new institution, the Oceanographic Institute, the research and counseling centre of the marine and water, which led to the integration of the old Marine Research Agency and the Fishing Agency. That institution began on July 1, 2016. There had previously been no such area and the new area was funded by the Agency by changing priorities. The letter shows that no new funds were made because of these changes and that other workers in the area are in Reykjavík and in Grindavik. Then there is an important milestone in a Icelandic fish farm that has begun because of marine farming, as well as the growing of land on salmon and pink. It is important that the stage management is close to its employees and management because of the shape and development of the area and at the same time because of the work on fish farming policies in the country and the development of studies in this article. The location at Isafjord is therefore not particularly suitable for this job. In this regard it is also appropriate to point out that the director is responsible for the management, management and management of the Agency's work programme for a minister and that he/she makes a programme for it. In addition, I say the director employs other staff, as I said before. These are the responses of the Agency that have full independence in their jobs by law. The minister is not involved in the employee service or any other such procedure. I stress in my answer that I have made no prior decision, but the director is legally responsible for the work of his agency. I've talked to the director of the Oceanographic Institute that I think it's very important that the Agency's fish farm will be trusted in Iceland. I think that's the most suitable place to go and share that opinion with you. To build a part of the State on Fishing, a senator would do so in order to build a part of the State. I'd like to mention here that last year's Merition Institute has increased its activities in Iceland. This has increased from five to seven positions. I don't know if and how we're gonna be going to do it, like what we're gonna do. In his speech, a senator mentioned how to load other jobs outside the work at Isafjordur. It all depends on what budget we make for a Veterans Research Institute. I'll tell you by the end that there's quite some serious problems about the Agency's financing because it's been a custom for many of the past few years to finance it much from the AVS Fund. That is the situation and the answer to that question. A senator offered.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u61	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A sea chief minister for his answers here, but as happy as I was with him in the past week, I am not as pleased with his answers now. I can't understand the answers any other than the decision that this will not be done in the year 2016, i.e. that this situation will not be located in Iceland as it was then decided, in view of the fact that the Agency itself does not. [[Top of the board: the director.]] The director. In this context, it is possible to mention that during the terms 19993/4,2007, 200 jobs were moved from the institutions and companies of the Department of Transport to the country. It would be interesting to know how many of them are still out in the country today. I thought it would be good if there were 10 of them. [[The president calls.]] Of course, the tendency is, and we know that those in charge of the state's institutions first reveal the most distant personnel. [[The president calls.]] They want managers and middle managers in their next office. It is a political decision to change it, and it will be taken, not by the director of the Cape, but by the minister of the sea in this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u62	Mr. President. I emphasize the independence of institutions, especially research institutions and institutions, as a marine research organization is for our community. It is very dangerous, if every time a fishing minister is going to intervene in the policy and management of the Agency. According to this, I'd like to underscore my opinion that fishing status should be strengthened, whether in a research institution such as Merro, or through other university institutions. Similarly, fishing is to be maintained on the West, especially in southern western weather where it is the most important thing. What matters most to the West is that this government is trying to see things in an overall context, and I am particularly focusing on a transport program. We are running out of the animal tunnel, but we can't afford to finish the petals when the road through the Daguell has not arrived. In the large context, how we are going to expand our Vests and expand our ministry and outdoor activities, including those of others. Monitoring for employment, whether in the field of fish farming or in the fishing field.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u63	A respectable president. I have to say, hearing the tone of a speech is a tremendous disappointment. Minister. Thus, the ideal institution is that its rule is not natural; it is subject to the minister. The minister shapes the policies of the language categories that are under his direction. The minister decided to build up the fish farm in Isafjörður. It was a political decision to do so even. in accordance with a report on how to strengthen the Vests. Some official, no matter what his name may be, cannot make any other choice. He is required only to obey what is commanded. It's not like this thing is overexploiting a Meritional Research Institute. There is talk of building a growing, relatively new department at a place where most activity is being done in salmon farms today. Of course, all jobs can be said to be better off in Reykjavík, since there is much more to it than anything else. That's what it says about every job in the state. Is this the reason not to build up abroad that there may be more jobs that will happen later somewhere else? It's totally ridiculous. I'm not going to believe that the minister sitting here is going to let the officials tell him what to do in this matter. Is the minister really going to sit by and let this pass and say, "I have nothing to say about it? Because he has everything to say about it. The minister has everything to say about these activities. If there were a board of directors in this company, if this were a Landsnet, something like that, for example, we'd take it for them. But it's up to the Minister. I'm going to hope, especially on behalf of the Westerners who have been waiting for this and called for a minister to have his knees follow his abdomen and make sure that the decision was made and he says he hasn't turned back, i.e. that these activities will be located in the Council of Iceland in 2018.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u64	A respectable president. I'm sorry that a former minister has been unable to bend the director any better than he claims he could have. There's some reason, Mr. Honorable President that the heads of state have a legal role. I don't know what it is. Councilmen intend to do so if individual ministers are to take part in the day - to - day business of the institutions and start working in the board. If we are going to take this matter, there will be more to answer than just this. [[Up front.]] Sure, let's take that up, but I call them by the way men are going to handle other similar things. If we are to be consistent in this regard, we simply need to change the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u65	It's all under law.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u66	It's under law, a respectable president. As I had a chance to tell you before about Edro Law, according to 2 mg. 3. g., the director is responsible for the management and management of the Agency as he specified in the answer I received from him. Is it really true that the director does not have the authority to hire and fire employees? [[Up front.]] He has all authority to do so. Our emphasis may be on building control of fish farming.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u67	Political decision and dare.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u68	Sometimes a very easy, respectable president, as here called out of the hall, is saying that all he needs was political courage and courage. Why, then, do some stewards think of resorting to actions that do not go hand in hand with the law and then becoming involved in oppressive lawsuits and problems through the implementation of such measures? How can it be said that former Ministers do not fulfill the situation? Some resistance has been there. [[Up front.]] I mean, it's the law that the director has that makes this other Excellency want the highest. The former minister failed to reach his completion. There's nothing more complicated than that. [[The president calls.]] The minister must submit to the fact that he did not have the power to accomplish his will.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u69	I'm full of shit.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u70	Mr. President. Two reports have been published, one from 2010 to the then secretary of finance, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon's son, and the other is a report recently submitted to the Ministry of Education and on alcohol ads. Both reports make it clear that it is directed to the government to review the alcohol - advertising legislation because the present system does not reflect the real world, modern times, the media, the contemporary media, all the things we face, and then is drawn out by other nations. The 2010 report is strongly requested by the local Minister to allow alcohol advertisements with significant restrictions, such as The French have done it, and I'll come in later. The National Intelligence Committee suggests that publication of such advertisements will be allowed within the framework of the international commitment of Iceland. It also points out that this ban can no longer serve its purpose, since alcohol advertisements appear in foreign media, either through international audio and imaging media, foreign sites, social media, or foreign magazines. Everyone knows how to stand in Eymundsson next to Icelandic Glamour and foreign Glamour, and in that foreign countries are allowed alcohol advertisements, not in Icelandic. We have to start facing what it's like. Are we going to increase alcohol and drug abuse using that kind of advertisement? I don't believe in that if we're gonna protect ourselves and set clear rules. In Sweden alcohol can be advertised with up to 15% strengths if more than the content and format of the advertisements indicate this. Finland has allowed alcohol advertisements with strengths up to 22% with more restrictions. In Denmark alcohol advertisements are authorized, but they also depend on very strict limits on topic and format. In 1991 the French were the first to establish laws that allow drinking advertisements. Then there is quite some experience in the law. There is no room for advertising on young people, and TV and theaters are not to be advertised. The French have tried to assess the impact of the rules, and research shows that people's consumption was not altered by the law. However, the image changed alcohol because alcohol advertisements advertised brands and promoted trade competition rather than encourage increased consumption. We know that national manufacturers are in a very difficult position about advertising their products. They often complain that they have few or no ways to point to the wonderful product of the Icelandic product, be it beer or beer. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Manufacturers depend on limits. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister: Is she willing to take advantage of the change in legislation in that area so that we are approaching a little more than today? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u71	A respectable president. I thank the captain for this excellent request that allows us to discuss the whole alcohol situation and, of course, the particular media position as well, but the client chooses to link these matters together, i.e. Connect the particular media status to alcohol advertisements. I'd like to state that in the report forethought and scouring. A senator turned up and came out recently, in August of this year, the report of a committee appointed by the Ministry of Education, brought my attention to its conclusions, on the contrary. A senator mentioned, opposed allowing alcohol ads. This surprised me because the report itself contains some detail about alcohol advertisements and cannot be seen, and it is specifically stated that a greater proportion of the committees thought that the administration should be reviewed. I don't know what it would be like for the Commission to conclude that a minister's decision is different, but more part of the committee. I agree with what. A senator says that there is good reason to review this advertisement. There are a number of reasons for this. The prohibition stated in Article 20. Although alcohol is somewhat explicit, it offers a variety of styles, so to speak. Advertisers know it, even name whole restaurants by Icelandic manufacturing products, and when alcoholics or producers start to support various events. All of these are indirect advertisements. I think that there are far better sources of advertising than in this indirect way, so that when advertising is advertised, it is more beneficial to consider what is being said. On the other hand, I am not quite prepared to adopt these issues as a matter of salvation for the private media in a competitive position at the State. I don't think financial problems and problems of particular media are because they can't advertise alcohol. I'm not even sure it will help the private media so much, of course, something, of course, to get in advertising revenues of this product. The problem of the media is much more important, and most of all, in my view, the competitiveness of the media's personal media with regard to the state. I think it's very important to look at it. In fact, I'm not convinced that it would be enough to handle the problem by means of a variety of isolated measures. I think the problem lies primarily in the administration of the state to media, or the media, because there are many channels to be run by the TV. I think it's important to look at it a lot more. I agree with that, too. A senator needs to be viewed as a competitive position by the Icelandic manufacturer. But most of all, I think this case needs to be looked at, i.e. Alcohol advertising, based on consumer views, is entitled to it, and it is for the benefit of consumers to know the products that are available. I think it's a good idea to cancel the alcohol advert on that basis. I believe, however, that in view of the State's exclusive rights, the alcoholic must also be examined. It always comes up again and again to the exclusive right of the state in these matters, both in radio and in alcohol traffic. I think there should be a priority in this... to cancel the state's exclusive sales on alcohol. In this way it could be met with this consumer's motive, which I mentioned without allowing extensive alcohol advertisements because by means of a private agency, the opportunity to sell alcohol is open to both producers and sellers to approach their clients directly and more systematically than it is now done by the indirect advertisements we know today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u72	V.E.G. President. Here we go. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir repeatedly encourages us to be modern - day and to face facts. The fact is, this is where we are trying to cope with powerful prevention. The fact is, we are fighting the increased consumption of alcohol and drugs by young people. The fact is, increasing bioavailability and exhibiting will encourage higher consumption. It's a fact, and it tells us experts in the field of prowess and antidrug treatments, to increase bioavailability and to increase exhibiting, and to increase consumption. There's a direct connection between them. I hope that the words of those who work with young people and children and those who work for prevention, whether it's an agent of children, a home, a school, a surgeon, or anyone else. There must be a way to run private media here without advertising booze.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u73	Mr. President. Here we are drinking ads. I want to approach the project, like what happened. paritaprevir This is what Þórunn, the Egilsdóttir of Elil, did before, out of public health. Alcohol is not like any other consumer product or market product, and dozens of reports from the World Health Organization agree with the presentation, as well as with the opinion of most people if not every health - care professional in Iceland. So I encourage the Minister to step gently to the ground in it. The surrender of other people or the surrender of the alleged needs of the market should not be an excuse for the foolishness of others.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u74	Mr. President. I want to thank you for the discussion. I think the difference in the situation is interesting. I don't think there's much room difference between private media. I agree with that with the highest. Minister of Justice to tell you that what represents the private media for cleaning is how much VR is at a commercial market. I think there's something to discuss in that context. However, it is worthy to discuss how we approach the requirement that a legal product be advertised. I would like to remind you that during this council and the last, and the last, changes were made in the so - called alcohol - called alcohol laws, where much work was put in order to create knots that alcohol advertisements did not focus on children and that their precautious values were always in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u75	A respectable president. I want to thank you for the conversation that I think is very timely. Thank you, both of you, foreman. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, and the highest. Minister for the answers. I'm interested in wondering that although we have a prohibition on advertising legal products, such as alcohol, I think it is quite clear based on the stories and reports and reports that there has been a considerable amount of alcohol advertisements, despite the excellent prohibition. I was just googling and I saw, like, a... a discussion about Egil's Golden Convention, a golf tournament, and just watching popular shows, whether on the Internet, on television, on schapchat, or on other communications media, alcohol often appears. Then you might ask: Is such a prohibition against the demands we make in our modern society with all the means of communication that we have?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u76	Mr. President. I would like to express my joy with a minister's answers, although I fully appreciate that there are some questions that she needs to make when she brings up her case. It also makes clear to the government members of the left - green and forward groups who helped to overcome any change when it comes to things that are not surprising. I share in a sense a minister's viewpoint on the State Radio, that's the biggest show on the media advertising market. I also share a view that consumers have greater interests when it comes to advertising and not only Icelandic producers but also Icelandic consumers. I'd like to remind you that on March 1, 1989, the beer was allowed. Since 1991, research & analysis has been done according to routine tests on alcohol and drug abuse in Icelandic youths. We have come from serving most of our consumption in 1991 in the least of those places today. It tells us that despite the increase in market offers, as with the appearance of beer in 1989, the prophylaxis is returning. What I encourage you to do is face the situation in a drinking market. It is simply not modern, and it does not meet the requirements that we can make a question about such activities. Be realistic and face it. We can do other things, such as allowing the advertisements with significant restrictions, which have given a good share in other nations. That's what we're supposed to look at. I encourage the Minister to apply himself in the case. I can comfort the highest. Minister by, of course, will arrive here soon, which includes the removal of state isolation at a liquor store in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-15-19.u77	A respectable president. I want to make a special statement because I put it to the point that there was some kind of shun in connection with the Prom Pronunciation, though it is in the order of 20. Alcohol allows a particular type of alcohol advertisement, including alcohol. the use of a firm name in certain cases as well as strength and other products which can be advertised can be used. So there is little question about breaking the alcoholic law on drinking ads, though the cases may arise from time to time when they are tried to handle them. One down. A senator noted earlier that the prevention was important and that advertising and consumption are linked. In itself, I can totally agree with that. I think it's unfair to say that advertising has no effect because people would not advertise unless they believe advertising has an impact. I do not know, however, whether it will have the effect of getting new consumers to the table or simply changing the pattern of consumption of already consumed. There may be a number of conflicting studies about this and no reason to hang in it. We know smoking on so - called water vapors. It's some kind of woe I don't know how to describe and I've never been advertised but it's become the standard practice among young people in Iceland today. I think there's a reason to worry about that. This happened without a specific announcement of the tools and tools. I would also like to mention that it is good to remember that advertising abroad, in Europe, is very limited. They have very strict conditions, and I'm sure they'll consider whether there are any guidelines we could adopt. Above all, though, I am interested in the removal of the government's private dealer for alcohol so that a private agency can take over the sale and thus launch alcohol into his own hands, which they would likely do in a much more direct way than by advertising in newspapers or on television. [[The president calls.]]
