ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u1	Borist has a letter from Aslagan Sigurbjörnsdóttir Bearsd that she can't attend next week. So today, Wednesday, October 10th, takes place at the General Assembly as a deputy for her 1st, on the National Socialist Party list of the Smokers. n., Albert Guðmundsson. He has previously taken his place at the General Assembly and is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u2	Borist has received a letter from a health minister asking for every request to give a written answer to a covering query. 79, for the treatment home in Krysavík, and for the threshing floor. 85 of the medicine, Naloxon; of the two of Sara, Elísa, the daughter of Þórðardóttir. A letter has also been received from the minister of foreign affairs asking for every request to provide a written answer to a covering query. 64, of the EU energy package, Community monitoring agencies and the EEA Convention, from Óli Björn Kárason.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u3	Mr. President. This morning, at a joint meeting of the welfare committee and the employment committee, the situation in a labour market was discussed with a number of people, who are severely treating people. It's been around too long, we know it, and unfortunately it seems to be a constant situation. We had a number of good guests reviewing these matters, social subsidies, and halls for practical use, employee rent, and bad equipment for many people in unsolved, poor rent - ups. It was the main line for all the guests who came before the committees that it was important to coordinate action and to tighten penalties and penalties for those who were actually workers in the labour market. These foreign workers are particularly sensitive. More often than not, they do not know their rights, nor do they have the authority to fight for their rights to their superior. The Minister of Social Affairs has appointed a group of men to recommend this material, to correct it. I hope that group yields good suggestions. We can't get up on these things. Clearly, the labor movement has been fighting this for a long time, and there are many suggestions in this direction regarding the labour market. The lawgiver needs to get in there right away. For example, consider the fact that the top of a chain of business responsibilities is to cover the entire labour market, the whole party. Necessary workforce management and hard-developed legislation must be maintained. The labour market and the hard - necked box against those who violate the people, both in the case of pay failure and the offer of uninhabitable housing at high prices. The landmark - lawgiver has been dealing with it for quite a long time - and hard - hitting his staff for a reason. There is also the lack of funds for the surveillance agencies we have, such as the workforce and the workforce, as well as for the police and RSK. I believe people are being stolen when people with their jobs don't get paid under collective contracts. They are just stealing from people in the form of the workforce of these people. There's got to be some punishment for those who do it all the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u4	A respectable president. Last night's talk made me mistake when I was reading out of my memo where I had put two s's when I was going to talk about the experts in the South. I accidentally told the SS for the South experts. I feel very sorry, and if I had some amenities at that moment, which was very serious, it did not exist. But the reaction was not clear. Piranians got up here and began implicated in the storm forces of the Third Reich. When they talk about me in this room, it's like a farmer whistles at an obedient skunk when the hour and the core in this case and most often the State Radio picks up what I misspoken myself last night and starts comparing me to murdering German dogs. I have to say, it's heavier than tears to carry that kind of thing. It was not quoted in these media when Pia Kjærsgaard arrived here this summer, representing the Danish council at the 100th anniversary meeting of the General Assembly at the Parliament's Festival. Then one of the Piranha quoted when he objected to her arrival that she had the same opinion as Adolf Hitler, so she would probably object, she had the same opinion as Adolf Hitler. I think it's under all the caves. The same people refer to the princes of Western nations who are elected by the people and like them to Mussolini and this news - name Adolf Hitler. Then they have every kind of flyer in a town that's gonna evict you. They're the people who stand in this hall in a hurry, lie to a man, have said I was a thief, stole money from the council - and they don't have to pay no account. Then they have fliers in a town that'll take the mollusks out of the media and send you over to the pantherbook and elsewhere. I just don't think it's acceptable for the council that they're spoken of as members of the SS. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u5	Mr. President. Yesterday, by the laws adopted by the Council, there was a serious crisis that faced entire settlements west of the coast. Of course, it was unthinkable that events would be taken into consideration. I think that this is where the council was only dealing with some of the problems associated with the decision-making committee on environmental and resource matters. We need to take a closer look at what led to that situation and the basis for that decision. It is my opinion that the problem lies in all legislation, the assessment of environmental impact, licences, organizational matters, the unclear of the legislation, the espionage and lawgiver giving overexpansive power to the management board to make important decisions, the core decisions on resource use and infrastructure in this country. We need to pay more attention. We need to note that the administration arrangement itself is vague and even paradox. Mr. President. The organisations involved are to form a total agreement on the interpretation of issues of environmental impact analysis. The Senate needs to examine further. That's all there is to it. There's a lot of improvement here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u6	Mr. President. The toast, the home of people with developmental impairment, is almost bankrupt. In Cathedral, 40 people are now served, but the home has been without agreement with the local authorities since the end of 2014 in Mosfellsville. Mosfellstown pays for an out-of-date and invalid contract, but the chasa has repeatedly requested a new pay-off contract in the country, as well as an up-to-date SIS assessment. Legally, disabled persons are to be guaranteed government benefits and services and are responsible for the services of disabled persons and for paying the cost. A new agreement with the Cathedral has not been made, and the chalatu has gone on to the level of self - resources and reserve that it is almost up and its home to run out. Interestingly, payment from an equation fund to Mosfellstown is insured. However, the service contract paid by Mosfellstown and that has been invalid for four years has not been followed by financial development or pay development in the country. I'm concerned that there seems to be no surveillance on the budget given by the state and on the grounds of legal projects, here on the topic of disabled persons. In my opinion, monitoring should lead both to treaties and to the fact that funding is being given to the issues involved. Mr. President. I'd also like to be allowed to make up the publicity of a medical matter in Kopavogi. Year after year, the town authorities in Kópavogur have requested funds for new nurses, who have a contract there, as well as an increase in the number of calendars. Kopavogstown signed a contract with the Ministry of Health for the construction of a nursing home in 2016. The situation is completely stationary, but the local authorities have declared themselves ready to take over the project, with about 60 people waiting for space. In that case, more than 140 individuals are waiting for day - to - day care. [[The president calls.]] It is one of the best resources to meet older ones in order to maintain their skills and vigor. I wonder that considering Kopavogsville's immediate intention to do so, there is no answer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u7	Mr. President. This week, the Group of Congress has been meeting with the labor movement. One thing I would like to make a talk about was an inextricable property in the community. First, 1% of the population owns more pure property than 80% of the Icelanders. That's about 2,000 families each owns about 300 million. K. To a clean property. Now let's just shrink the group and consider the richest 0.1% of the population of some 200 families in clean property. Every family there has over 1,000 million. K. To a clean estate, which is over 1 billion. About 5% of the population has nearly as much soil as the other 95%. 5% verse 95%. Second, nearly half of all clean property developed in 2016 to the richest 10% of the population. More than 11% of the new wealth produced in 2011,2016 came to the richest 1% of the population. Third, ten, just ten, are the most important individuals in the country within a third of the total amount of money in Icelandic society. Fourth, Iceland, according to a new report from Oxfam, is the longest in all the northern countries when it comes to fighting inequality. This is a report published last year. Mr. President. It is clear that there are two countries in Iceland. This trend is dangerous, unfair, and leads to less economic growth. Increasing equations are not only a matter of righteousness but also good economics.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u8	Mr. President. The severity of the parts of climate is faced by an iron - and - stone report on climate. It shows that every year 2.5% of the world's production to take action on climate operations until 2035 if the average temperature on earth is to rise by more than 1.5 ° C. Of course, this is a serious matter. I'm glad we're here in Iceland taking things seriously. With a financial program for 2019,2023, there is a radical change in the budget we intend to protect in climate activities. Our climate plan is very expensive. At the same time, it is clear that as the wind goes forth, we will, according to this report, have to increase rather than slow down. That is the reality. Although we may feel that the budget is high enough to be spent in climate surgery, I think it's a good idea to put that amount in perspective. The cost of responding to climate change is about as great as the world's military spending costs. That's a lot of thought to me. We're supposed to know about this in all the discussion, about all the funds that have to be spent on climate operations, that the money exists. It would have a tremendous impact on the entire inhabited earth if we were to transfer this money from military spending to climate. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u9	A respectable president. All indications indicate that a long term of good health is over. Now all signs of it are on the rise. The economy is about to slow down, the tourism is facing a lot of problems, and it is said to be the least overrated in the public discussion that has taken place on recent travel. This is also seen in reports on business management problems, collections and what we now see in the last great weakness of the crown. She's had about 10%, relatively quietly, on her right month to her major business change. This, of course, brings to mind a question when we are here at the turning point to remember that ten years have passed since the collapse: What have we learned? True, much has been learned. Homes have acted on much greater responsibilities, have been more stewards, less debt than they had ten years ago, and so have most of the local companies who have been more careful about the door to joy now than ever before. But look into this room and wonder what we have learned here. What have we changed? What was the greatest problem we had in the past decade ago, and it was identified as one of the main causes of our suffering? Among other things, little unstable currency and its cost for the public and businesses of the country were identified. It was identified as an irresponsible government on the part of the government that, like so many times before, stretched out the government's expenses at the same time that the economy was in this area at home. As you look back over the past few years, the exact same thing has happened. Expenditures have been overexploited at the age of expansion and actually aimed for some form of Iceland resources in this government's financial program. Nothing has been done with the crown's basic problem. There has been no change in the money policy, how we are going to deal with this instability of coin or the growth associated with it. There is no other point. [[The president calls.]] We can't point out the Secret Bank, we can't point out anyone other than ourselves. It is our responsibility to deal with this problem, and it is sad to see that it has not been done.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u10	Mr. President. The TV show Aggravated the people of the United States would linger in the harshness of an Icelandic labour market. The law of paying people at a job market far below the minimum wage is a fact in Iceland, but it seems that one thing is most against a foreign labour force that we can most thank for the much profit we've had in the past few years. Another sign of this abuse is overworking employees for a number of things, such as housing, food, necessary tools, and tools for work, or driving. An act of order that prevents such behavior must be made without delay. In the law, we have many examples of repairs we break. To pay taxes, the wrongdoer must reimburse double the amount at which he was betrayed to pay in the first place. For competitive violations, a fine of 10% of the company's well-being must be paid. A new personal protection law states that there is one of the highest levels of fines known in Icelandic law, or a hundred thousand. to 2.4 billion. in the most serious fractures. These are clear examples of wood laws that will give real relief if rules are violated. But there is no such thing when it is broken against staff. Then, at most, people pay the difference to the employee but pay no fines. Even tomorrow, the same people can meet with a new social security number and continue. Dear senators. The ball's with us. Yesterday, we truly showed that we can do things when we have the will. Let's do some action. Let's do this together. Let's seriously stop this vile thing with the relics.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u11	Mr. President. I'd like to start by cheering off the Generals yesterday with regard to the fish fire on the Westland, so that the settlements are in a fixed constant state when it comes to them. It's the right beginning of everything. It may be a short period of time, but in the weeks ahead, the fish fire bill will be submitted, and we will discuss it in the long run. What I really want to talk about is a large context of things. We were invited to our meeting yesterday on the pro board of representatives of the Food Agency, the EEA and the Organization. Somehow, when you approach the representatives of such institutions, you see how much trouble they have with this. Yesterday's discovery was made clear that representatives of the Organization have doubts about the process. It becomes evident when you ask how we measure up compared to Europe that we are in a completely different place in that process. All charges and delays due to our lawsuits are far more difficult than in the general European environment, which we often want to compare with. It's been two years since there was a big problem with the Marketing Authorisation for Theist Arts Act 1. During a two - week period, she became very upset and carried out at the Backside, where there were tens of billions of people. It will not take two years to face a similar situation. Yesterday the commission was recognized as quite similar. Thus, I believe it is necessary to revise the processes we use, such as the assessment of environmental impacts. There is a great need to revise such processes, even in the electricity system of our country, the transport system. [[The president calls.]] It is also appropriate to examine the nature of the decision committees and how they are performed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u12	A respectable president. Just beyond the corner here in East Street, the workplace that was upset by government abuse almost a year ago. Of course, I'm talking about the newspaper The hour. What I'm holding here is completely illegal stuff. There's been a restraining order. This council has not responded for a year. Last night we showed and proved that there are several emergency meetings that can be arranged to violate the law in order to keep the workplace from being upset. We can do something similar in this matter, and perhaps we should have done it before Christmas last year. But we didn't. And I think we all know why. We all know it. We'll see it right here on the cover of the magazine. But we can get rid of this black spot. We can do this by changing the law immediately, not waiting, not waiting and putting it on a committee over and over again, but simply doing it as we did yesterday, meeting at some meetings, and throwing it through. We could even do it tonight. It wouldn't be a problem, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u13	V.E.G. President. I'm here to discuss government budget and budget development. A financial committee is now busy welcoming guests and reviewing reviews on the budget bill. We had a meeting with a business venture now earlier today, and it does, in fact, say the same thing. so that there can be little shock to the level of income proposals, and it would be bad for you to buckle up at the same time as planned in a budget bill for 2019. Such suggestions on the development of government expenditures and not far away can be found in other references and were prominent in the reviews of financial and financial policies. Funding bill 2019, it is estimated that the total budget will be increased by 55 billion, an initial cost of 67 billion. Frame - set expenses have increased by more than 105 billion or by 17.5% in real value. There, the most important topic groups in the Ministry have taken the most important steps. There the rise in the subject of the elderly is more than 37 billion, the most during the 2016 conversion. Some 19 billion are due to the disability and language of disabled persons, 15 billion for health care outside hospitals, and less than 11 billion years. Because of nursing and rehabilitation services, and also nearly 11 billion for hospital service. Of these 105 billion, a total of 93 billion go to compromises of well - being. If we just look at systematic growth in these areas, this trend will continue. Today, we are considering the transport program, where we see the tremendous need for money in the coming years to meet the needs and needs for regular maintenance and new projects. This development tells us that it is absolutely necessary and unavoidable that we will be reevaluating expenses in all areas of state success and the scope of analysis capacity and the follow-up for practical and practical means of money to the level of value. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u14	Mr. President. Icelandic society develops and changes. In recent years a number of immigrants, refugees, and foreign labor workers in Iceland have become virtually a revolution. At that time, the number of foreign - stock citizens in the United States has increased greatly and have been added to that group in recent years between 700 and 800 people. According to Economics figures, there were average immigrants at 32,500 in 2017, i.e. 16.5% of all active substances. The latest issue of Tendar, a national tax president's newspaper, reported that in the United States, the number of taxes paid in the United States increased by nearly 8,000 between 2016 and 2017, by 27.9%. At the same time, the number of Icelandic citizens paying taxes here was increased by less than 1,200. A total of over 45,000 foreign citizens paid taxes in Iceland last year, which meant that they were 15.1% of all the individuals enrolled in a tax base that year. The year before, they were 12.2%. All of this shows that the composition of the people who live and work in Iceland at any given time has changed completely. To this country, there has been a great stream of people who have made the Icelandic community richer and have contributed to the development and development of the country. Mr. President. Sadly, we have neglected our obligation to welcome all these people and to introduce them to their rights and responsibilities, but especially to inform us about our community, principal organizations, and government systems. The discussion of the last days shows beyond any doubt that, in addition to this neglect, there is a direct misuse of status and ignorance that brings reproach on all of us. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. We must take these matters to heart - and immediately. And it will not be enough to appoint a working group.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u15	A respectable president. It's kind of reluctant and in wonder that I'm coming up here to show the members of Congress that at the Generals' Web site is a false story. Is it not a very serious issue that is not true in the Generals'web? I've been up in this chair before, pointing out that there were wrong reports on the Generals web, but that was not corrected. The report is still uncut, that there is only one member of the Council of the Northland welfare committee. There were two of us; Steinunn Þóra's Árnadóttir was with me on that committee. But the fact that there was only one member of the council is clearly stated on the II Parliament. The fact that there is only one hotel in Nuuk also appears clearly on the General Assembly. It also says that I was the only one who went before the meeting, but I also did. Why are you being wrong? If you look at information on the committee scene, you will find the truth. It clearly states: The Norwegian Health Committee, two. Is this because I'm pointing out that there is an excessive amount of money being made in international committee work? We're supposed to check everything out. There is talk of limited money when it comes to older citizens and desperate individuals, which is limited to government funds. At the same time, there is information in human life that the head of the UN, Norwegian, was destroyed 54 million. K. in travel. In 529 of the last 668 days, he was traveling. Think of the pollution. We are talking about the United Nations Environment Agency. If we don't look at things like this, I'm not saying we're so bad at it, we're making public money. We are under obligation to examine them. What am I supposed to do? [[The president calls.]] Shall I send them a request that everything is correctly installed on the Generals' website? [[The president calls.]] How can I get it fixed on the Generals web, where I'm trying to minimize what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u16	Mr. President. Yesterday at the council, an emergency response to the disaster that the Sunnauts of the West were experiencing was due to the fact that too many eggs were in one basket. It is always dangerous when so much of society depends on a few companies and very limited jobs. It's good that these are being built up, but they have to be more. When you look at the reasons for secular work in many parts of the country, and actually in the whole country, it's as monotonous as you can see, there are mainly two explanations I can find. On the one hand, it is the tendency for everyone to jump onto the bus when a new idea seems to be possible, but it is a tendency that I expect to wash out of the national soul as we grow and when our dealings with the world become more complex. We're still a young people. The other explanation is systematic. It's very difficult for people to do new things in Iceland. Those who want to start business, especially in the innovation sector, have to go through absurd complications and have the most amazing problems to achieve success. It's, for example. It's very expensive to start a business in Iceland. I hope the ideas of fixing it, to a financial and business committee, are going to be successful, but it has to be fixed. It's also hard to get financial. There are relatively few investors. There are a small proportion of companies registered in the stock market. It is a requirement for interest from investors who are also very high. Contestation funds are far too small, and they are very often weak. In Iceland for research and development, only 2.16% of GDP was made in 2016. Companys know all these and other problems. It is our job at the Council to eliminate as many of these problems as possible, because in communities where great things can be made possible. But we must stop making it difficult for ourselves. We need to minimize this social risk. We have to fix the law. [[The president calls.]] But if we do well, in a few years, we will be able to do little for other nations ever again as a stepping - stone for the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u17	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with what. Senators who are concerned about people who work here come from abroad and work for an Icelandic company but are violated. We have received reports that foreign workers have broken down in many places. Foreign citizens are probably about 40 pounds [40 m] away. a man in Iceland today and about 20% of the labour market. It tells us that there is no unemployment in Iceland. Iceland, or us, is doing well. The treatment of some of the people who come to work here is said to be most shameful on the part of a few companies, as is recent news that we have read. If they take to themselves who have. A synthetic contractor is one of the forms that individual companies have used to reduce costs. However, the duties of the contractor are the same as those of the hired man. The courts are prepped. The company controls the individual's hours of work, controls who does the job, where, and how. However, the artificial tool is designed to form a pension fund, insurance, health rights, birthworm, and holiday, to name something. Governments and rural areas are made up of huge income in the form of taxes. Just a year ago, this campaign was fought by future General elections and made left greens a talk of about 80 billion in the tax system of the black economy. They're lying there. The subsidies and infrastructure of society are not supported by financial contributions, and yet such sums remain uncontaminated as we break the rights of employees. I challenge the government and the General to take that matter firmly and protect healthy competition in a labour market, healthy competition for the market of companies, protect the rights of employees, and protect Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u18	V.E.G. President. I recommend the Parliamentary arrangement for transport programmes. One is the policy-relevant transport programme for 20191⁄2333 and the other is a plan for the next five years, 2019/2023, thereby part of and within the framework of the policy plan. The work preparation started after a year's convention and was consulted with professional life and rural society. Meetings were held in all parts of the country and transport conventions last spring. The Council of Transport was the minister of the proposal for a transport strategy of 2019-52033 as well as a proposal for a 2019-2023 operation. The proposals presented here are in accordance with government policies, the emphasis of the Minister, other public plans, the results of the transport work programme, the results of available research and the results of extensive consultation. The environmental assessment of the programme combined with the proposal also impacted policy development. Transporter plans are now modified from previous schedules, which are the first step in making the material shorter and more specific that has been appreciated. For the first time, it is in accordance with the expected budgetary strategy of 20191⁄223 approved at the General Assembly. Spring. Therefore, the treatment plan is no longer an inexpensive request, a transport plan is a practical tool for implementing projects that will be possible over the years, and I am here to refer to the five-year plan. This provides an important precautionary approach for the next five years. For the next 15 years, a total of 604 billion dollars will be expected. You can double the amount of money available to the road system by curing certain monuments, such as bridges and tunnels. That's one of the ways we're looking at to ensure extra money on the road system. There we look to our role models, to form in the Faeroe Islands, but also to Norway, which has established a new organization, called Nye Veer, and there are many lessons we can learn from our neighbors, especially the Homblers, in a tunnel. There is now a working group to offer proposals for new funding initiatives for extracurricular roads. It is assumed that he will submit proposals in January and the winter Parliamentary Act is a transportation agency for financing that will be discussed by the Senate and a decision later in the winter. The General Assembly agreed to engage in new financing routes will be able to speed up important road and landing projects in the strategy. It now has three projects that depend on the specific funding requirements and is specifically mentioned in the text of a transport program. There are Daffy Ways, Lowland Road, and tunnels through Mount Try, in the Valley of Moriscos, and a double Svellow tunnel. This program suggests that most of the state's enterprise, i.e. 531 billion of these 604, cost for road transport. During the first period of the 2019-2023 schedule, it is estimated that 183.6 billion will be provided for road transport, about 205.6 billion between 2024-52028 and 215.6 billion from 2029 52033. In the financial program, costs for road transport are increased by less than 6 billion each year for the first three years, i.e. 2019◯2021. It is suggested that 10 billion will be spent annually in the maintenance of the road system for the first five years. Thereafter, there will be an increase of 2% annually throughout the 15 year period. Also, since the past few years, contributions to public transportation, maintenance of airports, and harbor funds are increasing. The second two periods are increasing in terms of the growth of transport contributions by 1.5% of national production, which, if we look back in time, is consistent with the long-term average contribution to this category. In review, more than one third of each year's budget has been raised to 17.7 billion per year. of 23.5 billion on the budget bill. But there has been a great lack of financial support in the maintenance of the road system over the past few years. That's where we're turning to a better place. Two years ago, contributions to maintenance were less than 6 billion, which, according to Vega's estimate, has led to a cumulative problem considered in the year up to 60 billion dollars. The government put over 8 billion in maintenance because of the 2018 budget, as agreed by the General Assembly, and as shown in the 2018 budget. In addition, the government decided to add 4 billion for the state of the road system as it did for last spring to respond to the greatest need for maintenance. In other words, we have 12 billion this year, which we provide for the greater improvement, maintenance, and fixation, in order to ensure the best traffic security around the country. The schedule presented here involves an important future and a goal to the next 15 years. The key to the effectiveness of the programme is traffic security. Good transport is a fundamental prerequisite for a powerful business life and a powerful society. For people and businesses, financial and safe transportation ensures access to markets, public service, and recreation. Transports connect settlements and parts of the country. In a technologically developed society where the services are often a high - tech service, it is important that access to people is good wherever they live. Transport is also a complex and costly subject. The importance of transportation for modern society will be late overrated. All urban transport is needed to strengthen our country's settlements and, at the same time, to compete. The construction of the urban and safe transportation in the region is primarily a rural procedure. Associations can also be associated with negative effects on quality of life and the environment. As such, e.g. Road accidents take all too much toll, and traffic impacts on the environment are often severe and negative. The strategy expects the network to be built up outside all highland roads at the end of the period, i.e. During this 15 - year period, we see for ourselves the completion of the foundation of which we have been building. So the emphasis is on the southern part of the West. Passage on the southwest corner, along the way in, and out of the capital area, has grown to the most. We see that the end of this 15 - year period will be the biggest roads, i.e. Westland Road, Southland Road, and the Slandjanes Way brought up separate road policies to the citynes, the Westland Road, east to Hellu, the Southland Road, and the doubled Smokey Way into the air station. This is what I consider enormously important to ensure traffic security on these roads, since we have seen the most serious accidents and have seen in recent years. As I mentioned earlier, we're also finishing our foundation, and there's the focus on the Westland. At the end of this period, there will be a circle of the West Coast through animal tunnels and the built - up roads over the Dufindin Bridge, with a built - up link to the Valley of Bildur. With this new passage through the tunnel, we'll be less than 20 miles [27 km] away. There will also be a new built - up road around the south of the West as far as Patrekfjord. In this period of time, the important target of the long-term transport programme, i.e., will be met by the improvement of the strategy in southern Western Europe and its construction to the urban area, which is in the years and years to come. to link all settlements with over 100 inhabitants with a bound discrepancies. We also want to look to other parts of the country to build a new way through Axi, which shortens the way between the Hornfjords and Eglish positions more than 70 miles [70 km]. The plan assumes that there will be a tunnel attack at Sufjörður after the construction of animal tunnels and adjacent road systems. It is an active group that is going over Sólveig's affairs and preparing a decision for the project, including ... aboutthepass of the tunnel. The result will be at the end of the year. A transport program can argue that the third primary objective is to continue building and attach a folding barrier to traffic distances, although they do not meet the carrier resistance and roadline requirements. During the first period, you will have some 130 miles [ 130 km] of roads tied in. This is important because driving through a road that is bound to wear out is a quality of life for children who go to school, although driving a small road. It also emphasizes the importance of setting up extra funds to build high - speed traffic lines, which require improving weight tolerance, corrosion of roads, and designing them with related security requirements. But there are other weaknesses in our road system. For example, 686, about 39 of them on the highways of the highways of the United States have bridges. One of the most important projects during the first and second periods is a new bridge over the Hornfield River and adjacent roads that lead to a decrease of about 12 miles [11 km] in the ring road. There will be many older, larger bridges, such as the bridge of Elfút, the bridge of the glacier in the mountains, the bridge over the Lagar River, both bridges over the river Shiver in the county, and the bridge of the Berhubal Bay east of the cemetery. A new road through a third period will shorten the ring road by four miles and reduce the number of single bridges on the road by six o'clock. It is then assumed that during this first five - year period, a single - edge bridge on the ring road is reduced to about nine. The growth of traffic has led to increased demand for winter services, both as a result of the enlargement of work parishes and school areas, but notably the travel sector. So the annual increase in budget is set in about 700 million. K. for the first five years. At the end of this study, donations increase by 2% annually. This year we began to cope with this problem by greatly increasing our winter service and by adding 700 million now for the first five years. In accordance with the government's policy declaration, you will be working to improve your chances of driving bicycles. There is also increasing emphasis on public transport, both in the capital area and on the national community. This is one of the main objectives of the plan. The Ministry is working on policy-making on how public transport will be the best place for the future, i.e. all over the country, and they come up with proposals that are available today for review. There are also recommendations for transport improvements in the capital area, including the construction of public transport systems. Among other things, the Grand Way is expected to be built in stocks, including the Garðar coast of Hafnarfjörður. We also have work to do, along with the Breedholt Road, the Kleppsmum Road road, and much more. In this context, it is proper to conclude that September 21. wrote secretary of transportation and rural administration, the one standing, and representatives of the local community in the capital area under a declaration of the structure of transportation to and throughout the capital area, including public transport. The discussion is started and based on the proposal that changes or further transport implementation will be provided on November 15 to be introduced to the General and Environment and Transport Committee. Then, the discussion of the Sunway will result in what this committee will do after November 15th. The transport program puts high priority on transport safety. Safety in Iceland is expected to be amongst the best in neighboring countries and not worse than in the five best. Special goals are set on such things. According to one estimate, traffic accidents and mismanagement are costing more than 50 billion annually. In fact, in recent years it has struck down the calamity side, where death accidents and serious accidents have not been reduced that we would have wanted to see. Even accidents are caused by an increase in traffic, especially by tourists who travel through the country in rental cars. The government has established a climate action program that aims to keep Iceland's commitments under the Paris Convention. There are many transport and energy exchange measures, but the transport programme will take into account the procedure. These include public transportation, both in the capital area as well as in all land, bicycle riding, and the use of new government transporters. In this regard, we can refer to a new Western island vector that becomes both an electrical cargo and a tvinfer. In other words, it can go only by electricity. The importance of economic growth and procreation is too late to be overrated. In view of this, policy has begun with the participation of all major air policy stakes, in fact, the first flight policy for Iceland. The work will review the working conditions of flight and public environment and will set up a policy aimed at supporting the activities and development of these important sectors. A transport plan is now expected to increase the amount of money available for the maintenance of airports and to be over 600 million each year. At least, but better if it's good enough. The committee at work is reviewing the flight system and looking for ways to secure it better. It aims to improve the management capacity of the country's flying systems. Among other things, the commission is to examine whether all international airports will be fired by Istavia. Alternatively, there may be ways to insert a reserve field tax, but this committee has been inspecting the Scottish way to ensure the objective of public transportation. The transport programme provides a priority for the maintenance of runways, the renewal of most advanced flying and communications equipment, and the renewal of air traffic and runway lights. [[The president calls.]] Finally, Mr. President, if I may slightly review the time, briefly through shipping: The pay to Refundation Fund has never been more and more than 1 billion each year for the next five years, i.e. 5 billion over the first five years. The estimated cost of construction at base base base ports between 2019 and 202023 is about 7.8 billion and out of base some 870 million. After the discussion for a second session, I suggest that these matters be held. ... andtowhat. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u19	Mr. President. It is inexplicable to see the switch of five - year programs into zones, north zone 3.8 billion, west zone 17.9 billion, southern I 8 billion - eastern zone 4.3 billion. It is, in fact, the lagoon, the Hornground River, Lake Stein, and Kotau, a delusion. It belongs in the south. One billion dollars remain. 3 billion, then, are being transferred to the highest district of the world. Minister, the southern region, according to the plan, gets 11.5 but actually gets 15. I'd like to ask a minister if he thinks it's acceptable and if he doesn't want to take into account the priorities of the Eastern Society who have a unanimous conclusion about construction. The plan has left everything else. I think it's at least... Shameful.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u20	A respectable president. First, I considered the main objective where traffic security is number one, two, three, and priorities are thus aimed at separating road policies in this area of the most serious accidents. It's useful to all the people of the country. A senator, including those living on the east and north, has to cross those areas. They're the most dangerous thing in all the road system. We'll watch Iceland as a unit and go where it belongs. A senator over the exchange of donations to individual areas, perhaps 20 years in return, might have returned to normal standards for the switch, perhaps even to the right. A senator is not merely taking traffic weights and traffic security or switching over the last 20 years but taking the length, the miles, and the number of traffic in individual areas. It's just that way, huh? A senator, that in this transport program, there are two huge main projects, traffic security to separate road policies in these areas where the weight of the accident is the largest, make complete decisions, no butts, finish jobs, and the other main goal is to complete the base of Western soil, where considerable funds go to the south of the West. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u21	Mr. President. I don't have a problem with the fact that a lot of the money gets into security, e.g. on the southwest corner, but I'm pointing out what the Easterns carry a sharp object from the table. The Helgi son of Valtýsson compiled poems of Eastern poets and called never forgotten an East country. I think this is where I think a book was published in the Southland called Always Forgot East. I think that a minister must also think of the Secret Service when he conducts his talk on safety and insecurity, living in closed feathers on winters with limited access to health services as well as security. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u22	A respectable president. I think we're gonna do what. A senator will soon agree that it would be very important to have much more money around the country and take action as soon as possible. This refers to putting a substantial amount of money, more than we have previously put in maintenance and construction for the first three years. The priority order there is the safety, such as the driving force. A senator has pointed out, and I discussed my first talk, separating road policy from the chapters that are simply the most serious of accidents and the most recent fatal accidents, while finishing the base on the West. It has the animal tunnel and roads linked to the animal soil. These roads cost 10 billion. That project might have been taken along when the discussion of a beast's tunnel was taken. We would like to go from one tunnel to another. But this project is not merely through animal tunnels, it's about 10 billion blocks away from the Earth's tunnel. [[The president calls.]] I might come into it better later today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u23	A respectable president. There are many assignments that must be carried out throughout the country, and everyone has a point. I just wanted to think about being with a minister here at the road maintenance cost. It has been published that there are about 60 billion regular maintenance needs. Recently, a legal committee received a memo on how road stress could possibly be reduced, e.g. by using two-big tyres on heavier cars, by entering seven tons of axlet instead of ten tons, which saves an 18-fold difference in stretch marks. By going down to seven tons, it is only 24% of the fragments compared to ten tons. These actions would, e.g. saves very much wear and reduces this cumulative maintenance need quite seriously. [[The president calls.]] I wanted to think about it with the highest. Minister what measures are to be found in this transport program in order to reduce the strain.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u24	A respectable president. It is true that it has been measured so in the past year or perhaps the last year that the accumulated problem has become closer or around 60 billion in the maintenance need of the system. This transport program is developing plans to build a safer, more broad road, with added weight - bearing resistance to existing traffic and then set up extra for maintenance to meet this behind - up expenses that are behind our backs. Hence, the decision was made to add 4 billion more to the 8 funded this year. I'm thinking, even though I can't measure it professionally at this point, the four billion have been quite successful. According to Vega, we will achieve this hole in putting 10 billion in the next five years. In turn, the ideas of reducing wearout may be interesting, but the process of transportation may be more involved in building and maintaining the ways we already have today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u25	A respectable president. There are various goals, e.g. on environmentally sustainable transport, in this transport program, infrastructure for electric bikes and bicycles, electricalisation rejection, and so on. I find the question obvious: Why not take road cuts when the cost of maintenance has gone from 5.4 billion to about 10 billion to 2019? It's said here that the cost is this. The weight of the traffic has grown tremendously, and large cars play a large part. You wonder if they really pay for the wear and tear of their power. Or are the smaller cars that are more likely to cut it off? The traffic of a heavier vehicle is 5◯13%, but each heavy car may count as 10,000 cars. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u26	A respectable president. It's interesting points like that. A senator here points to a small matter in a transport plan. As he pointed out, they also appear in the roadtype memorandum, which will no doubt be discussed at the moment. Environmental and Transport Committee. What I wanted to come on here is that, in the Vegas'opinion, maybe 758 billion would have worked to sustain it if it was maintained today by putting this increase in money this year, 12 billion, for maintenance and repair, and then from now on for the next 5 billion years, which is a 20% increase from the budget. At that time, the road itself has the capacity to do quite well what was believed to be abjectment in this town a year and a half ago. It will be interesting to see the food of the Roadmaker after one year in this regard. In fact, regarding transport, it is positive that in recent years coastal cruises have increased, with significant weight loss from the road system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u27	Mr. President. This is a lot of pressure we have here on and on the subject and may not have time for a brief decision to cover much. Still, I wanted to say that I am in many places or at least in several places here on the longer schedule, it is widely referred to as financing. A wide variety of ways to finance large projects in cooperation with private agents and in collecting road costs and in section 2,3.11 on the management procedures of road use are listed in Article 2. I think it's a bit remarkable, especially if you're looking at a statement at the highest level. For example, when he was in a position of government, a former secretary of transportation was in opposition. what to say to your former secretary of transportation, my dear. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, and he said, by permission of the President, in kitchen days. When it comes to saying, "If you want more money, pay more for a service I think most people would agree that the government should pay and that the tax and fuel paid for already. " [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The highest. A secretary of transportation explained to me what has changed since his words were said?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u28	A respectable president. It's very easy to explain why. Senator. First, we're going into transport energy exchanges in connection with the government's climate operations. In the present situation, diesel and fuel trucks pay 17, 18 billion taxes which flow directly to the roads. In 2030, if the operation succeeds, the number of cars will have been halved. In that case, the price will probably be nearly 7 billion. No one will accept having 7 billion on the road. That's why it's not just a matter of extra spells, okay? Senator. There is a question that users are increasingly paying for access to the road system any way they can then choose. This is a group of mine to investigate today as well as to see if we can finance extraordinary projects with such a cooperative, cooperative project to speed them up. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It would be a saving process in exactly the same way that the Whalehlönhjög tunnel model was. Can we do so more often?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u29	Thank you very much. The minister's answer, though, is that I would rather not see what basic changes have taken place in transportation since the fall of those words. But it's all right. I find it interesting that in his introduction, he spoke to the highest. Minister to ensure that the transport programme is fully funded and this would be a practical document. In fact, he reeked that it only applied for the first five years. I'll give myself that the other must be unrealistic and not provide the end of how to finance, as it is clear that the longer we plan is very much back. Of course, it is good to promise something that does not have to be done in the future. Finally, I would like to mention that in the latter part of the programme, at least one of the most important projects are ... tothe southwesthorn whereI think it's in accordance with the plan, it should be up to approximately Twenty-five percent of the budget where 60 percent of the population live. [[The president calls.]] I can't get this thing to come together.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u30	A respectable president. I don't know why. A senator has misunderstood what he read. A key point at the beginning is the separate road into and out of the capital area; there are roads through Hafnarfjördur; it is the road up to Kjalarnesi; it is the road in the Elfus. That's the next three years. During the next three years, there is considerable more money available on the road than we have ever done before. It's true that we only have a five-year financial plan, that's why it's funded for the next five years, that's a real plan. But it is also said that during the five years, i.e. 10 and 15 years from now, it will be determined that 1.5% of land production goes to transport, financed in this way, and viewed as a long term average back to time. It is not an abnormal standard, but, of course, it will become clear every year. It will be added one year each time we bring up a new financial program. However, this five - year strategy is practical, financed, and in accordance with financial plans for the next five years. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u31	A respectable president. I'm celebrating the grandest story ever. A minister where I believe we're getting closer from yesterday. He makes it a subject of the enormous importance of security and that it is a major part of the transport program. V.E.G. A minister says that a five - year transport program is a practical piece of money. What is put first is safe, safe, and safe. V.E.G. A minister speaks of the cost of accidents in the road system of about a billion dollars and should aim to reduce the number of accidents, since his leg has now been reduced. V.E.G. A minister does not want any butts and says that it must now be completed. Therefore, I would like to make a number of budgets for flying a transport program. It is true that there is now an increase in the amount of money being made for the flight, but that is far from enough. When we talk about airports, we'll be the best. Minister, to discuss it seriously. There is not enough funding to set up a reserve airport in the condition that they can oversee the flight to the country and travel through the Icelandic air space of about 25% of all traffic that crosses the North Atlantic.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u32	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for taking up a discussion about the flight because the time had grown too tight when I gave my speech so that I could not take it to the full. Maybe I'll do it later today. The main projects involved in the transport program are: Renewing of the separation layer at the Lofgorg State Airport, which I know is the driving force. A senator knows that it is time; new flight lights in Reykjavík, Akureyri; and in Eglsports; surface maintenance on runways and barns in Akureyri, Western Islands, Isafjordur, and Thors. That's how to bring it together. The person standing here agrees. A senator says that we need to put more money, especially in building on the international airports to make sure that they can use enough as reserve airports for Keflavík. Therefore, it is becoming more reasonable to see if it is possible for Istavia to run the entire international airport and whether it would be wise to return to the so - called backup airport price that would be placed either on airplanes or on seats. [[The president calls.]] Probably about eight million passengers with the Icelandic airlines are flying through here. [[The president calls.]] It doesn't take many crowns to raise the budget substantially, which would be the price of the second-hand airport. [[The president calls.]] Then we could what? A senator may have agreed that we were well along.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u33	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. We keep the airports as they are today, but the traffic has increased so much in recent years that the fact is, as we know, when events have occurred in the last 18◯24 months, up to 30 planes come in the same one and half hours to two hours in the morning and in the afternoon. When something comes up, there is no room in Akureyri and Egls, except for four planes at best, if they need to run away from Chefavík. Reykjavík is in the same weather area as Keflavík. If the weather prevents the landing, it's those two fields that take over the traffic. It is of utmost importance that money is spent, regardless of how to obtain it, on highways connected with runways. It's the cheapest way, where you can pick up and set up airplanes, and then fly barns. [[The president calls.]] I'm reminded of the pile of stones from a Caddy-Hall tunnel standing in the Pollia of Akureyri. [[The president calls.]] She could be very useful in a subcontinent under a flight barn in Akureyri.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u34	A respectable president. I want to come up here at the end and join in with what. No matter how important it is for us to take up these projects, however we find the way to finance them. Both of us need to make sure that we have this situation because it highlights safety and makes it much better, but it will also ensure the competitiveness given to Iceland's airlines to set up this business model to fly here with contact workers. But it should be inexpensive because of the need for less fuel, planes could land here. It has also been discussed - The Þorgeir of Pálsson has made it clear, so no one has objected that there are two international airports needed here on the southwest corner simply to have sufficient security. From then on, of course, we have Egls and Akureyri. There is a chance to build up and put in tow trucks at first that could draw airplanes in order to get them organized better under circumstances that can certainly arise, which we certainly hope will not happen. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But it is better to have the situation ready when that happens. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u35	A respectable president. Then we have a transport program, both short-term and long-term schedule, and we face the huge challenges we face in this field. In recent years, as in so many years, we have actually made this group of rock - mass, if you look to how few we are in a large country. But there is much to be done that will reflect that. in high incidence of accidents, the consequences of our completing important steps. In recent years, of course, things have rapidly improved, and the number of tourists in the country has increased, and accidents have increased accordingly. The most tragic roads in the country are roads around the capital area, the urban area, but most of the accidents are around a light - controlled street in Reykjavík. In recent years, they must consider how traffic has been controlled, so we need to act. It was to be expected at the highest. A minister played from the funds he has been assigned in a financial programme to five years of age that it would lead to disappointment. It is obvious to all who know well about the seminary that the projects are large, despite the added financial resources that the government has combined to set up in this important group of subjects, they have many jobs to do, knock on the door. No matter where the country comes from, it does not matter. I have heard a lot of people in Parliaments after a district week saying, "Yes, it may be accepted if there are perhaps 3.3 billion people involved in this project or 2.5 billion in this assignment in our territory. By the time I put this together, it was about 25 billion. That money is not entering a five - year transport program, it is clear. In the capital area, there may be significant criticism among the local people and the city councilman in the area of transportation, and I have heard it in the council of the capital area that it is now time to stand together. Thus, we face quite a stroke within the council, between districts, districts between council members, and on the contrary in the order of ordering these funds down. It's a concern that this transport program is quite rearbound, as it has just been, and I agree with it. It's going to miss the highest. Ministers that it was reasonable to address 1.5% of domestic product. Yes, it is possible in itself to create any set of criteria. Why not 2%? Why not 1.2%? In fact, in our economic environment, looking up for the next year and dating, there is nothing that makes us expect to be increased by 30 to 4.40% to road transport immediately in the sixth year. We have to face the reality of these matters, a respectable president, that does not mean that we're showing any illusions about the people of the land, things are urgent. When we returned 2016's transport plan, we got our back and our own lesson. So we just have to put our cards on the table the way they are. V.E.G. A secretary of transportation is not jealous of this situation, although he has gained a generous increase in the seminary and on top of the increase that had come from the time of the crisis. To this end, we must look to the committee when we start working on this document and deal with the huge work that lies ahead of us. I'm glad to hear it. A minister has agreed to comment on the need for other means to finance and speed up projects. Of course, this is the face of everyone. It doesn't matter what government would be in this country. A person can make dramatic statements and promises when he is in a smaller position or when he is in a campaign, but the fact is, in the final analysis. There could not be any government to make this a significant increase. Even if we doubled this 5.5 billion increase over the years, we would still be in grave trouble, even if we were to triple it, we would be in great trouble. Such are the sizes of the materials. In 1996, Halfland tunnels began to take place. I was reading a report in the October 1996 newspaper on whether people were going to drive the Half like this and whether people would agree with this project, the Haggard tunnel. 70% of the nation opposed. This is normal, uncertainty may call for such a reaction. It's our job in the politics to step up out of the pits, have a perspective and weigh things cold, setting priorities. I think it is obvious to all who have studied these matters that we cannot take the big steps necessary to be different from seeking new means of financing. It is no coincidence that nations around us are going to have some kind of currency in order to handle their major projects. Yet, today they have much more densely populated than we do. I think there are about three Icelanders living on a square mile [3 sq km], but the population of every square mile [15 square km] is in Norway, and there are 35 in Denmark for example. So the task is harder for us. In the past few weeks, several members of the Parliament, along with the experts we've been looking at in town, have concluded that a program for special funding for road construction in the next six years would lead to the implementation of a transport program for some 65 billion. We will introduce this plan, this idea, to members of the council, after the matter is entered, to see if there can be any discussion and agreement to take such a course. It is important that we finish work on the transport plan by the end of the year, for it takes effect of 2019 and the guide from the council is not finished unless this is in place. Such funding would have a major impact on the transport program. Based on our plans, this would mean that some 15 billion projects, for 15 billion, during the first part of a transport program would be released and set aside for other projects. This would also enable us to take bigger and better steps on important roads, such as from Keflavík Airport into Kapakika, at Hafnarfjordur, also east of Selephos. There, instead of going to what I've called buttocks, we'll make a two - folded road with three mixed corners. We're going to the Three Road Road, which is not on the agenda for the next 15 years, and then we can move out of the country. There are many projects and opportunities for this development, so that Axi could enter the first period, perhaps some of which could begin at the end of an animal tunnel. To the west, we could go to The Dollingshaft, which is an unbreakable part of the Animal Funeral, and it's really sad if we are going to make the most of it that is impregnable to us. Then this project would not be useful. This will be a discussion, a respectable president, in the weeks ahead. This suggestion shows that there is a narrow cut, even though the increase was intense. It's normal to have a good time. A secretary of transportation puts priority on what he is assigned, and as such, this plan is very realistic in the first five years, although I believe it is fully rearbound and in excess of expectations of the periods that follow.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u36	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son before his speech. He has a considerable knowledge of the seminaries, both because of his work at the council and as a minister, but also because I know that he has been interested in this group for many years. I have two comments or questions. I'd like to agree too with what. A senator says that it is important to do so. The Environment and Transport Committee will complete the project for the year in which the current transport programme expires at the end of this year. It is important that we have from something to play right next year. It is also true. A senator, as I went over in my case, is that there are many bolts in the air that the committee needs to be able to discuss. But, of course, this is a living document, and by the law, transport plans should be submitted at least Every three years or within three years of the council. Of course, a new five - year schedule may be updated if we have framed a new route of action. A senator entered. My first comment is to discuss that the plan is rearloaded and may not be practical, that is, during the first three years. We've got 23◯24 billion for construction and maintenance. We have decided to use 10 billion each year for the five years in the maintenance. This means that for the first three years, we have 13.5 billion new projects. The last two years of the five - year program, however, will go down to 8 billion. That's why I agree. A senator and his ideas on how we may be able to bring projects outside the transport plan and budget. Thus, for the second part, this 1.5%, a long - term average, is not unrealistic. [[The president calls.]] Then we will no longer have to protect the funds we spend today in building the Land Hospital, buying off the protective helicopter, and building a variety of buildings. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, I believe there will be room for further transportation after the first five years. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u37	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. A minister says that it will reach a stage in animal projects over the next five years. In fact, we won't have finished everything, that I think, around the hospital. There will continue to be a great struggle for some time. We too will build many nursing homes. The rest of our attention will be given to the country's construction of the health system there. There is no danger that there will be adequate work there. We also see that economic foundations are, so it is rather relaxing. This may not give us reason to have high expectations that the wealth of the state will increase substantially beyond what is normal. In recent years, we have had an abnormal situation. It's not a reference. Plans don't make funding. That's the simple answer. In spite of this fine increase, although we maintain 10 billion each year, we know that the amount of the road itself needs to be about 11◯12 billion so that we can work at the same time. As noted earlier, the Association of Industrials suggests that there are 60 billion in total maintenance needs. We have a tremendous effort to create in simple bridges, to name, just an enormous amount of effort, which is a major cause of accident in many places. We still have a tremendous amount of money left in every road and country roads and such, more permanent clothing on such roads. So there will be enough work, a respectable president, and I believe a 30% increase plus, even up to 40% per year six to ten is full of optimism. [[The president calls.]] I'm not exactly there.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u38	A respectable president. The other thing I'd like to mention were the Minister's ideas on ways of financing projects and taking projects that are on the current transport program and acting in a special way. I welcome such ideas. This is one of the things we've been discussing, the need for us to think outside the box and look for a way. The seismic project went well, i.e. That model. I suppose we could transfer it to more projects. I mentioned that the transport program is inevitable to look for, for example. In another way, there would be a distance, a project of some 50 to 440 billion. The doubleization of Hölfjörður is probably between 15 and 2020, probably nearly 20 billion. A new lowland road through the Valley of Micrdal through it is 5 billion. That's over 100 billion. Then there are a number of other assignments that could be looked at, of which there is a broad political reconciliation. [[The president calls.]] That's why I'm glad to hear it. A senator who is prepared to initiate this discussion during the council, try to find ways to do so. [[The president calls.]] That's why I mentioned that maybe we could double that money over the next seven, eight years in order to go faster on a project, and thus perhaps to 15, 16, 17 billion a year, instead of 13. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u39	A respectable president. Special funding is a tricky move. These are large and extensive projects at the highest level. A minister will discuss this. But we agree that the box needs to be taken into consideration. In fact, I believe that the 50 to 4,470 billion poolway is overcalculated. I've seen ideas of a new process. This can be done in stages, but it requires a great deal of preparation. Vault tunnel. The Norwegians built tunnels similar to the Hagland tunnel at the same time as the Haggard tunnel was built. Now there's 10,000-11,000 cars driving through a day, there's seven thousand and some cars in the Hagland tunnel. They have not even decided whether they will double the tunnel or build a bridge with it. So these assignments are not up to date. There is also a fundamental factor in the financing model that we set up to run round that already exists will pay. This can reduce the length rate considerably, as we calculated, 140 k. through the pay gate. [[The president calls.]] If we are going to make a full budget and then go into pay when it is completed after two, three years, then the project will be much more expensive, and the payoff will be much higher, as the case illustrates. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u40	A respectable president. I'm going to say something. A senator, who is well versed in transportation today, is sadly not easy to find more money in that lawsuit. That certainly is essential and is needed. That's why I wanted to ask him why. A senator, like I asked the highest. Minister of the past, about the savings we can also take on transportation. I would like to mention, as an example, the maintenance and violation of the roads may, in fact, be interpreted as a particular interest cost, if you transfer it to debt and loans, etc. One way to reduce this interest cost is to reduce the stress, e.g. by increasing the number of tyres on larger cars, by reducing air pressure even to lower or simply reducing the weight; in some way, limitations. This is even a question of several billion less stress and therefore less need to be maintained and the billions could be added to the more extensive development of transport projects we will discuss here. Despite any promises, small structure has been around the capital area. And when they are counted together, there is nothing low at all. But this savings - which would be relatively obvious, in view of the indications we have received from the roadmaking of more fragments of larger cars - would be counted very quickly to that amount in a very short time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u41	A respectable president. All ideas should be examined in this direction. Of course, there's another side of that coin, so to speak. Enlargement of shoulders - that is what it has been done, and human survival is trying to survive with the birth. If we're going to shrink the cars, we're going to need more trips. The move will also be more expensive to the population, so it must be met too. This is a tax from the country's settlement, from within the country. The demand for goods and services throughout the country and in the modern world is rapid and reliable. Of course, that guarantees a place to live. Good roads increase economic growth. An example of this is well - known, for example, in the United States; when they did their best in transportation, it had an enormous impact on economic growth in the country. Surely, especially if we have more practical means of growth, we can look to the future for a more economic growth. In addition, because time is reduced, it has to be more practical to move. It'll be safer because accidents drop. It was estimated that on these routes - on these main routes - except for all the extra routes I mentioned - accidents cost about 4 billion a year. I'm sure there's all the ideas and updates in this. I am open to it and ready to participate in such work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u42	A respectable president. Indeed, it is true, as it were. A senator says that this is a set cost in transport; there are more trips, etc. Several of these methods make the cost four times lower or even 18 times lower than the cost of wear and tear. I'm worried that these transports are not paying off already, i.e. that the cars do not pay for what they are already causing. As a result, this type of transport is already being strengthened by paying off all the parts of this weight - bearing vehicle. We'd be paying a lot less for the wear and we could also easily pay for extra travel compared to this difference, I'd think--if the difference is e.g. Eighteen times for the ax change.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u43	A respectable president. This is also true of bus cars, public transportation, buses. Perhaps the cheapest way to fly is to take as many of us as possible. No doubt, it can be calculated that significant combustion of a plane ticket would be relatively practical to reduce the pressures on the roads. What Does the Future Hold? I met a foreign specialist on these matters recently. He told me full feet, and I've only been looking into the matter, that within a few years, maybe five or seven years, people would have gone to a container transport with their lamps. We can imagine how this will affect our road system; if we are driving down the North Valley, and there's a drawing flying ahead of us. This is realistic. Then you can review the story of a picture of the New York coasts at the turn of 1900 C.E. - and ask: Where is the car in the picture? They looked at the same convention in 1913 and said: "Where are the horses in the picture? Only 13 years later did this revolution take place. [[The president calls.]] I think we're looking at an even faster trend now.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u44	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son before the speech. I agree with the senator that in the long term, I feel that this process of transportation is rather difficult to deal with. I'm sorry because of the urgent need for transportation. V.E.G. A minister said that in the future he was even thinking about some kind of road problem because of the changes in preservation caused by transport energy exchange, when more electrical vehicles are on the move. I also cut by the fact that he and his associates were developing an idea for a six-year plan, perhaps by a different approach than the secretary of his plan. Since they are in the government together, I wondered if it would have been good for them to have worked together on this plan and to bring up one plan, since both of these would have been revealed. Well, the plan might have been more possible than the one we see right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u45	A respectable president. As I told you earlier, the transport minister is conducting a transport program in line with what he has been assigned; that is the most natural issue. There's nothing more he can do. He is bound by the government budget approved by the council. There is much improvement in government planning that the method, however, should be introduced, that men are looking longer, and that they are considering their plans accordingly. In the past, it was more like weather forecasting or weather forecasting, even predicting a year before the next year and even more weather science as far away as it could go. We learned a valuable lesson in the provision of the 2016 transport program in the process of elections, the council. We should take that lesson into account. We are to make it a teaching. We should not be afraid to discuss new paths. I'm glad to hear it. A minister has opened up the need for special funding if we are to speed up the project; he has accepted it and has a particular job to do in order to examine individual projects. At the same time, we, some members of the Parliament, decided to sit down and review our vision of what would then be in our discussion with a transport program at the council. Is this something we're getting together about? If not, we'll just take the usual route. There's nothing wrong with saying that we're going to go a little slower on this and see if we're not going to have more time so that we can do bigger things. I believe - I've come to that opinion - that this is a very important project. And it can be started right next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u46	V.E.G. President. I agree that the need is urgent. We see tremendous changes and a growing number in traffic. There are about 2 million tourists a year, so there are plenty of foreigners on the roads of the country. They don't pay for transportation. There would be potential roads, so they would pay as well as others, that is one of the creditors. But it is clear that the need is urgent, and we are far behind what we need to be on transportation. Therefore, as the senator earlier said, we need to think outside the box and respond in that way. I realize that the frame the Minister is behind is in position and will be taken into account. [[The president calls.]] I thought the speech the senator gave me was interesting. I don't have any more questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u47	A respectable president. It's about the tourists. Last figures indicate that 2.3 billion can be expected. Visitors this year. So there's an increase, though not as huge as the one we've wrestled with in recent years. In fact, I think all too often forgotten that to develop workers at Keflavík airports, Isavia employees, have worked hard, tackled natural disasters every year, people in travel service are struggling to solve these issues. It's worked. The idea is that they will pay a bill that goes considerably higher, but those who often need to do their job, study, or other business to go through such a city's gate, as the bill was set up, 140 k. For the trip. A short period of time will be saved when the speed of travel is reduced by minutes; less fuel will be eliminated. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u48	Mr. President. Much is being taken here in this transport program. I'd like to discuss two things in the past, but that's the Smokey Way and then the importance of being guided by the most reasonable solutions. I'll go to the Smokey Lane first, then. Important improvements have been made in the Fitum chapter that it contains Leifs son of Erik. two years. In 2017, two telephone calls were made on Main Street and National Railroad, and recently Hafnarway was turned into the phone morning at Steak on Fitirs, which is a dangerous chapter. Earlier, at the middle of a blind hill, the Hafnarway came onto the Rhine Way, created a great danger, and unfortunately, in 2016, there was a fatal accident. These improvements have decreased the rate of this period and all risk decreases to the ring morning of the Rosaselstort section at Steak. Around the monotonous part of the Lonakoth of the Hagoshun Way and about 20,000 automobiles a day, the chapter is the largest in the country. V.E.G. A recent U.S. secretary of transportation said at the General Assembly that traffic security will be held in high esteem. This dangerous chapter cannot be excluded on the Smokey Way. With more and more tourists headed for a disaster on this road, the possibility of an accident is at risk. Already there is delays in the road during times of stress. So you ask yourself, " What will be the situation in 15 years? At last, when the decision is made to complete the double, as one puts it in a transport program. It is totally unacceptable, Mr. President, to postpone this urgent operation for 15 years. Safety and traffic pressures should be the exit points when setting priorities. The smoke track is at the top of a magazine. Mr. President. I'll submit some adjustments to the transport program set out here as far as the Smokey Way is concerned. It is about to take the double course from Linakoti in Washingague that Hafnarfjordur Fjord next year. The process will be combined with a double production in the Krysavík, from Krásvíkólk, which is in the transport program and will begin next year. To offer up all the work involves much economy and can be assumed to be a more favorable offer. Let us not forget that only going to the Krysuvíkfjords and Kaalsel Road do not solve the traffic weight and the neck of the bottle that is there, there are doubles that need to be done. During the doublest of the Hagzag test at the Cryslav Bay Convention, there is about 5.5 miles [ 5.5 km], and there is a silent schedule for the Roadmaker to $3.3 billion. In the change, I will propose that the project be funded by special interest paid by the Bank of the Lands. The state fund has 98.2% at the bank. It will be suggested that the owner, the state fund, suggest the bank's management of a special payment of 3.3 billion that will be paid out in the next year to deliver the current project, as previously stated. The bank's failure is excellent, and according to its six - month donation, there is no evidence other than that. There is no basis, then, for the bank to pay special interest to its owner in this way so that important community projects can be financed. The government could immediately inform the bank's administration of these plans so that next year the bank could operate in a way that would require special payment. According to the latest production, the Land Bank's own budget is 232 billion dollars. During 2018, the bank has paid nearly 25 billion for the government's interest. Following these contributions, the bank's financial share is 24.1%, which is well beyond the demands of the FEC, 21.2%. A special interest in 3.3 billion because of the double-way smokejanes would lower the bank's personal capital by about 1%, which is negligible, so that the bank would remain in place with the capital of its own. Mr. President. In this discussion about the funding of transport in this way, it is good to maintain the interest that the bank's profits are primarily due to payment by the public in the country and by companies and due to high interest. It is not surprising, then, that the owner of the bank, which is a government fund, uses the bank to finance a major road that greatly increases safety and that all the people use. In this context, it is also worth asking, " Is it necessary for the Lands Bank to build new world headquarters for billions of people on the most expensive property in the country at the same time that banking services are increasingly moving into electronic services, and fewer and fewer people are making their way to banks? ' It would almost be selling the property and stopping this new building and using the branch offices in the country's backwork. The billions that would be saved could be used for urgent transport projects. When discussing transport plans, you first ask yourself, " Is my plan practical? ' Are the goals there practical when it comes to paying for them? Or are the goals just wishful thinking that everyone will see late being fulfilled? What I find missing in this discussion is whether the goals presented in the program are always the most reasonable. We are too much in so - called bounties or buttholes, as mentioned earlier in the discussion when it comes to road work. Consider an example of the road around the road and from the east. The mountain traffic through Ox between the bottom of Berry's land and the Plain is steep and snowy in winter, causing some problems. The cost of snow mist is, for example, large, but there's quite a year's journey and the east side, both people and freight transport. The new bridge over the Berry Fjord at the bottom of the tide will soon be ready. It's quite a piece of work. On the other hand, unless the road leads to clay and is a project that requires considerable money and that has passed over a plan, it has been through. ... becauseofthe previously mentioned funerals. At the end of this road, you will be able to drive around Iceland in a boundd, but not on the road itself, but by going the distance on Eastern soil. Let us look at the matter only differently. Berry fun is long and narrow. The most realistic and inexpensive project must be a tunnel under the beach. It would then travel from Búlandnes to the south to the north coast, but this project would shorten the round road by some 26◯28 miles [226:28 km] and now much less. This certainly is the most intelligent project and most profitable area in this area for all who travel around the country. No mountain route, no snowstorm, little distance to the Shire, short - tailed distances, and increased safety. We, Mr. President, should think about the future wisely when it comes to transportation. There are many other examples. Roadmaking counts, e.g. It is possible to shorten the road around the southeastern region from the wilderness to the bitter ground about 40 miles [40 km], including By means of a tunnel under Lonhön, and by bringing a doll seat to the glacier in Londi. A tunnel under the Ring would free us from the Whales and Handicaps that are often closed by avalanches and landslides. A 15 - mile [12 km] tunnel would shorten the route, but the road is dangerous and a tunnel as long as possible. Mr. President. The aim of a transport program should be to improve traffic safety, solve traffic weights, and shorten the ringway whenever possible. This, like so many other things, is about financing and priorities. Due to the large collection of needs in the road system as noted, new ways of financing have to be examined. Remuneration should not be excluded. However, it must be general and reasonable. It must not be bitten in one part of the country more than any other, and I hope that the service group now operating at the highest level. A secretary of transportation and a check on remuneration will reach a reasonable conclusion. [[The president calls.]] As mentioned earlier, this plan has many things to do, but because of the passing of time, I have not been able to establish any more aspects of it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u49	A respectable president. Something's been moving in since I asked for the word, but okay, it's so nice to get to. What I wanted to talk about is the link between transport plans in general and the actions and plans made by a national body and how well it gets into a transport program. The process that we now act on under the civil law is that we set up a set of budgets that the government will use in various financial classes. However, now we're going to set up a future transport plan, which is not necessarily a financial agenda. It seems to me, though, that this time the numbers are holding from a financial program. I need to take a closer look, because the financial programme is not as accurate as it is in walking rooms and similar institutions. The numbers seem to remain in the framework set up in a financial program, which is positive. I saw somewhere up to 4 billion to the Roadmaker. This is a bit washed up in the process from financial programmes in the spring, followed by a falllike process of transportation. There should be more agreements with the work of these budgets, and afterward they should be taken into account in financial planning rather than in the wrong way. When we agree with the budget of the budget, people really don't know what is in the transport system, whether we would, for example. wants to fund more or less of the programmes and aim at the priorities submitted by the National Department for Transportation, or to have a higher priority than is actually shown when a transport program is submitted. Or at least have some idea of the fact that we agree with the financial agenda what is precisely under it, whether there are grammatical reasons to make the box bigger or less depending on events. It has been developed, and there is something that needs to be done better because the financial and financial process has changed in recent years, that there is still a financial legal committee that is being passed on rather than on a financial agenda. There's a little exhalation left of the old process as far as it goes. It also plays a small part in the programs that the national parts do about the projects they want to land. The Member States set up projects and accept them on behalf of the European Union and the national part of the network, but this is often not the same when it comes to a transport strategy. It's something I'd like to ask the National Association and the European Union to let us know more at the council, i.e. that when a transport plan and the financial plan and it becomes clear whether the priorities presented in a transport programme are consistent with the priorities already approved in the local community, in the national components, by the European Union as well as by the same, in order to allow us to look for objective reasons for changing priorities based on what has been established by the European Union. I call for reports from rural communities all over the country, where they approved priority, and whether it reflects well or badly in the transport program. I only spoke of maintenance of roads in response to the highest. Minister. The amount you're talking about here is getting pretty high. It has been found that there is a considerable need for maintenance, and because traffic has increased completely immensely, especially in the southwest corner, around the Southland and the Western nature all over the world, but especially here on the south and southwest corner. The road has provided a memo to a financial committee that makes it very clear that to offset this added stress, the road model simply wants to build a better road. It is good and blessed, but there are also ways to cope with increasing wear and tear - down pressures, especially the pressures of large and heavy cars. The cost of transport is now high, e.g. A gas charge. In addition to the added funds, there are other costs and taxes on transportation, which are not fair to say should be put on transportation. There are other factors to consider, for example. Safety concerns, including health care, etc. Because transportation will always be an accident. There have to be more to count on than just the total tax stock of transportation. On the other hand, we might look at such counsel that it is not enough just to build the better roads; it takes a lot. We can also, at least while working on this cumulative maintenance need, take a different task to reduce the pressure at the same time. We are, in effect, saving certain interest costs. It is interesting in the programme for areas where non-programming works are spoken for all areas costing up to 50 million each year, 250 million over the strategy period. That is the same amount of money that was spent in the last transport program, always 50 million each year, preparing nonpronounced tasks. There is no price update in relation to the last transport plan. It was in the price of that transport program, so you wonder how these preparations work outside of schedule. I fully understand that the next project is being done constantly, but are we becoming more practical? What's this, four, five employees, or something like that, that do this all day round the year, preparing a job out of schedule? It would be interesting to see some analysis of how this money is spent. It speaks of the Halfland tunnel, a search for ways to finance a double Hölf land march in cooperation with private people. What is interesting in this regard is that similar activities were carried out in the last Diving Course, where it was marked in exactly the same way, to seek ways to finance the Dizziness Way in cooperation with private workers. Now it's not in, but it's only explained in the report, so I wondered why it is not expected in the same way. Here, a double Hölfjörður march is specifically marked. I wondered, then, why the Sunway is not specifically marked as well. This is an interesting document, and I look forward to the comments and reviews of national countries around the country and the reviews in general about how the transport programme matches the programmes made by different parts of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u50	A respectable president. There is then a transport strategy proposed for the resolution of transport plans for 2019-2333 specifically as well as 20191⁄223, i.e. The five-year plan. Mr. President. It could be expected that the wishes of everyone in this program would not be met. The plan is not that surprising. V.E.G. A secretary of transportation was in advance a serious problem. There will be no debate that there are many projects. The first thing you can find in this program is that it is much heavier and more expensive in later years to 2033. Of course, praising the future has been a custom. V.E.G. According to a secretary of transportation, a program is now established that will exist, even if the effects are far beyond the future, so it is likely that others are involved in keeping that promise. Of course, there was no prior plan. The structure of transportation is one of the greatest investments any society can make. It is not just a matter of security but one of the very best localities known. Based on shortening the distance between communities and smaller populations for all services, sometimes life - sustaining services, may result in longer - term savings as well as an extraordinary national savings. I'm gonna take some examples from this schedule. Bridge across the Hornground. It is assumed that the project will take a few years, because a large proportion of the capital period occurs in 2024 absence2028 during each period - 2.3 and 2.2 billion each period - but the start is expected to be 2021. Of course, it is disappointing that such projects are not being done faster. Fjords are set on ice and financed by 2029/2033. What message is it to the inhabitants of Sufficiency who have been calling for improvement in their transport for years? With regard to the Cannab, in Snow Valley, 450 million is expected to be 2021. Of course, it is very important to fix the slopes and corners of which have been a major accident trap. Next, let me name the tunnel under a mountain of testing. Clearly, certain preparations, including environmental assessment, will be completed there. The plan thus does not expect funding for them, but it does state that there is a possibility that the tunnel will be performed in cooperation with private members. That word is used in a number of transport programs, and I noticed this about the tunnel under a mountain of testing. I think it is very important to speed up environmental assessments there so that the near future will become clear to me as soon as possible. Mr. President. I'm glad that the bridge of the glacier in the Sunland is expected to be made double in the years 20200/2021, the first single bridge of the round road in the south and east of the south side of the southwestern corner of the country. Next, consider round 1 between Selephos and Whoas. It allows for a period of three to four years to be made up of the section from Selephoss to Varmite over the next three years. It's supposed to be a celebration. But the same cannot be said of the chapter in Vardá to the Kömbum. It will not be completed until 2023, so the removal of this dangerous course will not be completed until after five years, which, in my opinion, is too far into the future. And what about the new Elfjörður Bridge? It is assumed that this project will not be funded until the period 2024-2028, which is completely unrecognized, but it can be said to speed it up if it is placed on a private budget by reimbursement. A fairy-year bridge is a critical safety issue for all citizens and operators in the region. This is where traffic dams develop during most busy hours, long rows of cars, and this is a matter of interest to all South England, as well as to everyone in the country, that this water drop will be bridged so as soon as possible. Mr. President. According to the plan, it will take four years to double Kjalarnes Round 1. We will not foresee the end of roads there until 2022, and the maximum performance will be at the end of that period. This is not acceptable for the inhabitants and travelers of this most dangerous section of the country. Doubles of Höfjörður gangs are not on the agenda for the next 15 years, but the above wording on other projects says that there will be a way to finance the project in cooperation with private partners. The Hafnarfnarfjordur's route to the terminal - how is it expected that the double will be completed and when? It's one of the biggest road pots in the country. Double exposure to this road has been subsided. The plan expects the Hafnarfjörður from Hafnarfjörður to be doubled in the next year and by the next year, ridicule to be on schedule in ten years, to have the double finish in ten years, at the end of the second, 228. The road from Fitum up to the base is mainly on plan 2029-52033. And when do we get to experience the double Rhines Way all the way from Hafnarfnarfjörður to the terminal? Her double will be completed in 15 years. What does that message mean when we consider that it had been necessary before because of increased traffic over the Havell tunnel, what does this message mean about this private project? A wording from many parts of the program on personal projects - that it can be done on a variety of projects if it is made available on a private project and financed in this way - means just one thing: This is being announced by means of a form of payment, a private act, or not. There are also many other projects that we are facing. Therefore, I do not understand why the step is not yet taken exactly as if it were allowed into small doses, the government's plan to finance all major projects in the road system over the next few years and decades in payable. It would be more honest to take the initiative and immediately attack these necessary projects that now need to wait a few months while governments must must must muster up the courage to go that way. What are some of the projects mentioned here? Evidently, the Wrench Vow, possibly an Alf - Alf - Year Bridge, the test mountain, I'm sure. Where's the Daffy Way? It's not named. I didn't see her. And I could possibly mention other such projects. V.E.G. To this end, the secretary of transportation has appointed a group to consider whether or how this idea would be best developed. At the very least, it is easy to see, the one listed here, the financier to get our roads into our modern world. Mr. President. We call practical solutions that are sufficient to carry out the urgent projects I have mentioned. This transport program is good as far as it goes. It just doesn't get far enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u51	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a council agreement on a transport plan. It is very positive to see that an attempt to look for longer than usual, to look up to 15 years of age with all complaints about the extent to which investment will take place over a period of time - it should be commended. You have to take the will for the job. Looking ahead and trying to set priorities on our individual needs, taking into account circumstances, is an important approach. I also welcome the highest words. The secretary of transportation that for the first time, however, it is being submitted to the Parliament's transport program, which will depend on the transport budget for the next five years in the government budget. That's fine. There has been a loss of approach to the council in these matters to set up a road plan as a common list of people without any practical basis for financing that list fully, as the examples of the last transport program show us so clearly. However, this is in the context of something I've cut over, but it's about the development of traffic in the country in recent years. Of course, there is good reason to believe that while there has been a high growth in tourism, traffic has increased dramatically. Also, in recent years and decades, we see a great increase in land transport, which puts pressure on our road system. At the same time, we must face the fact that we have not followed, either in new investing or in maintenance, in financing. It's our subject here. I'm sorry to see the present situation. In recent years, with a large increase in expenses, transportation has been left behind in many respects. It is difficult to face yet another journey: When it comes to cooling off in the economy, when we should have time to take on increased projects, there is no room for money simply to be spent on a different scale and to continue to be set aside in the coming years and years. I'd most much like to criticize it in the approach of this plan, if I might simply simplify it, that there's a bit of the council left with the chalice. Transport improvements are needed in areas where the growth of traffic has increased most, which is right here on the southwestern corner of the country - where there has been a tremendous growth in the Smokey Way, on the Southland road east to Selephos, and on the western coast of the city, in recent years. At the same time, these roads have been under way for a very long time. If we look e.g. to the type of rock that was lifted in its time, to the double part of the Smokey Way, it was in a very different traffic load than we see in the same way today. It is urgent to complete this work, but there is no room for financial affairs. The message to the council is as simple as this: If you want to do something about it, we'll just have to take a hit on this road. This may be the case. But I rather agree with the highest. A secretary of transportation, before he became a travel minister, said that perhaps it would be more honest to talk about what tax increases we are going to use to finance our road system or how we are going to reimburse the whole road. I think we have to get to the mission. In this controversies proposal, another trip speaks of the time to consider a new payment in the road system. It's been said for a few years, that it's time to reimburse the road system, but I think we're going to have to complete that job and decide what future arrangements we're going to make for this payload. Perhaps because of the technical problems so far, the future solutions may not be quite ready, but then we can bridge the period between them. When we look at the trends that will be involved in energy exchange in transport - which would have to be even more ambitious on this government, we would need to have faster energy exchange - we will see that fuel costs will not give us the same amount of money to build up the road system that they have done in the past. We need to get in touch with the road system 'cause there's a cost on a mile [1 km], regardless of fuel, and we're going to make a special tax payment on the disposal of the road system. We even have to reimburse the payment of heavy transport, to reflect in some way the wear and tear that happens on their account, i.e. that the base theme is that the user is paying. That work must be speeded up. No longer is it about talking year after year about the time for this to be examined. I'm the highest. The secretary of transportation is eager to speed up that work. That responsibility awaits us at the council to take a stand on different avenues that may be effective in this regard. I don't think for a longer time it's fair to throw these costs solely in the way, e.g. ... hereinthewesthorn. Surely all of us will pay in some way; we all have transportation at the southwest corner. Not to be overlooked, however, is the fact that in the neighboring capital area, there are a number of people who go to work daily in the capital area; they live in the city of Rhines, in the City of Aquilin, or in the city of Borg. This would be an enormous amount of cost at a job application for the respective groups. I think it's normal for us to approach the funding of the road system in a more complete way than that. This is most critical to me when I look at it. I'd like to avoid a discussion about a single road rat at this point. All of us have opinions about that. It is obvious, however, that there is going to be a lot of pressure in the community and here at the council on the necessary reform of the Rhine Way, to complete a double there. It is quite clear, when you see a large project, such as the Elfjörður Bridge transport, that it has become a very important project for the community in the South, especially at Selephoss. Based on the incidence of accidents and increased traffic weights and traffic accidents here in the capital area, it is urgent to attack the necessary reforms of the city's institutions, such as some of the masquerading ideas mentioned here. In addition, the importance of transport improvements in the region is not reduced, and various soil projects have been referred to. But after all, we need to afford these projects. We need to be able to cope with funding our road system. It also brings thought to the other things that are maintained. This has been shown in the discussion, and it is quite clear that there is a very large need for maintenance in the road system that we need to cover. But we need to be able to resolve within the means set out in the budget. I'm not going to talk about large attendances and large - scale expenses at the same time that I've been giving strong criticism to the huge expansion that has already taken place in government business. We need to find ways not only to advance the economy of the government itself but also to cover the most important projects here and then in the form of a new currency, that the burdens of that work are evenly distributed on all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u52	President. We will discuss one of the largest projects at the age of 5 and 15. It is large not only with regard to the time frame set but also with the scope of the measures for the money as well as with the future impacts. You see, a road that is being constructed today will still be driven in some decades. How we organize the system in 2018 affects the way our children and grandchildren associate with the country. So it is a big project, especially within the environment and transport committee, and that project could not really be carried out at a better time. At the beginning of the week, we received a report by the United Nations Climate Committee, which showed us once more and perhaps more clearly than ever that action in the interests of climate change is not being delayed. If we are going to deliver to succeeding generations not only a secure and efficient transport system but also a world to live in them all of the public plans, especially the transport programs, have to take into account the challenges they meet. The need for revolutionary changes is urgent for us to cope with the climate crisis, and these adjustments need to be made more clearly in the transport program. I have great hope that the environmental and transport programme will be successful in improving the project much stronger than it already is. Earlier this fall, the government introduced a climate action program. It is based on two main mechanisms, which are the bonds of carbon through forestry or the recovery of wetlands and the transport of energy. I'd like to say that a transport plan is actually a third place because it's not about changing the energy that the truck fleet's access to, but of driving fleets. It's supposed to be about fewer private cars, increased public transportation, and better to walk and cycle in Iceland. Not only do we need to replace the oil with the electricity of cars but we need to replace the car with something else for the future. I'm sorry that the proposal before the council doesn't work well enough. There is a need for a much better understanding of the transport plan and the activities of climate. Perhaps it is because they appear at the same time, but there are no Keyways to transport in order to implement measures for climate change. A transport program aims for sustainable transport, and it speaks of working in accordance with the government's climate action programme. This is reflected in many parts of the document. But there are no black operations to implement during the five-year program. We need measures aimed at reducing the number of traffic cars. This is of utmost importance, for as noted at the time of the introduction of a climate plan, it is very likely that a car purchased today will be on the streets in 2030 when the Paris Convention is due. This will include the commitments Iceland can make or will not survive. Thus, it is important not only that from today on, the share of renewable energy in transport is increasing year by year but that cars are reduced. Then I would decide when I had the plans in my hands that they were apparently estimating the environment, as the law has assumed, and as the last plans have been done, but I don't give evidence that they were specifically determined by climate goals, as determined by the government's stipulation to achieve all larger plans. It would have been necessary, but since it was not done, I suggest that the Environment and Transport Committee specifically examine the procedure proposed in a transport program to serve climate targets. I hope the committee appreciates both sides of the equation, where we're going in the right direction, and where we're not. I'm going to complete a brief review of three, four things I especially want to point out. I feel very good and progress from the previous plan on how walking and cycled road users are spoken. You see, walking is more than just cars, airplanes, and boats. Transport is all we do to get to the same place, whether by our own power or by the power of any device. That is why it is so important that we have well - equipped people who walk and ride in the community, not only in the urban area, but so that places can be arranged in that way, because every individual we can move out of the car and to use his own power to go between positions is too much in the interest of climate. Then I'd like to see that this is still an additional 1 billion for public transport in the most populously modern capital area to expand the service of people in the most densely populated areas of the country. I'd like to encourage the Environment and Transport Committee to secure that amount, and even raise it, out of the five-year period, because in the proposal, the additional development will go out in the last or second-last year of the program, to remind me. And then it may be the largest piece that is missing, the largest piece that would have been nice to have here, but, fortunately, it's going to have to be successful before we agree with this plan, and that's the pay line. It is a project that is enormous and important when it comes to our fulfilling our commitments to climate agreements and fulfilling our obligation to future generations to have here a viable society. The city line is due to begin 2020. That's the second year of the five-year plan. When an agreement is reached between the rural areas of the capital and the transport authorities, which the minister said would be expected to be November 15th, I expect the Environment and Transport Committee to act in a clear fashion in the transport program. As a minister said, the transport program is a matter of security, not only of security for travelers but of security for those who will be behind us. If we don't have a city line, if we don't have a practical choice on public transportation to get people out of a contaminating transport system, then there won't be much security for future generations here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u53	V.E.G. President. Here, we'll discuss a transport program with the secretary of transportation and the local government, and I would like to thank him for the excellent review of the group of litigators. For the first time, there was the government and the Allied policy on transport between 5 and 15 years of age. Prior to this, plans have been made for 4 and 12 years, but this is a turning point in which for the first time a transport plan is implemented to 15 years in line with the integration and harmonization laws. A five - year plan is a plan for implementation, which is now presented with financial contributions and in full agreement with government. It is an important and large stage in itself that shows responsible financial management and a vision for the future. This type of work is important so that you can look forward to the future and put out a paper in which you can put it. This is not a list of wishes. It is a realistic, financing plan. V.E.G. President. Transport is the foundation of the economic system. Good transport lays the groundwork for the competitiveness of the nation and the quality of life in the country. As noted in this report, good transportation and communication and information technology are essential for living here today's independent nation. Research has shown that the development of the environment in the country and the development of the transport system affects one another. The network is the nation's lifeline, and it will soon be overrated, for transport is not just a matter of transporting people and cargo into land, sea, and air; transport has always been accompanied by the transport of information and ideas. A major revolution has been in this area, and information technology will have a major bearing on the future development of transport. V.E.G. President. The basis for the development of a long transport plan involves consultation and conversation so that priorities and professional work on it can be made. Transport plans include funding and spending all aspects of transport, i.e. Air traffic, road and navigation, including public transportation, ports, marine defences, security and transport environment. The stage is wide, in fact, affecting all aspects of society and hence all the inhabitants of the country. So conversation and consultation are important. The one present has been appointed to take the lead in transport and work with it. In the Council's commission from the minister stands word for word, by permission of the president: "It is important to contribute to integrating the transport system as a whole to serve citizens of the country, tourists and commercially. The variety of ways to strengthen existing transport systems and develop the needs of public and employment and the complex role and security of the transport system should continue to be developed. Heavy emphasis is placed on safety and based grounds, i.e. to improve local housing quality and to strengthen job structure. Transport is the key to establishing a transport strategy. There's been 11 formal meetings and more than 300 meetings. In addition to these formal meetings, with member of the rural, rural, sectoral organizations, the representatives of the Free Associations Associations and Travellers, other parties involved in the public planning were widely consulted. Communication plans, rural and national planning plans, tourism, public health policies, climate Action Programmes, etc. have to be reviewed. This summer's legal travel program ended with a conjugal process. The results of consultation are of the utmost importance: Security was emphasized in every part of the world. Increased visual monitoring and a decrease in the maximum rate needed are called. Lowering the maximum rate may be a powerful way to reduce the number of accidents that are too high and are taking excessive toll. It's interesting to know that less than half of the road system is bound to break. The evidence shows that people want to set priorities so that new projects will be emphasized in the areas in which they have lived. Clearly, most people want to continue to be organized. The plans for improving public transport and emphasis on internal growth are made in part. It was called for the need to improve the negatives and to strengthen the transport process. Travellers want to support a steady international flight at different locations, and it was noted that it is important to maintain the survival of tourists in the highlands, e.g. with unbrided rivers to name something. Something must be as it is, as soon as transportation is urgent in general and everywhere. Then there is the need to hear about the inhabitants of the country but to be willing to consider a variety of financing methods and to cooperate with them where appropriate. V.E.G. President. The plans presented here reflect these views. The plan takes into account and is part of a comprehensive integrated policy in transport, communications, rural and rural affairs. It is in accordance with the Generals and the Government's agreed plans. The current strategy for the council shows a change and improvement in plans. For the first time, it is in accordance with the expected budgets adopted by the General Assembly on budget 2019/2023. A communication plan is a practical document for projects that can be attacked in the years to come. The Treaty states that the government wants to speed up road construction and other transport activities, both by new and maintenance. This work was immediately done. The road system has been maintained at an unprecedented rate this year. During the past few years, urgent maintenance projects and cumulative problems were dealt with. This year, 12 billion were provided to ensure successful traffic security. The programme aims to increase the budget to 10 billion dollars. This year, 2019 C.E. A total of 160 billion are expected to be used in the maintenance and construction of the road system for the next five years. V.E.G. President. We did get far with this amount, but it does not flinch to meet the meeting problems as fast as we would like. Thus, the secretary of transportation has suggested that this amount can be doubled by means of a means of financing. That is an advantage, and we need to make good use of what is appropriate so that we can speed up urgent and important tasks. One of the aims of the transport programme is to plan positive development and to improve habitat quality, i.e. that transport is as simple, reliable, and safe as possible with special emphasis on national and regional cores within it. A transport system must be considered as a unit, with the aim of it to serve people and commercially in an efficient manner. All measures are under way to maximise security, protect human life, and to provide equal protection for those nations that are primarily in security. At the end of a 15-year plan, the goal is to have developed the network of transport. It is a major objective that needs to be determined on the basis of safety guidelines in setting priorities. It's urgent to ensure the safety of all the people of the country and our guests throughout the country. The aims of safe transport are an important factor and emphasis on the security of all decisions, priorities, and transport practices regardless of travel practices. But their goal is to protect human life, and Iceland's survival is equal to the countries that are on security at the same time. The task facing is so varied that when you look at the distance between the sea and the sky, it is between them. They not only turn to the national road system but also to airports and ports. Increased funds are expected for maintenance of flights, but more is needed if sufficient. The country's changing management systems are aimed at ensuring a better management and maintenance. I hope that a committee who works on these matters will bring about an immediate and successful outcome so that things can come to a good standing. Then the U.S. Aeroplane policy will appear soon and hopefully no later than next year when a 100th anniversary flight in Iceland. The waters of the land also need to be maintained, but many of them have come to the place where they need much maintenance. Hence, contributions to the Refiner Fund have never been more important, and transport plans have been made to indicate that during the first period, there will be a first-time cruise policy for Iceland, which aims to increase the growth and sectoral development of shipping and related articles. It must be important to an island nation. Transport affects our daily lives and the decisions made by the government. With a clear vision and a firm follow-up, we will reach these important goals. Thus we will strengthen our residence throughout the country and increase our prospects for continuing to build up our community. I wish for a benefit from the Environment and Transport Committee on the work of this Parliamentary arrangement.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u54	Mr. President. We will discuss a transport program between 15 and less years of age, and five years of age. This arrangement is largely written, and it does not contain minor issues, for we here discuss matters that concern people throughout the country, their well - being, and their livelihood. Our own basic systems, our land transport, air, and uterus are also transportation, as it were, via communications, transportation in the vastest sense of that word. We talked yesterday at the General Assembly on the importance of ensuring the security of people and livelihood, that we guarantee that the basis of life will not be cut off by our actions, to come to the aid of the country, because it is the purpose of this country to establish laws and rules, but also to divide the quality of this country in a fair way. Thus, it is important to consider each part of the country, that entire parts of the country will not be left behind when switching money from the government box to transport and new projects. It is equally important to be careful, and especially to look at, areas that have somehow been left behind in the unprecedented goodness that has existed for the past few years. Or what? You see, there are areas in this country that have somehow lost some of this unprecedented kindness. There is so much money in the box, they say on days, but it is true that residents of certain territories will have to live years after they can't go anywhere to attend basic services. These are not just the people who choose to live away from the inhabited earth, so remote that it is virtually impossible to make a requirement to get everywhere, that's a big part of the country. Here we are talking about Vests, who are very important to us at the General Assembly of these days. First, I want to direct our eyes at the council to how we are going to provide them with adequate transportation. Sadly, such an event still does not seem to occur in the next few years with the present government. Once again, transport improvements and new projects are extremely rife in this area. Granted, there are welcome animal tunnels on a program that has cost a great deal of money. We can see that in the near future, they will be exhausted, which is a great cause for joy, for everyone knows how important they are to this area, both to residents and to tourists. But what remains is what will take place when the tunnel is out of the tunnel. Because when you drive to the north and south, you get a call from Daringda. The region of the waterfall has become beautiful, unbeautiful, and pure beauty. But how can you benefit from the Westerners who have to make their way between the South and the North? According to the government's decision, the inhabitants of the South Coast are to attend health services north of Isafjörður to the medical facility there, but much of the time of the year is impossible. Thus, this calls for about eight hours to drive before the south. They will attend the National Institute of Health at the Western Institute of Health, U.S.A. One might ask: " What genius did this come up with? V.E.G. When he introduced a transport plan earlier today, a secretary said that national traffic security and tourism are number one, two and three. Then you wonder if it's the matter. There's a lot of security in just sitting at home and going nowhere, just sitting home hoping things will get better, sitting at home because of the bad road. There is a great deal of security in not building a road or securing easy transportation, so that people just don't make it. Of course, we all know, including the highest. Minister, there's no safety in it. People must get on their way, go to school, go to work, and attend a foreign service. In this regard, Westerners, as long as the oldest humans remember, have been made to live in a state of absolute inadequacy. The highway west to Ísafjörður is certainly a better north route than the route that connects the South to nomadic. However, it is not possible to meet a vehicle on the way. The traditional vehicle can hardly fit on the highway to Isafjörður, the largest urban core of the West. So there is little security there. There is another area that I would also like to call attention to, that is the capital area, which has also been completely neglected by governments in terms of transport reforms and innovations for a long time. Here in the capital area where two - thirds of the country's population still live. The doubles of Rhine Ways through Hafnarfjörður, which is not only to facilitate transportation but also a tremendous security issue, are not guaranteed all the way in the next five years, not at all. We're always booing some pieces, some stubs. This is an enormous security issue for nearly all tourists who come to the country, except for those who come with Norwegian. We are talking about the inhabitants of the southwest corner who attend work, study, and service here in the capital area, but also about the people of the city who work in the Smokeynesi, who have to go that way every day. This huge group is not safe. Because it's the highest. Special attention was given to the security issues of a longer and shorter transport programme, both of the people we're considering today, must state that this is a point I think must get on top of the priority list. In the end, because time is running away from me, I have to mention the huge security details that are public transportation. The climate changes that appear to us with tremendous proportions of time are of the order of magnitude that we must respond. We have to reduce carbon emissions, that's what we do by reducing the number of private cars. We do not do this by telling people that they should only be at home, no, we do it by promoting public transportation, both here in the capital area, where we are looking at the city line, but we may need to speed it up, but also to help people travel to and from the capital area. What's it like, for example? by public transportation between capital area and Smokeness? What about public transportation in the Westland, Southland? Are we perhaps a little asleep when it comes to public transportation in general? Do we not need to develop powerful instruments, more powerful public transportation that ensure that people are both safe and safe in traffic but can also make greater speed between areas? I think we need to think a little bit outside the box and be a little forward and brave when it comes to that. Because this is the big thing for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u55	A respectable president. We're talking about a five - year transport program, 2019,2023, as well as from 2019, 20203. Transporter talks about transport, and in the plan, there is a double SVI from Kryslavík and Calessel. There's been a terrible accident. This is one of the most accidental scenes in the country, especially from the Sólveig to Crysuvik Road, and it's good to see that it's on program 2019◯23. It's a very dangerous cigarette track right now. There are slots in the road, and in the heat of rain, this is a very dangerous road. The aim of a traffic security programme, says by permission of a president: It's a... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... That Iceland will be among the top European nations in terms of a number of deaths and serious road injuries per 100,000 people. b. After the death and severe traumas, an average of about 5% a year, respectively. In the Eelphune Way to Savile Street, one of the most accidental scenes in the country, there has been and there has been terrible traffic accidents. There's also room for cleaning up. That is why I ask, " How many accidents must be before it's done? ' What's the plan on that? Yes, nothing is to be done until after 2024-2028, and this is one of the most tragic aspects of the country. How does this harmonize with reducing the number of deaths and reducing the number of accidents if nothing is to be done until at first after five years of that accident period? Then, after the first 2024●2028, it is assumed that there would be a decline in Smokejanes Way and a misdirection on the Smokejanes Road along the Hafjörður Way, Fjordur, and Lugdar. It should be on the schedule immediately and cannot wait to 2024. This is true of traffic statistics. We must realize that the time has come for us to be one or two hours from Hafnarfjörður to Reykjavík. And again, one or a half hours from Reykjavík to Hafnarfjörður, which was the cause of pollution. It is unacceptable that this will occur for the next 203/4:30 years. I just can't believe it. I don't understand why we haven't started to deal with that problem, because it needs to be done right away. Predict the pollution resulting in such delay, as tens of thousands of automobiles continue to drift for one to two hours twice a day. A transport program says that greenhouse gas emissions will be reduced in accordance with government policies on climate. This is a joke based on the fact that tens of thousands of cars are to go on twice a day for the next 20 to 30 years with the related pollution. The surface road was removed that would solve much of the problem of Smokejanes. People now travel the refugee route, which is at the Urnarholt to escape morning traffic dams. Then people in despair also run over the hill to escape. Soon it will also be a sea of refugees, which is going up the hill of Kopavog to escape the hatches. It's amazing. There seems to be no solution to this. I'm asking a secretary of transportation if he has any excellent solution to that problem. Is it not time for us to figure out that people are stuck there every morning and evening? Then you look at people desperately trying to find a way out of the tunnel, trying to shorten the way. But it is not planned to do anything about it until then. Then Kjalarnes, from Mosfellsville, is also on the 2019/2023 program, and is well pleased. But the number of tourists going through Leifs Station is unprecedented. The fact that there has been so much population growth on the city of Rhines and in Hafnarfjörður has resulted in the proliferation of traffic through the Rhine Way. It's a simple course through Hafnarfjordur, and we need to realize that it's only after 2024 that we're going to take over the course from Krysavík to Hassaun. It's really weird. It's always talking about an accident costing so much, dozens if not hundreds of billions. We've got big accidents, and we've got to stop them. But we must also think rationally, thinking that it is natural for us to be stuck in traffic from Reykjavík to Hafnarfjörður day after day. I know there's been an attempt to find solutions to such problems abroad. I heard about Norway, where there's a similar problem. They have bus routes that are highly traffic, and then they allow two or more people in a car to use them, but, of course, the bus is in first place if they are gone. We must find some such way. It's not acceptable to have things like this for the next 30 years. We need to realize that the accidents, e.g. On the road from Elffines to the Savile Street of Hafnarfjörður, there are quite extraordinary numbers. It's a broken road. Any accident there is one accident too much. Tell me about it. It sucks that there's gonna be an accident at the same corner as there's nothing to do. They push the cases ahead to the next 5, 10, 15, and they think, " All right, let's just make the accidents happen. ' Is this justified? I say no. I'm sure those who are going to have accidents in that section won't accept it, and those who have been involved in an accident in that section are also unhappy. There's something else I'd like to point out. I went north for the summer, and I went to the Vestlands, and there was this amazing butt-sacrifice, one of the greatest pieces I've ever seen. I wonder, " Who would think of putting a chapter like this in a chapter? ' There's a chapter of asphalt, a piece of moth that isn't drooping, and then there's a chapter of asphalt again. They take tools and tools back and forth. How much? It doesn't look good. Then a man of the West, the Pride of the Earth, sees the tunnel that is to come, and comes to the Top of the World, and when there is another slaughter. So the tunnel in itself is a small solution, unless the hiking up the Daring Bear is made decent, but I say for me that I don't see how this section can be made so that it can be good all winter. I usually think he's extremely dangerous. Then it's south of the West. There's a butt cut and nothing seems to work. Then there is one thing that needs to be handled, which we never seem to be able to achieve, and that is one form of bridges. There seems to be nothing about destroying them on the roads of our country. I hope that it will be cleaned up and destroyed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u56	Mr. President. We'll discuss a couple of Parliamentary decrees, i.e. Transportary design 2019 20203 and 2019-22033. This may be the opposite of what many people would think, but there has been quite a stir in transportation, at least The time I've been using my own country's roads, but, of course, we're all here because a little faster. Most of us members of the Parliament have just been in our election districts for a week, and we have heard the sentiments of the people and the local government on the needs of the local work. In my district in the Southwestern district, transportation is what most of the local government brings up in conversations with members of the Parliament and perhaps not indiscriminately. Transport issues are as they've been made of no small issue, they're not just a matter of getting away from A to B, they can be life questions, they can be health issues; how can we get in between places at the most. In this context, I would like to list some of the roads planned for the southwestern district, or near, a transport program. To form Eaglenes Road, which will be one of the transport mechanisms that will improve traffic flow through Garville, Kópavog, and Reykjavík. It is jumped through the park town that will clear up a considerable amount of land in the park farm for outdoor purposes as well as for construction. It's a double Sverejanes Way south of Hafnarfjörður. Then it's the ringway through Kopavog. It is not by chance that I consider these projects to be in this order. This is all projects in the second part of the plan, i.e. after 2024. As other members of the Parliament have reported, it is a concern that this large area is this much again in the plan. Although the local community has a mixed experience with it, I wondered if there is any activity going on in the transportation and rural administration services with the local community on whether their communities can help with some project funding and thus speed projects, although they can perform at least ten or twelve years of age in Kópavogur, still have a transport program where the state is now, in the thirteenth year after the implementation of the project, to pay Kópavsand farms for their performances, which were small under the Rhine track and knowledge of men. She's finally there. I know that rural society might be a bit burned by such things, but I still think that this is something that should be fully examined, just as if to examine seriously whether it is possible to speed things up to form the external funding of some private people, even though it is not done unless there are clearly other ways that people can go. Other projects, however, in the early part of the transport programme and should be thanked as the doubles through Mosfellsville and 2+2 roads in Kjalarnesi are also very important. You see, this is quite important for a community like Iceland where one of the burdens for our economy actually builds most of the transport sector, i.e. Tourism service. It is not a small or small matter at any rate or in what priority are we building transportation, and it is important for all of us to keep that in mind. I can't come in a public assembly and talk about a transport plan any other than to mention public transportation, as more members of the council have actually done. Public transport is not only important in reducing road pressures and reducing the need to increase the road system over time, but is a major environmental factor. It is, therefore, a joy to continue putting money on public transportation, although there could always be more. It can always be discussed on such grounds. Similarly, I miss a little of the transport plan, but I don't think it's an object of bicycle riding enough when it's conceived. I can promise you what. Congress members will hear me talk about bicycle riding all the time. I would, for example. want it to be written directly into the transport program that when new transport projects are carried out, not just in the capital area, but throughout the country, they are expected to be on the same side of the cycle. This is now on new projects, not in minor improvements or restorations. This is of utmost importance because this is also one of the factors involved in making the country a real choice for the large number of tourists traveling around the world on bicycles. Here in the capital area, this too is vital, especially for those of us who choose bicycles to get to and from work. The State power should also penetrate. I'd just like to touch what some speakers have also gotten into here, i.e. funding the road system. What will we do in the future when we gradually leave the fossil fuels, which has actually been the main means to finance the road system, to finance the road system when all cars are on a foreign fuel or a domestic source of energy? I think that discussion really is social stuff. How will we ensure that the government will continue to receive funding for the road system and public transportation as the opposition to the State gradually disappears? This discussion needs to be addressed, and as with some speakers before, it is no later than immediately. Mr. President. Because I have one more minute of my time, I'd like to mention one point at the valve, which is not a lot about transportation in the capital area, which is emulsion time. Emulsion time is the choice of large communities to companies, institutions, schools, etc. start the operation at different times so that not everyone is using the road system exactly the same time, e.g. Between eight and nine in the morning or what it is. The best proof that emulsion works is seen to make those days during the spring when high school students are in tests and students or high school teachers do not take a private car to work. At that time, all traffic is much easier, even though there are only 1◯2% of all on the roads that take a break during that period. I'd like to encourage the Ministry to start examining this route.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u57	A respectable president. So I've gotten used to my home environment that like Christmas cards or even springtime in the country, a road program is always waiting with great excitement. Often we have been disappointed by the Westerners, but we are persistent and optimistic people, confident that we will see the end of our hopes and wishes. That is why I am especially happy when I study a transport program laid before the council today. It contains transport policies and the definition of the network of transport to cover the whole country. It establishes a comprehensive integration and policy of transportation, communication, and community development. The most important point is that in the contribution of transport programmes, improved work management is seen, but for the first time, it is in line with expectations, future budgets, and therefore in accordance with financial programmes for 2019◯23. It is, therefore, a practical plan, and no unrealistic request. Transport scheme shall aim to ensure that the only integrated network that serves the population and the most successful commercial life would be the transport network. Extra access to products and services and improve motility. It is a pleasure to see the main areas on which a transport plan is based, but the major footways that come out of the capital are emphasized, and now the base network of road roads on the West is also to be completed. The spring is near. In general, the main part of the programme is to ensure the safety of road users as well as to ensure improved transport systems. In the northwestern district, it will begin with 2+1 roads in Kjalarnesi. It is a project that has been called behind, and it is urgent that the current road does not meet entirely security requirements or contribute to the tremendous growth in traffic in recent years. It is expected that as early as 2019 the work will begin. Kjalarnes'conduct is inevitable because of the increased traffic and safety of road users. One job area is in the southwest corner, and the number of tourists has grown dramatically. As a result, it will be assumed that the road between Hagfjörg and Cityhood will be improved during the second and third periods and driving policies will be separated by 2+1 one road. Now I come to the brightest light that is that the building site on the West will be first and in the plan will provide support for the development of Duderninghös as soon as the design of the road site is complete and this has passed through environmental food. This is a secure funding for construction at the Gufudal Squad. Then the Westerners can at last say that they have a normal transport system. A transport program shows that funding is estimated to be a maintenance and fixture of low-pass road erosions. They usually have limited weight tolerance, their height and plan are inadequate, and so on. Where road design rules, such as in turns and blind hills, are removed, appropriate counter measures will be taken. It may be considered to lower the maximum rate if all roads have a low design rate or a short distance. This can help to speed up the fixation of limited violations of road colours without being safe. The budget of the proposed period is likely to cover some 130 miles [30 km] of wear. A respectable president. The government has made a significant contribution to the maintenance of roads. This year, there were 12 billion secures for maintenance, which are used to make significant improvements and on the way to ensure successful traffic security. A transport program stresses safety. This task is being done to repair a bound broken layer that lacks and reduces the number of single bridges. It is important that the maintenance of roads is stressed along with new projects. A transport program anticipates a significant increase in maintenance donations, as there is a growing need. When it comes to the safety of road users, it is of utmost importance. The government is given the task of setting priorities and looking to the situation, the dangers it poses, and the weight of its traffic. For transport workers, there has been some reports of depositing roads when looking into private projects. In order to speed up transport activities, there is a process of reimbursement useful to specific types of workers. Such remuneration of individual manpowers allows space in a transport program and can be used sooner than expected in the program itself. During the month - to - month period, the death of a whale tunnel is an example of good cooperation in transport reform. In this regard, we could name tunnels and large projects around our capital city, such as the Sunway and the Double Smokenes Way. A respectable president. It is not enough to build a wide road with a fancy wearer if winter service is not cared for. In the United States, most of the year has the tops of the snow. Increased services are needed, especially by increased traffic, including for tourists. In addition, some of the most complex roads around the capital area have increased the scope of winter service. The current programme provides additional funds for winter services that reflect a bright tone in the policy safety objective. Transport plans are not just about the roads of the country. We're talking about flying, telecommunications and ports. We want to see the international flight strengthened, despite the fact that the number of international passengers has not changed much in recent years, but this is clarified by improved roads and better winter service. But that is not to say that the importance of domestic flight is to be reduced. A serious consideration of an idea that has been taught by the Scottish route aims to find ways to subsidize aerospaces, as has been done in Scotland and elsewhere. They're building a big deal that's affecting the rest of the country. Good flight transport opens the country's doors to health care, special service, and recreation available only in the capital area, and it can also be reversed because it is as far as both ways. It is also important to maintain airports all over the country as you look to the patient. Transport and communication enable the nationals to approach the public core services at a short time, and it is a pleasure to see that the co-reaching of the programme is being developed on a long-term communication strategy to between 5 and 15 years of age. It is, in fact, there. covered the development of remote networks all over the country. The importance of communication for road users continues to increase, especially when we consider the safety of road users. The use of instruments in modern intelligent equipment is increasing and we will likely see in the immediate future self - driving cars that will likely be on the way of the country before this transport program expires. A respectable president. The main objective of the transport process is for transport to be efficient. Increased safety of roadfarers, shortening of roadways, easy main routes, lower road delays, and increased landways are all being helped to make the long - term transport system more efficient. I rejoice in an ambitious transport program and hope that it will soon be carried out.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u58	Mr. President. In the transport program we now discuss, various grasses are taught. It would be unsettled to do some special work or to discuss a unique project. As you read it, you will find that it is the highest. A secretary of transportation has had a worthwhile job of putting these together, consistent with all the views that exist, and setting priorities in proper order. It has to be said that he has succeeded in doing quite well to the end of the point that it shows that there is wide and solid solid agreement on the importance of their tasks, whether they are on airways, cruises, or road construction. V.E.G. Also, a secretary of transportation is not jealous of living in real life and taking it into account, at least taking into account that the five-year plan needs to be in harmony with the financial programme. It is honest, and it is the right thing to do. I don't have anything to put in myself. The situation is what it is and we have to work with what we have. However, there is reason to discuss this with members of this hall how to achieve more success or to go faster into the projects we all know to be so necessary. I hear a number of talks under this program that members of the Parliament believe that there are, of course, so many projects to be done more quickly. Then let's discuss what options are available, i.e. before the members of the assembly, each one with his own list of priorities, how they will bring all of this together. Let's just discuss options then. Our first choice is to set our priorities in some other way. We can then make a choice to address the internal priorities and the funds set up in the transport program, as a government budget assumes, that we will start bringing all the money. There's one way. We can also examine the external priorities of the entire budget; we can honestly discuss whether other types of money needs to be taken and put on a transport program. That certainly is an option. I'm not going to mention the choice that we're going to start raising government expenditures or raising spells on people. That's not an option for me. But we have two other options. One of them has been mentioned here earlier today by various means. Councilmen. He is that those who use it, i.e. that we take up the road and/or the state go on some form of cooperation, some PPP funding projects, where private and government put together, the public makes some kind of frame around projects, and then it's the private people who take the risk of attacking such projects, which are those who use the constructions that pay for it. Such ideas make a lot of sense. I think we have to resolve this discussion in some way and actually realize if there's an option there. I think it's much better if we discuss the alternative to the state's going on a so - called cooperative route, providing a risk, making sure that money is used in a more reasonable way or more efficient way, which often leads to a better result, that it is in the hands of a private person than that the state takes all the risks of individual projects. An example of this is the hippopotamus. But there's still another option I think we should pay attention to. He's looking at the government's balance sheet. View the property that the State has tied to, whether it is stock, money, or all the property of the state that I understand, over 800 billion in the budget bill. That there are some 400 billion pure property in regard to the Kingdom. Of course, this is where the largest part of the state's property is concerned with the two business banks. Is it not honest for us to at least consider converting these property of the State from the capital of which is bound as part - money and into investments into important structures? That must be considered. I'm going to mention in this speech here, without going into a special project, that the emphasis is at the highest level. A secretary of transportation has a very good security strategy. In particular, do I mention the country roads that the Road makes plans to go faster to fix? In this regard, I would suggest that I have a direct inquiry to the highest level. A secretary to the school of children on the dreary roads that are so widespread in the countryside. There's something I think we should pay attention to and to the highest. A transportation committee would have to step in. I'm going to finish this by thinking about one point that's inevitable that we're talking about a transport plan. I've mentioned a number of ways in which the plan is practical. That's what we need to do. I've established the ways in which we can do that more quickly, how we can place more money on these projects without risking irresponsible government control or raising the budget. But we have this great plan. Let us say that she is in all respects a fund that we want. Then the question is, How are we going to get into doing all that has to be done according to the plan? I mention it in the light of recent events in the management board, where the Environmental and Resource Commission determined that there was a major defect in the environmental impact of a particular activity in the country. Over the years, we know how difficult it has been for us to get out of the tire tracks or the dirt that every plan for construction in the country can land. Of course, it would be unsettled to mention this road through the Gufudal Orchestra, but it is certainly a lesson we can learn from the fact that the road to the Gufu Valley Army has been doing for 20 years on schedule. Twenty years and still doesn't see her end. I think we need to consider seriously if we are going to implement these major projects here in the capital area or throughout the country that we need to revise the legislation on the entire administration we've been living in. How governments, management agencies, operate, how they have the ability to make informed decisions about important structures. I say, great to have the plan. Let's discuss it, and let's discuss solutions to find some funding for this project, but we must also answer the question, How will we then carry out all that needs to be done?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u59	Mr. President. Transport programmes we're discussing here are going to pay a great deal as far as they can go. Unfortunately, that is the case with the highest degree. Transporter's got hands, at least one hand, tied behind our back, and can't do all we want. My understanding of this is quite remarkable, though, how much I have managed to make of it as the highest. The minister was on the subject. Although my roots lie in the country, in the Tahlftir, I must be a member of the capital area, wondering how this transport program will benefit the inhabitants of the capital area, even though it may seem boring to discuss such matters as these from the ideals because I think that it may lead us astray at times. But I've been thinking about the last few days whether it might be reasonable for the future to have a dual transport program, i.e. to implement a transport programme, at least in the following years, which would be especially for the capital area and then for other parts of the country to travel. The reason for this is because the conditions in the capital area have become a source of joy. The inhabitants of this city and those attending the home of the capital area cannot be expected to accept the situation today. This has begun to reduce the quality of life in the southwest corner. A lack of quality of life is the need to spend more and more time every day in getting to and from work. It's time taken from family, time taken from hobbies, etc. The situation in transport is a question of the quality of life of those living here in the most urban area. But it's also environmental. I would like to draw attention to the fact that transport in the capital area is environmentally important. That humans are not forced to wait for hours in line, on lights, in traffic jams that are created because their transport activities do not stop the traffic they are supposed to do. So I think it's at least worth considering whether to start a special job in making an independent transport program for the capital area. Now it is true that we look forward to making a significant investment in the wood. The number of transports, such as the education system, is extremely important, and the health system is not to be forgotten. I've kept it up here in a speech chair, and I've been living on the data of others and my wiser men, that we have an abundance of 500 billion for the next ten years at least It's just the way it is to get to our tails. Then there is no consideration for what we need to do when it comes to new investors. That may be a total of 700 billion that we look forward to in ten years, 70 billion a year. Of course, much of it is in transportation. At the same time we've been raising only the need for investments, we've had tremendous success in reducing the debt of state funds. We have, in effect, achieved wonderful results. By the end of the next year, the State's debt will be 670 billion lower than when it was highest in 2012. It has been said that government funds have saved themselves on interest and money costs, compared with the cost of 2012, about 138 billion at this time. This is about 30% higher than is suggested to protect the road in the next five years. It is important that we provide a powerful transport system. It is not just a matter of quality of life or the standard of living in the public but of professional competitiveness. That is why we need to get involved in such activities. Here people have been wondering how we can finance the projects we know to attack, and faster than this one's suggested. Then, first and foremost, humans have stopped paying dues. In itself, I like the idea that men are paying for what they use. In this regard, it is wise to introduce road charges to some extent, even to the whole. But such discussions must also take into account that we already place considerable spells on car owners. As a result, the decision to pay a price must be reflected in reevaluating all driving remuneration and taxation systems. I know that work has already begun. I don't think we can break this two out of context. I'm also on the same level as my partner, OK? paritaprevir Bot Björn Einarsson, when I say: Wait, before I begin to consider adding spells to the public, I want answers to the question of whether we properly use the property of the state. Is it that way, and are we all convinced here in this hall that we are making the best use of the state's property so that their innovation has the most positive effect on the everyday life and the standard of the public? I don't think so. I think we're going to improve the public's standard of living more by e.g. To release money bound in the financial system, I'm not talking about at Leifsson's Air Station. I wish that when people start to consider taking up a road fee, they would look at the financial account of the state's funds and wonder if it's not wise and right for us to go into changing the property of the State, including the U.S.A. Leifs son of Erik, at a misdirected assembly here at the capital area, or part of our property in a Icelandic financial system in two ways off the capital. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u60	A respectable president. We'll discuss one of the more important programs that will be discussed here, a transport plan. I'd like to start by wishing to the highest. A secretary of transportation is happy to submit this strategy. I also like to see that in this program, as well as in the other schedules that we work with, you look for longer. I think it's very important. We have long discussed the importance of looking ahead. That is why it is good to see these two plans, one until 2023 and the other until 2033. All of us agree on the importance of transport repairs on this island and on the importance of the country's construction of transport. These are the shallows. Most of the people here have taken part in a study of transportation plans have looked a little into their district, and I can't let you down by not doing the same. Then I'd like to recall, sir, a respectable president, that I have asked a question to the highest level. A secretary of transportation who went out to request analysis of the budget that had been used for transportation in the past ten years. I asked for it to be printed on the price of today so that it was comparable and that it would be measured by votes. I received an answer on April 18th. on deck. 782. Now I'm just looking at new projects, but the answer also revealed information about flying projects, and there were maintenance teams in there. When the new recruits arrived, they were not cut down on the district, but most were successful. I'd like to mention this here, that in the last ten years, if I take a tunnel in that discussion, 20% of the total new budget on road transport, 11% to the southwestern district, 5% to the city of Reykjavík, 29% to the northwestern district, and 34% to the Northeast. So this is 16% of the area where 70% of the population lives, and 90% of all tourists who visit the country also pass through the capital area. I wonder if we don't have to think about this approach a little. I noticed why. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, who was put in front of me, mentioned if we would need to start looking at a special transport program for the capital area. I don't know if that's the way, but I wish at least. The Environment and Transport Committee will discuss these terms only when they implement the transport programme. To say this, I'm also going to say that maybe such a comparison isn't always fair. It is not that I, who live in the capital area, do not want money to go to the construction of transport workers in the country. I think it was just as important to me as the people of the country. Similarly, I think it is of great importance to the inhabitants of the country that the funds go to the transport fortress here in the capital area, since all of us belong to this capital. I think there's good reason to watch these shows. Then I'd like to ask a minister to respond only to this in his second speech how men have approached the plans SSH. Today, SSH, or the organization of rural society in the capital area, has done extensive traffic analysis in cooperation with the Department of Transport and the Department of Transport, and has offered suggestions on how to deal with it. We're talking about paying for traffic with light controls, which is a relatively cheap way. I see that it is mentioned in this program, the funds are put into the payment of traffic here in the capital area. There's more to that. It's also being done in the root system. I'm sorry to see that they're the majority of the long-term programs at the late stage of this strategy, and perhaps in ways that we may not be able to finance them. Then I'd like to mention that in these rural programmes in the capital area - which I'd like to say is the transpolitical work of all members of the community and all groups that have come to regional levels in these rural communities and form the Regional Organizational Committee of the capital - both important infrastructure and the growth of public relations by the city line. It saddens me that in this process of transportation, we are not being addressed more closely. I'd appreciate it if it was the highest. A minister may respond to this in his later speech. A respectable president. Is this all the time I've got?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u61	This is all the time the senator has.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u62	I was going to review a lot more shows. If I try to get this together a little, I think it's very important, when we look at the capital area especially, to have good cooperation with the rural communities here in the capital area. They've put quite a lot of work into these plans. It is based on population forecasts and the regional structure of the capital area. To the year 2040, it is estimated that this is the capital area where some 70,000 people are increased. The second part of the plan extends to 2033. It is not as if we are looking to the future, looking at what assignment, challenging, or dealing with the road system in the capital area today, but with an even greater problem. I'd also like to hear a little bit more from the Secretary on the city line. It has been described as a high - quality public transportation system, but it is no more complicated than a car that drives a special space. We're not talking about trains on the tea. We are not referring to anything like what we see in many cities around us. We're actually just talking about a bus that drives in a special space. It is more practical to run public transport in special space, then less cost to wait at lights and the like. Here, funds are placed in public transportation and are the goals to be desired. One of the teams mentioned is the growth of public transport and the use of transport sharing systems that I consider very important. I'd like to encourage the highest, too. Ministers to the future, how Iceland can be exemplary in accepting the development of transportation, i.e. self-sustaining cars. When you look to the first part of the plan, I think we're talking about the famous billion when it comes to public transportation in the capital area. I now use the wording ▪ The famous billion, but when this agreement was made at the time, there were always talking about a billion people. In fact, it never became a billion by then. Now I see according to this plan, it's just over a billion, that's a plan for the next few years. However, according to the contract made with the rural communities here in the capital area, this sum was always expected to change, and it was used in terms of the expense of an increase in oil prices and salary prices. I think there is a reason why the committee would specifically agree whether these numbers need not simply be higher, so that the state could handle the agreements it has already made in this regard. I also think we need to look for even more investments in these matters. We have recently seen the government's ambitious plan when it comes to climate. I think we all agree on the importance of energy exchange in transport and in offering better public transportation. It creates opportunities, and others may choose to follow the way that is very environmental. [[The president calls.]] Now, time has passed, a respectable president. He's obviously way too short to discuss such a big, important piece of paper.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u63	Mr. President. Thank you for letting me in. Thank you. paritaprevir For extensive speech, the book of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir's Enthusiasm I know, and I realize that the speech would have been much longer and much better if she had had more time, but that's just the way it is, we sometimes have to limit ourselves. The Senator and I have often agreed on transport in the capital area and in what way traffic flows could be improved, etc., not only in order to get everyone on public transportation or other travel routes, but also in order to improve driving opportunities for those who have to drive on private vehicles for some reason. What I wanted, however, was the senator to talk to me only in the previous answer to another question, i.e. Whether the senator sees that the rural areas in the capital area should, either by direct or individually, consider the possibility in cooperation with the Department of Transport and Regional Management for further development by financing a part of the project to the State, then at late levels, with the financial resources needed, e.g. This is urgent projects, such as the good deck in Garða or Eaglenes Road in Kopavogi, which I know at the back. A senator who is in the same district as I am is deeply concerned about being in the late stages of the strategy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u64	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this. I agree with that. I'm really worried that these important projects are in the late stages. Let us also see that these projects have become really necessary today, not talking about Eaglenes Road, and in fact the park town as well as what needs to be done in Hafnarfjörður. Then, too, we will be looking into the future when we become even more numerous. I'm just a little worried it's in the second stages. I'm a little into the ideas that local government leaders have mentioned to us in the Garden Town. They want to perform some kind of experimente, i.e. There are some types of projects and cooperations with the State so that this can be financed or found some way to finance the project. I agree with that. I think we should look outside the box in these topics. Thank you. A senator for the answer as well. There was one thing I could not mention in my talk, the funds that go on a bicycle path. I'm surprised I thought of it when it happened. A senator came up here. Sure, there's money going on a bicycle path. We've been doing that for the last year. I think it's a reason to mention it here, because it's not a doll job. You see, at times people have said, "Yes, yes, put something in a bicycle path. " But this is a real trip to the capital area. As we look to the future, more and more people will choose to take advantage of a variety of traveling methods. That is why it is so important that we watch the long - term variety of transport programs. There are some who will always be on their own truck. We must make sure of the roads and insurrection when it comes to them. But there are others who choose to ride or walk and still others who choose to use public transportation. I think it's our job to make sure that the supply is in place, because with the right combination of these volunteers, we're more effective in the flow, in safety, and especially in the climate. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u65	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answers. And, yes, the senator was able to touch the bicycle cord in my heart, it was beautiful. But as the senator rightly put it, bicycle riding and biking are no dolling missions. It's a real transportation strategy, and although many percent of the time they're still running out of wheels, it's just some people. On the other hand, I would like to speak to the senator about a project that I mentioned only in my talk earlier, i.e. Emulsion times, that governments, even communities and the state in cooperation, and in cooperation with government agencies and such likes, take it up seriously to ensure that the opening times and hours of work are cut to a greater degree than now so that our road system and transport network, to form in the capital area, will be more useful. It will be longer for significant use, but not always for a dam between eight and nine or seven and nine and four and six around the afternoon. There are tests as far as I can tell from this phenomenon. This can be used, not only to improve traffic, but also to improve air quality in the capital area, so that it is not, as some members mentioned earlier today, thousands of automobiles in recesses for hours, which are not good for the atmosphere, although the problem will naturally improve when all of us are on electric vehicles. But that's further.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u66	A respectable president. I've usually tried to be a rather positive person when it comes to many matters, but I'm just going to admit that I've given up the debate on emulsion time. We've taken that discussion here in the capital area for decades, and I feel that we either did not succeed or we just reached as far as we possibly can. I specifically mention this, since I know a lot about bus management, since it has been done regularly to ask for the university, e.g. Starting at different times. I think it's done. I think the Landsspike is just such an institution that it's very difficult to do this. I see that this is mentioned in the transport program, and I have reason to consider it, even though I have come to this opinion and half have given up. Then I'd like to mention something else that I think is even more important, that is, we're distributing employment companies and institutions around the capital area, that we don't collect all the biggest businesses in the western tip of the capital area. It's totally ridiculous. Of course, that means that everyone enters this area at a certain time, which is now a little long, it's kind of from seven to thirty now, and then back the second part. This has also been the case with local government in the capital area repeatedly, but it seems that we have relatively few success in this discussion. Then I'm going to mention again what I came in here through the city line. Simply put, rural authorities in the capital area have come to realize that they need to build up some infrastructure that ensures that companies want to position themselves close to rooting. The experience, whether in Denmark, Oslo, or in other northern cities, is that the companies want to stay in good transport. For example, when a store is investing in wood, such as the special lane for the city line bus, it is more likely that the companies and institutions of the state will also be ready to spread over the capital area. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And that's how we use it better in both directions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u67	A respectable president. We're here to discuss the welfare issues of number one, transportation. I think it is quite clear that no matter what transport it is to improve society, to create economic growth, to increase employment areas, to improve business conditions, to increase the possibility of moving safely between positions. I got an answer a few years ago from the health minister. It even came to pass. ... tothatthe total cost of every year of Icelandic society due to traffic accidents is about 50 billion. The same figure was published by the same agency today, that it was the community's average cost of traffic accidents. I gave another outstanding example during the days as to how much this matter was of economic importance, i.e. If we didn't have a major transportation agent like Keflavour Airport, how many tourists would be in Iceland today? Who would have helped us to rebuild after the terrible events of the year? That's a long way to count. That's why it's important. We'll talk a lot about community partnerships, government management, stuff like that. How will we do so without transportation? I think transportation is the main premise. That's what we hear all over the country: Have good infrastructure and good transportation, then let's take care of the population and the countryside around the country, then we can save ourselves, build up, and create greater well-being in this society. In this hall, we talk a lot about the need for extra money for law enforcement, health care, and social security, the need for more and more money and the many who need it. That's how it's gonna stay. But we can only reduce this need, not meet it, but take it out of it and perhaps stop the need just by having strong and safe transport. That's extremely important. Yet, despite the fact that all of this is known, there is no more money than there is in the transport program and financial program that the entire Council is involved. They just don't put more money on meeting the existing need. I'm sorry. We see, however, that there is not much patience in the community in waiting for these vital means of transportation, these necessary projects. Regarding the Cheflavour Airport, we learn that there are about 10 million passengers there each year, and with each additional jet leaving Cheflavík, the transport capacity is increasing. We're bringing more fish, more goods from the country and more with the planes. There's an increase in fracas. It only increases every year, every year, every year, staff, direct work at the Chefavour Airport, about 600 people. In the case of a road built on a section of between five and six thousand people to find out about this construction. Through him all these people, all these goods, and all these employees, and there's twenty-some thousand of them built. On the average, however, about 17,000 automobiles per day pass on the side of the road that carries 5,000 to 66,000 cars a day. We can only see that we cannot wait 15 years for the restoration. There is no patience. It's just not realistic. When did the increase I just described happen? It probably started in 2013. Since then, the increase has been greatest. That's five years. This plan goes to five years. How will this be after the next five years, which begins to build and finish this road? We can take an example like this all around the country. The number of tourists, the increase in population in the South and the number of smokers and Western countries. It has become so expensive to build and buy houses in the capital area that everyone is moving into the collar companies. In these areas, there has been a tremendous increase in the traffic along with tourism and increasing employment, increased freight transport, and so forth. This summer, however, a great deal of effort was required to close the elf bridge for a few days because of the maintenance process. Do we have time to wait 15 years for a new bridge? I don't think so. Do you think that the Westerners believe they have time to wait for a nice road to cross the Doubndish when the tunnel is finished? This is how I could go on for a long time, and now I'm just talking about transportation. That's where I'm going to talk about all the public transportation, whether on land, in the air, or on the sea. All the harbors. Our largest exposé has long been a fishing route. Somewhere, the power has to come to shore. It's all there is to it. Seaguards, the trips itself, the funding, everything in this system. There are so many things that are vital to this support, transportation, and so important to us. I think we really need to think some other way. I think that this assignment I'm describing here can be very effective, reacting to the anxious care of these matters. If so, we would have to add 101⁄215 billion a year to our new projects. I don't see that we have a priority here. We have to think of other ways, and we need to finance the building. It's hard, and I don't think we're going to make it just with this transport plan. I encourage Congress to accompany us on this project, and hopefully we can have a good conversation about it on the environment and transport committee. As we talked, only in the middle of the night. I've got senators before me, and there's some way of working on the great amount of traffic charm. It may be possible to delay the time when school starts in the morning and so on. It is possible to take less measures to increase the safety of traffic, and it has been successfully done, as if my priorities were high, such as financing a traffic security program that will establish the police and other issues of the transport program. By increasing police visible surveillance, traffic accidents can be reduced, and by making minor changes with a wide range of pathways, a law model, a set of spills, and a curve, and a lower maximum rate. There's a lot of ways. We need all of this, we need to do all of this. What time does it take to do the big work? Now there are population growths and more tourists. We need to think big. There's two things to go together, and that's how we have to deal with it. I think our responsibility is high in these things, dealing with this big welfare problem, finding solutions, making peace, getting out of political barriers, and uniting to find some practical way, whether through reimbursement or other funding, to take a bigger step in transportation. It's so important for traffic security, which I believe is supposed to be number one, two and three. I was just talking about money here. It is so difficult to place some number, or to appreciate emotion, and everything else around the tragedy of traffic accidents. About 200 people die or get seriously injured every year, and some 1,000 to 1,500 people are caught in traffic accidents. You can imagine the public defense situation in traffic. So we need to act. It is possible to continue talking about transportation for a long time. [[The president calls.]] A lot more than 10 minutes. But I hope we have a good conversation about this important project.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-10-17.u68	Mr. President. We'll talk about a transport plan until the next five years. It was observed in the highest range. Of course, it is very good. More money is provided to form in the Revenge Fund, which has long been a great worldwide need. No doubt there is still a greater need for flying money to maintain the airports in the country and strengthen the Kingdom - magnitude airports. But it is not easy to see that the transport program is greatly improved. Whatever happens to the ideas of the Minister and others involved, I'm willing to consider it with a positive attitude, but I'd like to see an analysis of those ideas before I expressed it much more. We know that over the years high traffic costs have been taken and those using the roads of the country. That money has been far from there for the construction of road transports in the country. There's a relatively small amount of stuff going on. Road transport, in effect, belongs to the government the large sums that have been taken off the road over the years, whether it is a fuel charge, an oil charge, a mile tax, or anything. If I look only at my district, the Norwegian-West District, there's a lot of weight on the bill. Surely, it is very disgruntled about Daringrims and the roads around the new Animal Straits that this project should not be offered until it is ready for animal soils. I understand it's time to make a 2024 blowout. I don't think it's acceptable to drag it this long. The animal tunnel is built by animals and has to be used for the large investments it provides. It is very important to make good use of the investment as well as for transport between the southern and northern Westfjords to go along and as soon as possible, because huge amounts of money are making transport improvements in that area. Job life needs it, and all communication is needed. We have put a medical facility under one hat and unite with the county office and the sheriff's office and all of that and therefore it is not advisable to pass between the completion of the tunnel and to remain in the neck of a bottle until it can complete the development of a full - blown space between areas. With regard to circuits around the country, there is a very high proportion of malarways that connect the country. Then I'd like to mention places like in West Hunsa County, the Waternes, where schoolchildren have to go every day, 50 to 60 miles on a malartic road, and come home seasick after being shaken on roads that are not acceptable. After the rise of the tourist current in the region, roads are to be viewed as disaster. Then there are forces on the western coast, such as the Forest Coast Road. There are maladies that people regularly go through to attend work and school. I understand that every year about 900 million people are on the road. At a district week, the talk was very talkable, and it showed that it would take a minimum of 1.5 billion people to build them something that would be needed to build up. They looked very hard to get the way that I know I've started working at the Road Building, about one and a half width, and thus speed up constructions on roads that are far too open to people in the area, neither for the local people, nor for the increased stream of tourists around the country. The road to the blessed Gufldal forces is an everlasting centenarian. You're absolutely right at the highest. The transport minister that in a transport program, the West are put in first place and should be respected. The national capital area also considers safety issues, and it is also to be respected. But the debate over the final road in the Gufu Valley has to stop. Although the plan is expected to remind me of the potential for a new road, we do not know whether it will be, or not, because there are eternal issues, no ultimate situation has yet been found, and the possibility of a new road site is still being considered instead of going through Chefwood. The locals don't agree. This continues to push into the system. I am deeply concerned about how the situation will take place and how you will be able to take advantage of the large amount of money planned to complete a 60 - road operation. But somehow, we have to get on with it, whatever we have to do. I haven't been impressed with the legal process, but my patience is on that level, and I admit it here, and now from the speaker's chair. People living in this area need to be able to use transportation to attend services in the capital area as well as extensive transport and heavy transport around the region, so it is not acceptable to be what it is, hardly made during the winter, and in the summer often a piece of dirt. As I said in the beginning, there are some good things in a transport plan. As for public transportation, in my district of district of district last week, it was out of control for all local authorities that they wanted to continue to build powerful public transport in their territory. Contract agreements between national parties and the Road Type are free for years. More funding is requested to support continued intensive public transportation in the area. Everyone wants to continue that course, thinks it's very important. A good review of what is needed for this to work, as well as to strengthen the communities so that they do not have to compete with the private sector, regardless of how much they can look at to strengthen the factor that has been involved in certain problems in many areas. I have hopes that there will be a review of various aspects of the transport program on the Committee. I also mention the Forest Coast and stress that it will begin sooner than expected in a different plan.
