ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-25-10.u1	Mr. President. The main currents in this country are glaciers, as everyone knows. There will be tremendous fluctuations in the flow. They're avalanches, sudden rains, glaciers. They can be small and medium - sized, some 1,000 to 60,000 cubic feet per second, or three to 15 years. They can be large, 50:00,200,000 cubic feet per second, or 15 to 70 times the flow of Alpha wounds, including the old Katla. We have thus planned flood control. It is for loading and gardening, and it is for the Kingdom's land - healing projects. The land transplant has received 70 billion. K. stuck every year, not for ten years. These are the applications that the Agency does or does on the part of a project that is self-employed. There is now a list of over 70 projects, and most of them are in the South. The cost is 360 million. K. When you watch this, you ask: "What about defenses against nature? Clearly, this is both a fragment of land and a threat to habitats and to other living things. Clearly, it's time to change. In Iceland, defenses against nature are an important part of what nature is like. We have big volcanoes. I don't need to mention those that are in a precipitous phase under a volcanic eruption. These eruptions are usually accompanied by a very large glacier race. So it is very important to enter an analysis and develop some kind of operation plan. I intend to prepare a council case on that subject and report at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-25-10.u2	Mr. President. A lot has been discussed with young people and for good reason. Both girls and boys have increasingly had many mental disorders, anxiety, depression, and self - injury. The trend in this country is similar to that in other places, as we have seen in the media. To make things right, you are working hard to improve your mental - health activities, including some of them. by offering mental - health services. Next year's budget is 650 million. K. to promote national health care, both in order to increase the mental health and mental status of psychologists. At the end of 2019, access is aimed at 90% of the health - care programs in the management of most common mental disorders, such as depression, anxiety and postmortem stress, on 90% of the health - care centres of the government. It is in harmony with our left green policy to promote health care services as our first stop. The figures show an increasing attendance at health care services, with a further increase in donations of 200 million. K. Today, for children up to 18 years of age at all the medical centres of the capital and adult psychologists, there are now six centres to the health care of the capital area. Psychologists manage to evaluate, analyze and treat child-specific emotional and behavioural problems, provide parents with advice and develop a team around a child, including with the presence of social services, schools, and other institutions involved in the child's affairs, the need for this. To date, there has been a lack of psychological services for people over 18 years of age, including changes in the number and condition of people. group treatments for mental behavioural treatments are provided. The objective is that everyone can attend a psychological service that is close to the home and that is a key health care facility. It is important to interrupt early before the problem becomes more serious. The future vision is not separating mental health from general health, i.e. That in basic health care, there is nothing else that we need to point to in case of mental distress.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-25-10.u3	A respectable president. I was at a meeting this morning at the UCLU for the position of children and the great and unselfish battles that the employees work every day for our children, cooperate with the Children's agent, with the Children's happy and everyone. It's an amazing force and work they do. They ask for our support from the generals. It is for us to create a global system of assistance where possible so that our children can enjoy the rights given to them by the United Nations Children's Covenant. It is not enough that the terms of the Law, that the covenant, must be carried out, and there is a marvelous lack. When I heard of a UNICEF report in January 2016, a group of people came into existence. This is the last report we have received and they usually publish a new report every three years. This report was actually based on two factors, especially on the child's postwar status. We are expecting a new report in January 2019. We cannot help but be thankful for the hard work involved in trying to strengthen our children and meet them wherever they live. The fact is, though, that they are discriminated against. It is natural at the command of the government that threw certain responsibilities into the arms of rural society at its time, elementary schools, and other rural communities, which were not available but lost a lot of weight when the salathan exodus led to the removal of the ships and thus the main daisies, which were the good wages of the sailors who lived there. As a result, these communities are left with wounds and therefore with their children. I say, let's get together, wherever we stand, and let this be one of the issues that concern us all.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-25-10.u4	Mr. President. I'd like to call attention to the proposal of the United States that was distributed here yesterday and is on the subject of children. In the United States, we feel that there will be an urgent need for time and a well - funded plan to improve the welfare and well-being of children in this country. We stress prevention, defense against domestic violence, sexual abuse, and the improved status of children of immigrants, children with developmental anomalies, and children with long - suffering. In addition, family - oriented workplaces, shorter work weeks, longer maternity reserves, and better child - care benefits are very important to Icelandic children. We want to put children's issues first, and we don't want any of them to get out of the way. In the Parliamentary arrangement, the government is appointed to implement a timed and funded operation plan for the year 2019,2022 to strengthen the position of children and young people and their families in this country. Actions include: to the right of children as defined in the United Nations Children's Convention of Children, the Council of Ministers of the European Parliament, from 2011 to Member States on child rights and child-friendly social services for children and families and the European Parliament on protecting children from sexual abuse and sexual abuse. Also, the children's emissary reports since 2017 were presented for the most important concern, along with the recent findings of the agent. We recommend harmonization and follow-up for the sake of children and children's families. The plan counts for a total of 49 operations, and I wonder what it is. Councilmen, media, and others who want to promote the better interests of children in order to learn the suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-25-10.u5	Mr. President. What a privilege it is to live at a time in which we are living today! Worldwide, relationships with friends and family members have seldom been easier, as can be said of all kinds of services and access to them. We can order goods and services almost anywhere that is simply through our phones and computers. Similarly, this means increasing freedom when it comes to living, or should at least do so, as there are many digital services growing and increasing trade and knowledge. I'd like to draw the attention of the United States Congress and hopefully more people to the fact that a network service works in both directions. It is not a law of nature that workers outside the capital area need to be reduced when moving services to the Internet. Rather, it is appropriate to take advantage of the opportunity and suggest that non - capital facilities and institutions should be used in order to serve the whole country rather than to supply new institutions in Reykjavík, which are even to be done in the same way that agencies outside the capital area now do. This is exactly what we are facing at the council with a suggestion for the establishment of the immigrant counseling agency. We have examples of organizations that have shown us that this is so easily done and that it produces good results. One of the best examples is a taxpayer, who has been built up in different places as a service so far as the whole country. I can give you other examples, such as the Environment Agency, National Registry and the Weather Service. Mr. President. I challenge it. My fellow councilmen remember in their work, whether in a financial or proposal, that today many projects can be carried out anywhere in the country and in the whole country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-25-10.u6	A respectable president. Last week, there was a 13 - year conference of Congress on Arctic, Finland. I would like to review only that conference, international work, and the cost involved. International witnessing is a tremendous opportunity for Iceland to influence world affairs. In this context, we can say that Klepps Road 22 is Iceland, in the sense of how little Klepps Road 22 is compared to Iceland all over the world. Iceland is about 0.005%, or even less, of the whole world. An example of the effectiveness of Iceland and the reason for attending was shown at the conference. After the chairman of the Synod held his presentation, discussing their difficulties in maintaining their language, I had the idea of making a suggestion for the cooperation of the Arctic nations in grammatical technology. The suggestion was offered two hours later, and later the same day, he agreed. This is a clear example of the importance of sharing in international work, a clear example of how a small number, Kuppst 22, can have an effect. Our experience in grammar at the council was influenced by the work of the Northern Parliament. While I was in Finland, however, discussions about the high cost of that worldwide work arose. It is true, but our role as members of the Parliament is to make the work valuable for our country and nation. If we do not take advantage of this opportunity, there is, of course, no point in participating.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-25-10.u7	A respectable president. I had my first meeting yesterday, and it's clear what's wrong. Today, members of the congregation are focused on a lack of trust, trust, or trust. It may not be surprising. The confidence in politicians is at the lowest in history. In our neighboring countries, ministers resign because they carried a government phone to a foreign country without reporting it or because they had not paid the radio bill there. On the other hand, in this country it seems that national elected representatives can drive 36 times around the country at the expense of taxpayers, arrange a national meeting that covers 100% of the cost, find out to break a law against a judge's order without so much to apologize. Don't get me wrong, but I don't expect group lectures after my talk, but that's not part of it. What I'm calling in, however, is that we take responsibility for our office. That responsibility can take on many forms, whether by debunction or by confessing a mistake and showing repentance. However, the concept of responsibility seems to have taken quite a special form. Here the tradition of simply turning its back into the wind and waiting quietly until the wind submerges. But the public wants to see an elected representative suffer the same responsibility that he himself has to do in his own business, and a renewed commission is not a whitewash. It shows a loss of confidence in the Council, the Lawgiver himself who puts the rules here, diminishing confidence that ultimately leads to a loss of confidence in the rules we try to set here. If we really want to restore the confidence of the people at the General and the executives, we need to make a different decision. Only when we begin to show proper respect for our work and position can we begin to call for trust. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-25-10.u8	A respectable president. By the time I sat at the council in 2013, a local senator, Birgitta Jónsdóttir, had suggested that meeting laws here be written. Because it was because it seems that meeting laws, understanding, and memory of people differ, and cheating is supported by means of the related routes. The solution is obvious and simple, but it is to write down decisions and agree with them so that political opposers do not have to rely on one another in order to remember and understand things in the same way that they do not wish to remember and understand in the same way. In view of this, Porta's council sent a letter to the president along with a copy to the council classes, which is as follows, to the president's permission: ▪ During discussions at a meeting of prime committees and meeting with the presidents, there have been many cases of approval of the council groups or members of the council. A recent example is intended to agree on a reduced discussion period on the secretary's reports. On Monday, September 24, 2019, we agreed on the following resolution at a council meeting: ▪ Congress party members and party president of Pirata are presented in writing to the President of the Generals, while others are not available at all. The above resolutions of Porta's party will be announced to the President of the Generals here, and this will be written on behalf of Porta's members. paritaprevir Mogensen Morensen. To make it clear, this isn't a proposal for a discussion. It's a decision made by the Congress of Pirata. We do not control the way things are done here, but we do control what we agree with. The House of Pirata will no longer sit under the sermons of others as to what to have approved or when to have been approved. It must simply be available in case of consent. Otherwise, the president may know that there is no agreement and that the council may well make comments or protests that the president believes they have a verbal agreement. So here we are.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-25-10.u9	A respectable president. I'd like to make the subject of the state radio only to be discussed and planned by the minister of education and culture to reduce the Agency's income by at least. 5,60 million without realizing how it will be improved, although it is claimed to be done. In this regard, I would like to refer specifically to the careful media report on the topic of business, which is published in the past month and can be accessed to the Commission's website, which carefully reviews the suggestions of the previous committee on these issues and resists the use of a commercial market. It may be possible to reduce the activities of The Kingdom Radio on Advertising, but I'd like to let myself warn that, despite the loudness of the panels, fanatics with strange perimeters are allowed to operate here. I remind you that much of the country's population wants a powerful national radio with a simple and varied process and, in particular, VG voters who did not choose the category to promote national meetings of the Independence Party. It is urgent to strengthen the private media, but it will not be done by weakening the Kingdom News. The general media activity in many countries is out of the changing environment in the wake of a technological revolution that has caused people to pursue educational and entertainment in social media, where material is even targeted in an attempt to mislead us into seeing it. In such times, it will not be enough to stress the importance of having a multicenter of calmness and careful action on the current issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-25-10.u10	A respectable president. It must be a serious matter if wrong information appears on the Generals website, not alone, but many false information. What I'm talking about here is the Nuuk tour. The first false information there is that there is only one member of a welfare committee. It's two from a welfare committee. Then they say, "There's only one hotel in Nuuk." - There's not only one hotel in Nuuk. Then I was accused of accusing the council staff that they had chosen this hotel. - No. It is stated on the website that Copenhagen's branch office did so. Then they say that one member of the Senate spent an extra day in Nuuk. That's right, but so is the employee. National Council meetings are five times a year, costing 17 million, they say. There are 600 million at the Council of Northern Ireland in Copenhagen. All I was asking was, "Is this really necessary? We can take the example given in an article in the Morning Press, another of which is very serious, that the information published in Science for the weekend is wrong. This morning's newspaper reports a trip to meet the United Nations. There's four to go. But the report also says that two left last year. If two were good last year, why don't two do the job this year? That's what I'm asking you. We've got another dozen committees, and that's a lot of money. But when the issue changes, e.g. that microorganisms are always referred to as a limited wealth of state. Then someone has come up and said: " The money of the kingdom is limited, and we are to treat them well on foreign committees and other things. We're supposed to reevaluate the cost every year. Doesn't that make any difference? Or is there anything else? Isn't it a serious matter, Mr. President, that at the Generals web, the information is not correct? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-25-10.u11	Mr. President. The British have decided to remove the European Union. In fact, they did so on June 26, 2016, by national law. May May, British prime minister, activated over 50 st. of the Lisbon Convention, March 29, 2017. Thus began in a formal manner the legal outing procedure in European Union regulations. That process will be completed only on Friday, March 29, 2019 C.E. I can give you a clock, too, if you want to. The British themselves have legalized that day in their own laws. It is safe to say that the chances of contracts being reached in time are diminishing, as the British and the European Union's ideas on how to relate to a relationship should be made after the British stop in the European Union in sharp contrast. The British seem to want to enjoy the cooperation of the European Union in which they please but refuse to accept the duties of cooperation within the European Union. It seems here that the British government wants to own both the cake and eat. The Bgret process has also affected local political discussions, and in some camps there's no sense of superiority. V.E.G. The Minister of Foreign Minister Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson spoke two days ago at the U.S.R., with permission of the president: Perhaps when we look at it, the situation will be higher for us Icelanders. We must conclude that we cannot be in the European Union at all. Because all the things that have been said about going out is easy if we don't like it, that's argument that no one can use again. It's an act of great magnitude. Interpretation and analysis highest. A minister is completely out of his mind. Of course you can walk out of the European Union. The British will unless the British people choose to act. [[The president calls.]] The problem of the British government is not that the British government cannot get out; the problem is that it cannot accept the effect of an exit will have on British society, and that is where the dog is buried. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-25-10.u12	I want to pray. Senators, watch out for deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-25-10.u13	Mr. President. It will not be avoided to mention it here from this talk chair how emotionally Icellands treat their employees these days, flight attendants and flight attendants, a profession known for a state of service and a great position in which to serve. The message from the management board is simple: Either you have a full - time job or you get fired. You have four days to answer. The so - called human resources specialists of the company have probably never heard of family living, a flexible labour market, and an important link between satisfaction and production. Putting employees who have stuck with the company for years for the most benefit in this way is preventative. Let us not forget that the company itself has long requested that flight attendants and flight attendants take part of a job in times of trouble to prevent mass launch and thus ensure that knowledge and experience do not go unnoticed by society. By then the workers had invited and had become involved, as they were so often before. When there's trouble, attack the park where it's lowest. However, would it not be possible to manipulate the management and reduce money money? Don't take over your bag and take responsibility for mismanagement decisions. No, now it's women and young children who are way too expensive for the company. They should be the right angle of which the men of the bridge with all their management skills have sailed away with the wrong decision in a fierce competition for the airport. For this, conscientious women must pay. The sources are 99% women. The case, Mr. President, is the approach of the misaligned male rulers to the female class.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-25-10.u14	A respectable president. Do members of Parliament generally realize that 30% of the population in Iceland has 75% energy estimates or more young people in their 40's? This share is twice as high as in the rest of the North countries, with a ratio of 14◯16%. The incidence of disability in Iceland, with over 75% energy estimates, is now 1,200,1800 per year. In 2016, the incidence of disability for the first time exceeded the natural growth in the labour market. The incidence is highest, the increase is greatest, among young men aged 203/430 years because of mental disorders and young women aged 30 to 40 years due to musculoskeletal problems. I'm not talking about this as an economic problem, although it's predictable according to new numbers from KPMG introduced on a financial committee the other day that disability will remain 23,000 or so after ten years and the cost double. No, I'm talking about this from a human viewpoint. There's something wrong with the system that is stimulating the registration of disability, compared to the system in the North countries, and is discouraging for people to come back. There's something in the system that we have to fix, the people for our own sake, so we are not judging young people, young men and young women, for permanent and possibly lifelong disability. We have to fix the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-25-10.u15	V.E.G. President. Yesterday, the one represented by one of the campaign priorities of the State's tenant policy tournament in particular for farms. This case is now presented for the fourth time. The aim of the proposal is, in particular, that agricultural issues are guided by the shape of the government's public policy and that the policy ensures the ability of people to start farming. Similarly, natural protection and the development of tourist areas need to be considered, as well as the type of land that belongs to the State and therefore which areas are suitable for government or private living. Many lands owned by the State have a unique position on nature, history, and culture, but most farms and parts of the earth are under the supervision of the institutions of the State or its inhabitants who use them for rent - price purposes. The Ministry of Economics has proposed a major aspect of a new tenant policy based on the assessment of the Economic Institute. It was noted in a special discussion here last year that there is a review of the comments received and that the Ministry's counseling team is being assisted by the contribution of the final proposal. All I can see is that men think it's urgent, but I haven't seen much of the suggestions. There has been some movement in these matters, but the matter is urgent, since too many ground have gone out or gone for it. It weakens the scattered regions and the fact that the state has many earths to rule, I view it as an opportunity to strengthen communities and communities. The responsibilities of the Kingdom are many interest issues for neighboring society, since when the earth goes desolate, it can disrupt a community structure that should be least disturbed. There were ideas in yesterday's discussions that could be handled effectively. These include factors such as whether this group is usually part of the Ministry of finance. Don't we need to revise the register system? How do we use the earth? Which soils of the Kingdom are to be held? Is the Kingdom to Have Earth? Is the Kingdom the Best farmer? Can farmers be more involved in land healing, and how? [[The president calls.]] There are many other factors, but all of us can agree that these matters need to be addressed quickly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-25-10.u16	Mr. President. It is part of the work of our senators that all members of the council appoint a spokesman for children, the person who works hard to meet the members of the community who work on child rights. We talked about the other day with an agent of children's rights, a state bath that is supposed to take part in the initiative and such matters as children's rights. Today, we met children and met UNICEF, who have the goal of working on the birth of the child's contract. Today, there is a United Nations Children's Court of Children, that is, to follow it, which has been introduced into the law, that they submit to the true and respected rights of the children. After going on that journey and talking to the leading members of the community who are working on child rights, it seems to me that there is a good space now to be created. It is creating a great deal of responsibility for child - protection and child - rights to be put first in the community. Today, the highest title is being acted by the Precinct. Minister of Ásmundur Einar Daðason. He used to be a welfare minister, but will be a social and child welfare minister. The minister's focus seems to be putting child protection first. That's good. Let us keep an eye on it and see how it really sounds. But this is a good sense, and the ones we talked to today are optimistic. Let's watch it. It's very interesting what they're doing with UNICEF. I encourage people to go to the Web site called Childfriendly Company. It discusses cooperation with rural society. The Akureyri is finished, Kopavgur is starting now, and they like how information technology is installed until they can do a job. But the goal is to have rural society work in an active way toward bringing up the rights of children, working on it on all grounds, working on it into the local financial structure, so it really happens. [[The president calls.]] There's room now. I hope that members of Congress are also aware of this and that we're putting this behind us. It's about time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-25-10.u17	V.E.G. President. Einar Darri was a very typical Icelandic teenager. He went well to school, was a lover of man, a friend of a friend, a friend of his friends. But he had one enemy, and the addiction caused him eventually to die by taking too much prescription medication. Today, it can be said that there is an epidemic in Iceland among young people about how to use prescription medicines. That's why it's time for us in here, for us to take up a discussion about this matter, to work together to find ways to stop it. That's why I'm very grateful. A health minister for taking such a discussion with us today. Darri's not unique, unfortunately. He's one of 29 or 30 youths who's been dying for this wow year. We've been burying young people every week for the rest of the year. It's annoying. So I asked three questions for the highest. Ministers who discuss what the government has done to stem the epidemic today. I know what it's like to say. The secretary has set up a regulations to limit the import of a prescription medicinal product, which is a very good and good decision. The question is, Who should enforce it? The customs department cannot, she's acquitted, and she has no power to take on privileges other than those she now deals with. Similarly, the police have to set their priorities because they are not equipped to carry out their assignments. What I'd like to say by that is that if we're going to take some of the advice that's very good, we're also going to have to make sure enough money comes along so that the good organizations I mentioned earlier, and others, can attack the root of the problem. I think I can claim that if the Minister would serve 2nd. practical suggestions for e.g. Hence, the institutions and others with regard to this matter would be greatly appreciated by members of the council. My third question involved a service contract at S.A. THE U.S.A. is one who has the longest experience in dealing with addictions and has had very good results in recent decades. Among other things, the U.S.A. has been able to employ a department that is specialized in the use of opioid addiction, which is just what we discuss. That is why I wanted a minister to see if a service contract with the U.S.A. would not necessarily be extended so that treatment of such a addiction will still be strong and more powerful in the UK than ever before. I'd also like to ask about recent information on shutting down treatment in Krysuvik. I think it's a very serious matter because it's the only safe place in Iceland where people who are addicted can stay for up to six months. If we can put it that way, the most difficult cases, the worst of them have been to get rid of this demon, get in there, get a solution, and have a new life. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. To see if she intends to use her means in any way in order to remain open, the minister of Cyrúsavík has arranged for the resolution to remain open. I once again say that I'm almost sure that a world of Congress would accept it if such a suggestion were made. This discussion was not made on the basis of what is being said here to point out someone or to try to leave someone with responsibility, since all of us are responsible for the case. Therefore, I feel that it is necessary and most desirable that we join now and take necessary steps to prevent the tragic development of this year. Young ones have the same thing with us, each of us, to have only one life.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-25-10.u18	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for requesting this special discussion. This is an extremely important subject that I felt was a good reason to respond as quickly as possible that we would take this discussion into the Senate Hall. Although we have all called this in unprepared queries, we get a little more space to discuss some of the factors. I'm gonna go straight to some questions. A candidate asking which health care secretary has taken because of the serious consequences of overdosage with prescription medicines. My answer is multiple. I'm going to try to explain to you the key measures taken to this end. First, I'd like to mention that at the beginning of this year, I appointed a group under Birgir son of Jakobsson, a present surgeon, to seek ways to cope with the abuse of mental and physical analgesics, but the staff returned their report on May 24, so. The report, in fact, says: that there are a wide variety of causes of drug use in this country and that, concomitant with high levels of circulating narcotics, there is an increased risk of abuse and over-use. The recommendation of the group primarily aims to limit the amount of addictive drugs in circulation and to support the good prescribing habits of physicians but also to improve monitoring. It also states that it is important that the public is informed of the risks associated with the incorrect use of these medicines. Nine teams are proposed by the task force at the same time to resist misuse and abuse without resisting the benefit of those patients who truly benefit from these medications. The initiative aims first to limit access, secondly to improve education in both trade and public, thirdly to increase the monitoring of prescribing habits by physicians, fourthly to require improved diagnosis of ADHD, and fifth, to improve access to alternatives to medications used for ADHD, sleep disorders, anxiety and chronic pain, that we have more alternatives to administration. These suggestions are now being made for all. Second, I would like to mention a workshop in particular about the issues of children who suffer from drug abuse as the Ministry of Health for June 5th. In that workshop, special attention was given to the future drinking and drug treatment programs for children and young people, how to improve emergency services for this group, and to ensure intervening in the ministry. That workshop stood for a whole day, representing the National Hospital, Child Welfare, Children's Agent, Reykjavíkurburg, the health care of the capital area, Onbog children, U.S.A., the office of surgeons and police in the capital area. There experts shared their knowledge and experience and examined ways of improving their arrangements. Third, I'd like to mention that at my joint meeting and social and social equality ministers this August, my proposal for treatment of addiction was adopted. The first step of this policy is to set up a management team to work out suggestions on which resources would best be used for children and young people with acute ingestion problems, i.e. Drug and alcohol problems. The Autopilot will be appointed representatives of the Health Ministers and the Children's and Youth Department of the Land Hospital, and representatives from the Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Department and the Children's Health Organization, on the other hand. In this regard, it is important that there the responsibility for the project is quite clear at the health minister, but it does not fall between a minister, as often as one has sadly been in this category. The group is to return my results no later than December 15th. Fourth, I'd like to name it as a boy. A senator mentioned changes in various regulations. Change has already been made. First: The delivery of prescriptions for the supplied product is limited to 30 days of each dose. That's a change. Second, if you are not allowed to dispense any multidose prescription, it is not allowed to happen without at least 25 days between your suspensions due to the supplied medication. And finally, a medicinal product from a particular class of medicinal products, such as amfetamine and methylphenidate, is not available unless the patient has a prescription for the health insurance of Iceland. Then I'd like to guess from September 1st, September. it is only allowed to prescribe addictive and addictive drugs electronically and it is not permitted to absorb drug prescriptions for addictive and drug use published in the European Economic Area. So there is also an effort to improve the handling of this matter. Fifth, the surgeon's office cooperates with the Ministry of Health now operates on alcohol and drug prevention policies. - Because I'm a respected president, that my time is running out, I'm gonna try to touch more things. -6th, building is a demeaning process of waste management and detoxification. These are the support of Mrs. Ragnhei's Konkot, as well as the assistance of Mrs. Ragnhean, who is supporting the use of drugs for foreign users and in cooperation with the city of Reykjavík and the Red Cross. That cooperation has come to the finish line. Hv. A senator also asks if I can expect to renew and/or expand my service contract. My answer is that I have a suggestion to increase the number of opioid addiction treatments. I have a positive view, since I understand that there are no primary objectives in accepting the suggestions there from 90 to 120. [[The president calls.]] This will make sure that the ministry is being extended in accordance with the need. A respectable president. At the end of the discussion, I have to mention the issues of Krysavík, and I will.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-25-10.u19	A respectable president. We here deal with the social threat of borders, no age, nationality, profession, or status. It affects everyone, including our people. Icelanders are a lot of drug addicts. In this country about 55% of people use a prescription medicine, which is the fourth highest proportion of European countries. We use two or three times as much stimulating drugs, sedatives, and sleeping medication as well as analgesics. It is most used within the OECD countries and 5 times higher than in Denmark. The use of medicinal products for hyperactivity and attention deficit, ADHD, in this country has increased 4-fold over a ten-year period and is no greater in the world. About 13% of all Icelandic boys aged 10 in 14 are taking some form of ADHD medicine. That is far more than in any North country, but Sweden is closer to us at about 5%. Then there is no greater use of antidepressants among the cousins than here and by a lot of about 35 to 50%. Icelandic girls aged 15◯24 take more than four times as much antidepressants as their peers in Denmark. The number of antidepressant users increased by 8,000 in Iceland between 2014 and 2016, by less than 22%. V.E.G. Minister. Isn't this a scary movie? Is there no reason to look for more specific and informed advice? Mr. President. The surgeon believes that high drug use in Iceland is thought to be sobering, especially antidepressants, and that the medical community has to explain the difference between Iceland and other countries, whether there is a lack of alternatives to medical treatment. Mental help and others have claimed that the use of anxiety and antidepressants is associated with poor bioavailability to the mental health system. An army arrow is being cut off. The objective is that by the end of 2019, there will be a benefit in the field of mental - health care programs available at 90% of national health care stations. It's got to be right. We think we're intelligent. [[The president calls.]] Let us not forget the most important, instruction, enlightenment, preventive measures, and health - related measures.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-25-10.u20	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson for this good and needed discussion. He often hangs on the decks of a community worth discussing here in this room and in the community. I agree with the views presented here, there is a need to promote the treatment homes in the country, the YA, the Vog, the Hl surgeryhouse and the Krysuvik organization. They play a key role in bringing the young people into the treatment of these drugs that we have discussed on the welfare committee for the two times we have received a representative of our surgeon. It's scary stories they tell us about what's going on, when even men of my age come to doctors and lie about drugs they use to buy sex here in town, exploit young women's addictions. It sucks that this is the case and that society is living with such people walking around the streets. It is very important, as the minister correctly pointed out, to deal strongly with these issues and to make a decision. It has a key role, as mentioned earlier. At present, the government's contribution to the Hospital Dogs is running out this year. For the next three months, the company and the hospital must pay for the operation themselves. This fine organization and others have been successful, and therefore I encourage members of the council who have served these institutions to protect them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-25-10.u21	President. The death of opioid overdose is a growing problem in the Western world, a problem that is not only to those who get hooked but to all of us, and especially to us here because it is a policy crisis. His ice is focused on too much to limit the availability of medicines that have including the consequences of raising the street guards. During the demand, such measures will force people into harmful situations so that they can make money for expensive drugs. While it is important to avoid addiction and abuse of opioids, it should be taken into account that the availability of prescribed opioid medicinal products does not increase demand for e.g. heroin, thus opening up another far more dangerous problem. The countries that have reached this global problem, where addicts experience themselves as part of society, not as an outcast criminals, because of their much better management of drug abuse and mortality. It is important that individuals with addictions have a choice of treatment course and are allowed to recover on their own grounds. This approach means that we accept that not everyone is willing or able to undergo decommission, but they receive assistance and resources that ensure future safety and improvement. One important step that we can take to save lives right away is to increase the availability of addicts to the medicine Naloxone. Naloxone is an antidote that reverses the effects of opioids and thus prevents the death of an overdose. You might also be able to strengthen harmful measures, such as Mrs. Ragnhei much better than we do today. But the point is: We will not do anything good if we do not change our thinking toward those who have been affected for some reason in life. All of us must stop viewing addiction as a crime that can be controlled by rules and regulations. Addiction is a disease rooted in social problems and to be approached on the basis of humanity and authority rather than punishment and detriment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-25-10.u22	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson, for need of discussion. The situation is very serious, as we have seen today. The recent loss has been a subject of greater discussions. Sadly, this is no good, since drug abuse has increased the number of drug - related deaths. Before 2016, the number of subjects who have entered the treatment phase of 15 people, 39 years of age and younger, died from drug abuse and associated diseases. In 2016 and 2017, the number went up to 25, but now about the middle of 2018, 24 people died. There is certainly an indication of the situation and on which we are going. Sadly, the consumption of cocaine and morphine has increased and, as a result, more people who ask for help. Happily, individuals seek help, but increasing consumption is associated with serious consequences, more deaths in drug - related diseases. When a person is on a waiting list, things can happen and it can be important to ensure the possibility of assistance during the crisis phase. There we have the opportunity to save families from much grief. I welcome the steps that have been taken, and I want to thank the highest degree. A health minister for the procedures taken and hopes that they will be successful. In view of the fact that the main point is that there is an intervention when the situation is the most serious in individuals with addictions and that a door door is open, I'd like to ask a minister if there is a possibility that the U.S.A. could be a powerful walking unit to which people have access. IN THESEW, facilities, circumstances, and knowledge are available, and additional services and services are available to you today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-25-10.u23	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you for the verbal vendetta and the highest. Minister for being here with us today, and truly thanking the avenger for this discussion that will never be taken too often, and of course all those who have spoken before. It's hard to believe what we're dealing with without our children dying out here. You could say that like a dog. The apologetic said, "what." paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson, that we should not blame anyone alone, cannot fail to notice that it is in the hands of a health minister, that is in her hands, that it is no more complicated than it is, to meet this situation in our community. All I'm saying is, if this were a natural disaster, if it were just as unbearable death in the community because of a natural disaster, like the addiction of the diseases we see, the government would be at an emergency meeting right now. I'd like to allow me to believe that if my illness was not a disease, we would take matters more seriously. It's not enough to talk about prevention, I haven't seen them yet. It's not enough to talk about smuggling in these drugs, and they're in a free sale on the street. Where, then, is the protection on the border to prevent medication from flowing in here? How much better to do if it is to be done!
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-25-10.u24	Madam President. I'd like to thank the advert, please. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson, for bringing up this important subject, which has certainly been discussed in one way or another before. I think we all agree that we will continue to sharpen the highest force. A minister for good works in this matter, standing firm against it, and continuing to encourage it. The effects of prescription - related medications and measures have led me and my associates to a state of great concern. I directed an inquiry to the same minister in January. to see how the surveillance of so - called copyable drugs was conducted and whether they had evaluated their effects on particularly ill individuals and individuals who are dealing with addiction problems, as it is quite expected that governments's decisions on the subject may be a failure to increase their toughness with black medicines if everyone's interests are not covered. Among those who suffer from addiction and are not allowed to land between a staff and doors is imprisoned. Though they are in a certain sense at high risk, they are not offered the same service as others. U.S.A.'s executives are aware of the need for prisoners to treat their addiction, such as other health care professionals. What is lacking is a contract on the work structure, professional assessments and plans that meet clearly the laws and conditions of the Rapporteur in order to provide such treatment to the prisoners. So I want to use this scene to ask the highest questions. The minister would consider whether her arrangements for this category address the problems and interests of prisoners who are addicted to prescription medicines and whether the service to them was added to the report since our last conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-25-10.u25	V.E.G. President. First, I want to thank you very much for this important discussion, and it's clear that there is a need for all action. It is a pleasure to know that a minister has already begun and has set up a schedule. Many times we've discussed the need for a national agreement on a matter, and that's exactly what I'd like to think about here because of the more serious situation we're facing, whether a national agreement can be made on this issue. I realize that a minister cannot do what must be done, as it were, even if he is responsible for the seminary. A cut on community tickets yesterday I saw one person say it would be easier to get out on drugs than to order pizza, it would take more time. If that is the reality, everyone in the community must talk, we need to get all the threads together. I'd like to finally talk about these threads. I'd like a minister to take care of the whole country. It's for Mrs. Ragnheiður, but it's also for Miss Ragnhei. There's a BUGL, and there's a BUG team. And then I'm going to mention it in the end, there are walking divisions in S.A. It is not as if the branch department of Akureyri would continue to be operated unless a minister actually acts on the case. Thank you for the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-25-10.u26	Madam President. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson, and the highest. Minister for the discussion. I want to talk to her about two things. The first song is the importance of prevention, and then I'm talking about prevention in both the elementary and higher schools of the country, and even more. Not only do they need instruction on harmy practices and other ways to treat the problems children and young people may face but they also need to point out and help young people to discern what are ◯ just the right information and what are so - called false information, often subtly presented on the Internet of the market elements that are after the new cow. This can be quite dangerous, often dangerous, and difficult for youths who have not received guidance on how to distinguish. The other thing I'd like to mention are the prescriptions that people are going to be out in a foreign country, i.e. Through foreign doctors and may even publish abroad, and then move home as a sign - form drug. We're told, at least. In the media, there is a considerable problem there, and significant amounts of drugs come to the country in that way. Hard to see e.g. Toll care and others to react because the medicinal products are signed. It would actually have to take place some sort of conversation between health authorities, not just in the North countries, but perhaps even in the whole of Europe, to try to stop it in some way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-25-10.u27	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's frazzle for this important discussion. I want to talk about damage. Whether we like drugs or not, people use drugs. The world's countries have responded to the problems of drug addicts in different ways, and I want to direct the council's attention to those who are addicted to the addiction and how we can deal with the effects of overdose, an overdose that every month leads to the death of individuals. Naloxone is a medicine that can save lives. It immediately prevents the body from receiving an opioid, lasts each dose for more than one hour and is given either as a syringe or with a nasal spray. In many parts of the world, the government has decided not to have this medicinal product available to anyone who needs a price, of course. The product itself is not harmful, so it does not need to be afraid of its overdosage, but, as previously said, it temporarily forms the opioid in the body. This drug is used in ambulances and hospitals here in Iceland, but I think it's necessary that we get this vital drug in more places, such as those in police cars, but the police are the first to get an ambulance. This vital drug also needs to be available in the host shelters, farms for drug abuse, and simply in the pharmacy, so families and users of opioid addicts can have one dose if it goes wrong. This drug saves lives. This is, apparently, one of the minor regulations that can be considered without high costs. I just wanted to deposit it at the highest. A health minister because this can save lives at low cost.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-25-10.u28	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for a very important discussion and Minister for being there to answer today. This is an incredibly big, important case, and I've often looked to the United States when you're thinking about human health and epidemiology and other things and what the trend will be in Iceland within some years. As far as we are concerned, it seems to follow the United States in evolution. In the United States, in 1999, some 18,000 people died from drug abuse. Last year, 2017, it was 72,000. In 18 years, the number was fourfold higher. The same trend appears to exist on tables here in Iceland and these last few years, in the last four years, the bomb appears to be in these opioids. There's a huge bomb like you can see on this chart here, that's the blue line. It's a lie to watch the numbers. What you fear is that evolution will still become the same, that we will follow the Americans in evolution because it is a huge problem, and in the United States it is truly an epidemic. If we look at our statistics, we'll follow a bit of the same path. However, I am very pleased with the answers given in the talk. A minister earlier as to what government and government are trying to do in these matters. Clearly, there are many measures to take, and prevention must be of utmost importance in this context. Then I want to improve the quality of the country's basic and high school routines, to make better connections with them, and once again it is important to have these activities abroad, such as the United States of Akureyri to care for the country too, and we must not forget it in this process. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-25-10.u29	A respectable president. This is one of the discussions that special discussions will never cover because it is too short, as I have complained before. This is a very important subject. I'd like to mention one thing that is unclear to many, especially when we're very emotionally involved, but it's that our actions can sometimes have undesirable side effects that we don't get ahead of us or forget to take into account because we're so busy responding with as much intensity as possible. In short, this is a story involving drug law enforcement. I'm glad I didn't hear anyone here talking about law enforcement as a key part of this because it has this negative side effect, though it's certainly necessary. I would also especially like to mention that there are some things that don't have, at least not of course, negative effects, such as Prevention. We can only divulge there. We can also use therapeutic measures. However, when it comes to controlling the supply and demand, such side effects are eliminated; reducing opioid availability may result in fewer new addicts, positive ones, which are the aims of which we are going to pursue; but this may have the side effect that the already consumed group is more likely to be affected, either by government or by other partners, by increasing the rate or new and worse material on the market or by some similar activity. There are examples of all these things, and this is what the people who do these things will say, and they will say. We need to be careful of this. We need to stick to the methods we know to function, and when we anticipate such side effects as those mentioned here, we have to deal with them in some way. And in the case of those who already have a problem, the solution is destructive. It involves helping the person directly, that sounds contradictory, by taking the substances in a way that is least damaged, without telling him what to do without spontaneously proclaiming it, and by allowing the consumer to do this on his own terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-25-10.u30	A respectable president. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson, for bringing this reality to our attention. I also want to thank the highest. Healthcare minister inlet. It is a pleasure to know that a minister is already responding by order of an Outfit and that suggestions are made for improvement. I hope they'll be pushed out as soon as possible. According to the surgeon general's database and Iceland's Habitat on the mortality of Iceland's population, some 450 people have died here because of drug abuse. In the last decade, on average, 28 people each year have died because of this. This is reality, and the problem exists, i.e. to prescribe abnormal amounts of such medicines by doctors. The task is large, and the surgeon general has difficulty holding it. The use of drugs by Icelanders is much in comparison with that of neighboring countries and is a source of concern. Then you may wonder, " How can I deal with my health - care provider? ' Since most Icelandic doctors have received advanced education in foreign lands, they do not back up their colleagues in neighboring countries regarding skills and skills. On the other hand, there is reason to believe that good prescribing habits are not the same in this country as in neighboring countries. Sweden has established a panel of pharmaceutical committees at each regional Parliament appointed to be the best medical specialist in the field of pharmaceuticals. These committees closely monitor all products and remain in contact with health care providers and medical experts for good prescribing practices and the practical use of medicinal products. The adherence to health institutions to good prescription habits has been put in place as an incentive for paying for the ministry. So it is essential that health conventions be developed in this country to ensure that these matters are handled.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-25-10.u31	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson for this discussion, which is essential. But I'm just gonna point out that I'm a lucky girl. If I had been following this addiction in me, where would I be this day? After surgery, I was on a waiting list, having spent over a year with close to 20 tablets a day of root analgesics and tablets for adverse reactions to these strong analgesics. A lot of kids at home, looking at me out of the water. As a result, when I had actually given up on this, I asked: " Couldn't I have an operation? No. What was I invited to do? Morphine. I took a hook-up to get my surgery. But I ask myself, " How many people are in this situation? ' How many people are kept at home on a waiting list filled with children who have to watch these things? We must realize that it is an addiction. Those who get this, take those strong drugs, are in a bad position at the same time. In fact, research here and abroad has shown that we have to look at it from all sides. Waiting lists, whether they are waiting for treatment, waiting for action; anything called the wait list causes problems. As a result, children need to see each individual, a family, his or her family, in a hopeless situation. Let us look at the numbers that come from the U.S.A. and the crowds between the ages of 15 and 64. In 1976 there were 138 beds, a total of 135,000. Today, 138 beds, exactly the same number, but 232,000 people. We need to spit and deal with this, and we need to do it right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-25-10.u32	V.E.G. President. I thank you for this discussion, and especially for what was presented in the grandest case. Minister, i.e. the arrangements she and her people have already taken. I realize that evolution in this matter is very fast. It's very difficult to catch her. But I still believe that it is safe from this discussion, how the Senate has agreed, to say that it is the next certain that if a minister wants and needs to take action that costs money, she will certainly have the support in this hall, so much is certain. I also wanted to agree with what some speakers have mentioned, prevention. It is very important that they start very early. We have information that the age of syringe addicts moves down and down, the age of those who get a harder substance goes down and down. This suggests that, first of all, we need to promote prevention, support for psychology in school; psychological assistance needs to be complete down to elementary school, even though I know that it is not in the hands of the State. But we need to grab on to this, and we also need to find out why our young people are so sad, as shown in research that our young people are anxious, depressed, sad to a greater degree than around here. We need to find out why this is and fight it. I repeat my gratitude to the minister and encourage her for fine works. I'll say again if I'm at the top. A minister needs support and assistance in implementing the necessary measures, I assure him that she will receive that support here in this room. That is my statement after this discussion and, in other respects, thanks for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-25-10.u33	A respectable president. I thank you for the most excellent discussions and fine advice of all sorts. I assure the U.S. Congress that I would write down clearly what was going on here and the comments and comments that were made. Even if I don't have enough time to deal with it all, it's all on paper. Because of what? A senator asked in his first talk about Cryssuvik in particular that this matter is so important that by the end of January the Ministry received a letter from the surgeon's office showing that the services given in Krysuvik are not considered to be medical services. The surgeon's office suggested that the treatment facility be stopped as a health care provider and that the possibility of continuing to operate there should be developed as a social resources or as a supportal home. The debate is now going on between me and the social minister that this service will not be interrupted but will change its definition but the capital will follow a different definition. I want to make sure of what. A senator that I will follow through on that conclusion. That is the common focus of our welfare ministers. I'd like to respond to something else, many members of the Parliament have given emphasis to the country's construction. I think it's very important to be careful about what's going on there. Hv. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson was referring to a prisoner's case. I think it's important to keep it up. Hv. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson talked about the destructive emphasis. I want to assure them that I have the absolute priority of always taking care of the factors, and I'm especially happy to be able to see that we have 50 million special requirements for consumption right now next year in agreement with the city and the Red Cross. It's in good shape. Hv. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir Helgaóttir also asked specifically for the medicine Naloxone. I think there is good reason to see if there can be a better access to the medication with all its warnings, as well as an answer to a written inquiry on that subject. [[The president calls.]] I expect the information to come out better. So I'd like to say that I'm ready to discuss these matters repeatedly on the welfare committee so that we may even have more time to finish the discussion and the highest. The President doesn't get in the jam he's in right now. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-25-10.u34	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct various laws due to law No. 90/2018, character protection and the processing of personal data. The bill includes minimal changes required of the laws under the transportation and rural government to achieve the objective of a new law on personal protection and the implementation of personal information approved at the council this summer. The changes are required to process personal information from the institutions mentioned in this bill as a process of improvement. In particular, it should be noted that there is no dilation of existing institutions and it is important to correct these tasks. The bill has to do with the change of nine law columns. First of all, there is a law on local Internal Affairs, No. 54/1971, with subsequent changes, then a Community Act, the Transportation Office, No. 119/2012, with subsequent changes, national and public registration laws, No. 54/1962, with subsequent changes, traffic laws, No. 50/1987, with subsequent changes, command to document ships, no. 115/1985, with subsequent changes, air travel legislation, No. 60/1998, with subsequent changes, road design laws, transport infrastructure, no. 120/2012, with subsequent changes, sectoral law, no. 4/1995, with subsequent changes, and the Post and Communication Act, No. 69/2003, with subsequent changes. A respectable president. I don't think it's right to tear down the bill, but I'll discuss it in a general way. First, identify personal information. Comments with the bill show that the personal information refers to any information about a personal person or a personal person. A person is considered personal to be unique if he can be identified directly or indirectly, such as by reference to a name, a social, social, social, social, social, social, social, social, social, social, social, or social identification. In common, the principle of the bill is to state a source for the processing of personal information more than in the current law, in other words, the process of sharpening the correcting of existing laws. Thus, the types of information being collected, file, media, and more and for what purpose the information is being collected are included in each arrangement. Notes containing the individual articles of the bill provide more information and explanations for each article. That's the way it is, for example. Explain why an institution should have access to the development of sensitive personal information. For example, the bill requires the development of sensitive personal information, such as health, financial problems, and social difficulties. It's due to the permission of the European Union's Innovation Agency on Article 5. legal in the local community to make temporary contracts requiring a loan of less money than a month's debt due to social difficulties, such as health issues, insufficient income, less energy, and so on. If we take another example from the bill, the post and communications agency has no authority to process sensitive personal information, but still need a warrant for the processing of personal information, such as name, social security number, IP number, and so on. Another common feature of the bill is the requirement for the collection of the official identity information to be subject to the need for it to be required in the interests of the Agency's legal activities. For example, the bill suggests that the road is permitted to monitor electronically or regularly take pictures on the highways of the country in order to provide increased transport. It says that the Agency will be allowed to share information thus obtained to road users electronically with the metre of laws on personal protection and the processing of personal information. This is an arrangement where the road structure is legalized to provide transport information and to promote transport security. So the purpose is clear. It should be noted that the collection of personal information is in general that the processing procedure should be moderate and should be in accordance with the purpose set out in the respective regulations. It is not permitted to achieve information for other or incompatible purposes. A respectable president. I have now explained the subject of the bill and suggested that it be followed by this discussion. Environmental and transport committees and for what? General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-25-10.u35	A respectable president. I'm celebrating a forward bill, which may sound strange because it's basically legal after we approved the protection laws of the day. I'm happy because this bill clearly shows how to handle personal data from the institutions of the state. I can't help but take a brief answer, since there is now only a very small experience in the law. I've been thinking a lot about these songs, a lot of talking to people in various institutions using data and using data. In many parts of society, concern has been that we just can't do anything anymore, that all mail lists have to go to some recycling process, and that God knows what. But then I feel right to mention on this basis that for responding to these laws, the first thing that people and organizations in particular need to do is make a certain mental attitude, the mental attitude that personality information belongs to the person involved in the information. Second, if agencies in general are generally at a minimum of the information they collect and do not collect information unless there is a very clear need for it. Now it's a law. But I've also noticed that most of the time when I talk to people in various institutions, and I use the word an institution in a very wide sense, I'm talking not only about government institutions but about firms and associates and what one, people are rather quickly giving themselves or finding reasons to support that there's very little to do. That this or the other do not apply to the other or to this institution or to the arrangement as if it's quite good already. I haven't yet met anyone at a state agency or a company that tells me so bad: I think we're working in perfect harmony with the protection law today. It's also a sign that we did something about this Regulation in Iceland. And even though it was noticed at least two years ago, it was as if it could never quite fully indicate that it would take effect here and that it would need action. As a result, Icelandic institutions, once again in a wide sense, are not prepared to change their course so that they are in harmony with the law and are unfortunate. It's very boring, I think. I'm not going to keep it all further, except for what I'd like to reach a single point that I know is nothing terriblely popular and is regardless of whether or not people will be involved in the European Union. He is this: I think it is perfectly impossible for the Allied Congress to take its own initiative in ensuring the protection of personal information in the way these laws do. I consider that completely impossible after working at the Council for a few years and observing it much longer and as a result of being well acquainted with political issues at one time. A lot of these things, legislation that goes very far in protecting any rights, have I thought came from the European Union. This is not to say that the European Union is perfect. It is now a terrible proposal for authoritarians, about which I have given one talk. I'm not gonna go into those psalms. I just think it's worth having in mind when we agree with legislation that it's not just that the European Union forces us to adopt some laws and otherwise we're breaking the EEA Convention, but it's often also a highly advanced legislation, a careful work that has been reasoned in various fields, taking into account many comments, and having tried the real world many times and many sources. So we are, in effect, getting a free job donation, of course, from foreign senators, many of whom do not necessarily view independence as good. But I think it's worth thinking about, in time, because there's one very unpleasant thing about this Regulation, that's how it was introduced into the EEA Convention. I'm not really going to go into those psalms. I just want it to be said here. It's not good in my opinion how she was introduced into the EEA Convention, and we're supposed to be more careful in the future. But we also need to start thinking for the future that if we're not going to enter the European Union, which is something I think the voters have to decide directly, we're going to have to change the EEA arrangement, because sooner than later, it's going to work on factors like 23 gr. The constitution of judgment and the like. I'm not going into all its opinions. But at some point, we need to start thinking about how we're going to conduct such a more important legislation out of the context of the current EEA contract and possibly without Iceland being a member of the European Union, if the voters finally vote against it. That's all I'm gonna have, a respectable president. I welcome the laws that exist, and I like to see in this bill how we are now compelled to handle personal information better. It's been a long time. This law should have actually come, in fact, 20 to 30 years ago. I claim that the information revolution would then have been different and better, according to my opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-25-10.u36	A respectable president. I recommend here for a bill to correct the change in shipping duty law, No. 41/2003, with subsequent changes. This bill suggests adjustments to the rules on the history and rights and duties of the guides. The bill is the product of the Ministry's particular opinion on the legal basis of ocean history. Icelandic law is relatively few to speak of ocean history in spite of the important interests it is intended to protect, i.e. Safe sailing and protection from pollution of the sea and the coast. In this light it is necessary to better recommend seas history and port management clearances in their ports as a guide for marine historicity. Guides who handle such history are entrusted with rights as well as responsibilities for their work. The role of guides in the seas has been recommended by dock regulations, but the Ministry considered that the process of restoration might be clearer. First, it is suggested that a guide be forbidden to leave a ship until it reaches its destination or by permission of the captain. Second, it is suggested that a captain's duty be made to provide food for a guide while on board. Third, a guide has the authority to forbid anyone who does not have legitimate business to board a ship while he is not finished. Other than that, I'd like to refer to a piece with the bill. I draw special attention to page 8. 2 of the main material on such historical history in Iceland. A respectable president. I have now explained the key elements of this bill and suggested that the bill be followed by this discussion referred to at the highest level. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-25-10.u37	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for this passage. I have a brief request to the Minister on the rights and duties of the guide mentioned in Article 2. The bill. It says, by permission of the president: A guide should assist in getting a ship trapped when such assistance is not readily available at the dock. Then it says: In his work, a guide must assist the authorities in carrying out their work. I think it's a little vague and broad. If the highest. A minister could explain what is really meant.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-25-10.u38	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question. The point is that instead of them, it would certainly be possible to mention police, customs authorities, and others involved. But I trust that the committee will cover it in detail and evaluate whether it is more reasonable to have a list of all those who might be considered, or whether it will be better to refer in this general way to those coming to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-25-10.u39	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister. I think you're right. Minister mentioned. I think it's worth considering whether to mention parties such as customs and police, etc. There is always the danger in such a wide range of appeals that there may be some misunderstandings and even conflict, perhaps problems when circumstances arise in which police and customs should arise, if there are insufficient laws to provide assistance for the individual. Thank you very much. Minister, I hope you'll consider this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-25-10.u40	A respectable president. In itself, there is nothing in this discussion to add. I trust, as in other matters, that the committee will take time to review the matter and offer suggestions for reasonable adjustments so that the law will become the most clear and most useful for the entire population.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-25-10.u41	Mr. President. I just wanted to introduce a 1998 Regulation, i.e. Current Regulation, in relation to a guide guide rule bill. It is shown in paragraph 7. that seas and guides only need to be at the hands of a Phase 2 ship's rights. No job experience requirements are required in the Regulation. It may be noted that the second degree at the Control Center School or Court's rights only provide rights as head of the trade and cruise vessels. In this Regulation, there is no requirement for the possession of international rights, called CTCW rights. The work requires that the individual be fully understood and experienced by the administrations of ships, where a seaman is very often a master counselor on how to take control. We know that in recent years, ships that visit the land have grown and are increasing. These include the cruise ships, as well as the shipping vessels for the aluminum. I think it's most desirable, Mr. President, that the storytellers have experience and rights in relation to a larger ship. It is noted that in many parts of the earth, ocean historians have been employed as captains or managers on larger ships. There are, for example. demands made in Britain, now our neighboring nation and a well - known shipping nation. In view of what I mentioned, especially as to the increased shipping, I think there is a full reason why this discussion, this bill and the Committee, should be considered as to whether it is wrong to change this Regulation. Then it's 1998. Things have changed a lot back then. I would have felt very desirable that this case would be taken into account.
