ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u1	As part of the 1st part of the program, there will be votes at this meeting, as agreed on the program 2, 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u2	A respectable president. Today I choose to make my subject political responsibility. Sadly, the English Ministers have not given up their political responsibility by ruling, as is customary, for example. in the North. As a result, Icelandic politicians get too much benefit from the doubt when the common citizen really should enjoy it. Instead of immediately trying to convince the public that nothing different has happened while the media are trying to shed light on the errors. I'm not going to tire you out by listing the cases in Iceland where this has been the case, nor will I mention all the cases from the North countries where ministers have resigned for what in this country would be considered dicksshit. But okay. If we don't want to change the custom and have a minister responsible for a resignation, at least some kind of defense will have to be put into the system, so here we don't have to go for election year after year because of an irresponsible and devoted minister. Consequences and elections cannot release ministers from responsibility. V.E.G. The prime minister has been talking about political trust groups, but he does not forget that we have a variety of tools to secure and prevent corruption, including an undecided rule of government rights, ethics, national law, and guidelines. I hope that the results of the group will be not only one additional in this many systems but that effective measures will be implemented that will force ministers to have a clear responsibility for their political decisions. Political responsibility is not merely to say the excuse when it is clear that a smooth business has taken place. Political responsibilities must be carried out in all the duties of the minister. Can we unite in allowing the doubt to be enjoyed by the public and to stop wasting the time of the General Assembly and the public in discussing the delinquency of a minister? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u3	Mr. President. In Iceland, we're going to get drunk. This is what we've been looking at in the past few years waiting for an opportunity to make things right. Now it's time and there's nothing to wait for, is there? A new government had a dramatic declaration and promise in its government covenant. But the words are empty and answerless, and the responses are blurred. We'd be closer to hearing a little bit of gart this way, so I'll use language from yesterday's discussion. King Vetur makes his case, and we are thoroughly reminded of where we are on the ground in the countryside. Transports fail, and entire settlements live in isolation for days. We don't change the land's soil, but it's bad enough that important structures are replaced. In no way do we respond to pressures, have become dangerous, and have cost lives that are precious and never valued for financial gain. But that is exactly what we stand for, money. Money is needed to improve roads, bridges, airports, and ports. Last government's proposals were made to charge even further costs of vehicles beyond the billions paid by automobile owners in various ways over the years. It's gone for now. The case is urgent, unable to stand. It's a national coverage daily around the country. Smokeland, East, Western, today it's Kjalarnes. It takes a great deal of effort and tens of billions to correct. It was reported in the local press this week that the huge funds of pension are tied in a domestic venture, such as food, insurance and phone companies, considered to be of long - term interest. The question is asked, and probably not for the first time: Why not the government seriously consider dealing with the pension fund to participate in this great effort? In this way, all of us make the best for ourselves, bringing together our money for a good job. This may be a safe and acceptable product for the fund and a practical way for the state funds, and we all make more money together.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u4	A respectable president. There are some interesting things going on at the council these days, and it is boring to choose one subject more than another. I'd like to discuss a council proposal for improved business affairs, changes in elections, or electronic real estate transactions. However, there is one issue that stands above others here on the issue of seriousness, that is clearly the case with the minister of justice. All the evidence that has appeared to us recently suggests that a minister of justice has acted against all counsel, against all indications, and, as the Supreme Court's judgment says, against law. Inevitably, the result of this situation is that a minister apparently used reasonable means when she made a decision regarding a judge's orders for a new court of the land. A minister simply disagrees with everyone; judgment, opinions, and indications that she has made the wrong choice. This is the result of the tendency to allude to the authority of a minister, which I have the feeling was enforcing in recent years. It simply creates the possibility of an intentional decision, the possibility of autism. I would have thought we had a lot of defenses in our system; administrative law, ethics, and the conviction of council members at the Council. But as it is clearly stated in the case of the head of the Agency and the head of the branch office of the left green green, each minister is responsible only for his own party, and each party is responsible only for his body members, and members of the colleagues have nothing to say about other ministers. I mean, this attitude is irresponsible and is to my experience with the silent viewers of harassment. All it takes for evil to triumph is that good will do nothing. Those who could stop violence did not.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u5	V.E.G. President. We began our assembly week at a joint meeting of all political parties, where we in the political state joined together for a response to the #methoo revolution and discussed the next step. I want to thank you for the meeting and for those taking the initiative. This is serious material, but it was a pleasant meeting. Such attitudes are worthy of imitation and may be considered in other matters for which such fellow feeling is evident. About the meeting, I'd like to say that I thought he was a success, that his issues were different and good, and that he really moved. It is good to find mutual harmony and harmony to change, find ways to reject all forms of harassment, and continue to take up the conversation, and find a more formal approach in our field, as was the case. The objective of the meeting. You see, behavior can be changed by rules, but the strongest is that with courage in arms, such as the women's stories in many fields and from the community professions testify to, with the revolution that #metoo truly is, with the stories and conversation, as at the meeting we had at the Grand Hotel on Monday, shapes attitudes and mental changes that are not only necessary but not as important as the channel of communication that we find within the political or otherwise. Whether there are laws or rules, procedures, or rules, it must be considered, and of course in this matter. I mean, the big step is revolution, how real and how serious it is, and to create the experience of it, but especially how strong and the time it is to find in the conversation the change of viewpoint.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u6	A respectable president. I gave a talk in my day about computer security and that it would never have been worse than then. It had never been worse then, and today it has never been worse than today. At the beginning of the year, micro- or less of every computer in the world learned security defects, it doesn't matter whether you have Mac or Windows or Linux. These are very serious defects, and they will have a very negative and long - lasting effect on the world's computer security. In view of this, what a great joy it is that we are soon discussing the recording of new laws on identity protection! It's about time, because we as a community have gathered all too much information and treated it as too soon as possible. There won't be anything easier in the future unless we get a grip on ourselves. It seems like the world is doing it, so I look forward to discussing it when it comes into Congress. I hear from law officials immediately that these changes will be complex and expensive. This is both a cause for joy and a cause for concern, for if not, this would not be enough. As I say, information has been collected. I know it's a computer programmer that we collect a lot of information and we often do it without cause, a little thoughtless. It has been a long distance from what computer technology has brought forward. Now we need to rethink that practice, we have to start taking it seriously, not just with techs, but with the public and people who run companies and collect information and benefit from collecting and using it. We are not to do so unless we have a visible reason, and we must be careful about the information. There is some good news that people find this complicated and expensive, but we also need to remember that this is not the complicated and costly thing to do. If we are to apply these principles, we need to be realistic.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u7	Mr. President. Since I began to go back in time, I found that in the past five years, earning money has increased by nearly 26%, so hired people have truly received considerable compensation in recent years. Last Friday, a panel of Independence Party was visiting the National Socialist Association of the United States of America. We were received with an advantage, but the guardians of the Quantum held their case in a very firm, balanced manner, but the message was clear. I've previously said, more than once, and more than twice in this symposium, that it's our failure to reevaluate the insurance system of disability, as we planned, that we should still arrange for a system where people are punished for the slightest effort to improve their interests. Having a cent against a dollar when it comes to microsurgents is a disgrace to us. Let's get on with it. Let's be together to improve the quality of disability before leaving here in the spring. Let us tailor the system so that it is simple, just, and above all, we stop punishing people when they try to improve their interests. [[The president calls.]] This is a promise we should make to one another, and we should give it to those who are sad.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u8	V.E.G. President. I want to make transportation my subject today. According to the laws on transport, transport is seeking easy, practical, safe, environmental and positive development. The main challenges of transport programmes are to meet the needs of the population and sector, that professional analyses are behind priorities, and that all travel is looked forward to safely. Monitoring for minimum bioavailability of essential public core services and, in addition, access and mobility in the transport system for transport and transport within and between regions will be improved. At the same time, work application site should be emphasised in line with the national application programme for shorter travel periods and larger areas. The development and management of transport should be considered in particular for the development of tourism, including by strengthening the portals into the country. An example of one such port is the Eagle's Airport, and it is important to keep it working. This is a number of important goals, since transportation is one of the life forms of each person and needs to be improved. It is the face of a major task of construction across the country. Transport is the basis for a society's natural growth in employment, culture, safety, and general development. There is good transport, and during the past few years, urban cities have grown. At the same time, significant changes have been made in the development of habitats and employment areas. It is necessary to strengthen the transport system because work makes for economic growth, which is the basis for society's growth and prosperity. It is therefore one of the priorities of the government to add further funding for road construction, and this is not enough to address the cumulative problems around the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u9	A respectable president. I would like to direct the eyes of the Parliament to the position of the Council of Europe's Convention on Prevention of Women and Family Violence signed in Istanbul 2011. The government covenant of the present government states, by permission of the president: A sexual crime - related environment will be overcome with the aim of strengthening the position of the defendants of sexual abuse. The Istanbul Convention on Prevention and the Struggle Against Women and Family Violence will be validated.◯ I welcome the government's decision to work on the validation of the contract. After the #methoo revolution, the public called for needed changes in the legal environment of sexual crime and was a major step toward the validation of the contract. Violence against women, including domestic violence, is one of the most serious forms of sex - related violations of human rights that can exist and social ills wherever possible. The Istanbul Convention obligates Member States to take measures against women, and it is therefore important that it be validated here in Iceland and the change in law required by the Commission. According to the minister's response to the written request of the Bishop of Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir to the then Minister of the Interior, Ólöf Nordal, at 144 C.E., there is a legal hearing that has to be reported before the contract can be validated. Then, with the permission of the president, it says: So you can expect to validate the contract when the above - mentioned bills are made. Their contributions are planned at the 2015 fall Summit The importance of this contract has not yet been valid, but it is important that it will occur as soon as possible and be fulfilled in a government covenant with those in it. Clearly, the situation is well along with the answers of the then minister in 2015. But it is not over. So, in the following days, I will send a new petition to the Minister on the situation and hope that members of the Parliament will observe that the Istanbul deal will be validated the first.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u10	A respectable president. I'd like to make it a subject of recent United Silicon bankruptcy. Not to look forward to the misfortune of those who may be painful to bind because of it but to the fact that here, hopefully, and possibly there may be water divorces in the construction of commercial life in this country, that public funds will be stopped for billions of dollars on unrealistic projects, poorly prepared, poorly planned, and poorly designed, only because they are thought to create jobs. We are expected to have a report on the development and operation of this factory, which was to become the largest in the world, and thus enjoy all possible and equally inexplicable payment on government and economic parties. But we now know that much went wrong when foreign banks did not trust to finance the project and to close when it was found that the wiseness of that investment had been spent in the bank and the pension fund by about 8 billion. Investments were made in the panels and miscalculations, variations from the plans for environmental assessment. Invested by pollution, only a few were counted. I'd like to use this opportunity, Mr. President, to ask Icelandic executives and people who are assigned to give public money a warning against two magic words in their professional affairs: Supervillain and Grande. Every time we hear the word become big, we should be scurrying about, and when we hear it, we should go. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u11	Mr. President. Oil search has been quiet in the Dragon area as well as possible processing there. This industry has been criticized, not allowing room for the earth's minerals in the earth's carbon books. The Chinese Company CANOC and Norwegian Porto now withdraws from study permits to 12 years of age and all other responsibilities. It is good and productive. An energy agency does not believe that the Icelandic party Eycon can support further activity in the region by small means. The company still intends to use protest rights and even look for new partners. It doesn't count the Agency as a license and a law. I'd like to draw attention to this and encourage senators to help Iceland become real carbon-free without 2040 and to follow the fact that only 2/3 known fossil fuels will be spared will be the objective of the Paris Convention. After a talk. The last speaker I'd like to say that United Silicon is bankrupt with financial damage to bank, pension fund and Smokeytown, while at the same time it is clear that smoke, dust, and gas are not subject to society's inhabitants. Anion bank aims to complete the repairs of this heterologous factory and resume operations with new owners. Maybe it'll work, maybe it won't. However, it is clear that the production of the factory's improvements by independent experts will be ensured that the evaluation of environmental impact will be reviewed, along with a work permit, and that all programmes of theaching industry in Helga will be reviewed from baseline. Let us consider all of this together.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u12	A respectable president. During the discussions of the senators on Monday, why? paritaprevir Logi's face it, Einarsson's face it. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, with permission of President: With the fishing fees, we want the nation to be paid a higher price on their common resources, either sea or energy, or so. Of course, such things can lead to much compression. But there are also other ways to stay inhabited in the country than to force people to stand in ways that may no longer carry. A respectable president. It is a cold greeting that fishermen and fish workers receive from the chairman of the United States. Its district has a powerful miniboat design, and it also has the largest construction and processing companies in the country. He feels that the economy of the development has failed to achieve the aim of the United States to kill down all the smaller and smaller fishing vessels throughout the country with unrealistic fishing costs. Logi adds, with president's permission: ▪ Is it not all right if some of the fishing industry falls to the head - notice - and we seek in the most practical business so that they eventually get the fee? Is it so that the chairman of the United States can't see anything else about it, but what can be squeezed out of her fishing fees, or she's just dead? In the current fishing year, the small boats pay five times the fishing fee, i.e. 350 million. Q, taken into account the profits made by small boats in 2015, which was 71 million. K. This means the miniboat's dead. In this house, everyone agrees that the fishing fees have been paid, but the costs have reached the point where all individual projects are being joined by larger companies, with serious consequences in many parts of the country. A respectable president. I'm asking a sailor's manners: Is the chairman of the United States Group just not the same about the construction in the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u13	The president would like to remind you that it is proper to speak to members of the council, even if it is referred to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u14	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying something with a what. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason in terms of ideal disability. We are revening a similar visit to the assembly of the Independence Party that day to the Quantum Community, where many urgent cases of disability will no doubt be covered. I want to agree with what. A senator says that this is something we are under obligation to do. I could come here and play some game and say, "Here's a government with a certain share, you just take care of it. What I can promise, however, at this point, is that we at the Councilhood will support the government classes in all the steps that we need to take to support disability. I'd like to encourage all of us and thank you. A senator for raising an issue on this important matter. The rest of them are then, and that's why I made the sound, the transportation. I agree with it. paritaprevir Egilsdóttir said earlier, the transport system and infrastructure need to be strengthened. Then we can't forget the southwest corner. This room is often lent when it comes to transportation. At the last lunchtime, we were senators of the Southwestern District to face challenges, including those of the United States. From the workers of the Iron Land Factory on Gestures, the Aluminium, and other companies working there because of the state of the Westland Road. The same is true when we're leaving the capital and we're going east. Many have to go there because of work, and the same is true when people have to go through Hafnarfjörður. To improve the problem, it costs some 70 to 480 billion on the southwestern corner to make the situation more than acceptable. And then the government has to play cards more. I am deeply concerned about the lack of ambition in the case of the highest. When it comes to the southwestern corner affairs and infrastructure, the secretary of transportation is on the inside. We will keep it there, as in other matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u15	Mr. President. Like what? paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson mentioned earlier, China's state oil companies and Norway have now made a decision to discontinue participation in search of oil and gas in the Dragon Zone. This is surprising, since these companies had planned to make significant improvements in this search, in view of the fact that research has provided very positive evidence that there is oil and gas to find at work levels. In fact, shortly ago the Norwegian Parliament had decided to provide additional funds for additional work, additional search, in the Dragon area. This was so sudden that it turned around, possibly as a result of a political change in Norway. In any case, it is clear that this is a political issue, both in China and Norway, which is a political decision. This calls for a political response from Iceland. No word has been heard from Iceland's government on this enormous interest in Iceland, which is not just a major matter of economic, economic interest, but it is a big issue of international relations, in our relations with these countries. If the Norwegians are going to disappear from being our allies, so to speak, in the processing of oil and gas, and instead give them much more emphasis on winning oil and gas in our own jurisdiction, as bear in mind, Mr. President, that now the Norwegians were making a decision on large increases in oil and gas production in their own legal history, we or the representatives of the Iceland, the Icelandic Government, have to find out whether other nations, other allies would rather be our partners in this matter to the future. I call upon the council to keep Iceland's government on the subject in this case. It is impossible to feel that such a big national interest is being neglected in all respects. [[The president calls.]] Let's hope we get some answers from the government on this matter in the next few days.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u16	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason for an amazingly beautiful introduction to the discussion earlier. I kind of had to pinch myself twice to make sure that it came out of an independent person's mouth, but I had to admit it, but I loved those words very much. They raise me the hope that it really should be, really, to stick together to improve the ideal microorganism of the country. The question that has often been in the discussion is further to be asked: Why is the growth of micropigs so great? What can we do in this regard? The fact is, much of this growth comes from young people who have a mental disorder that can be traced back to addiction. That's the discussion I've been running in the last two days and I want to snoop and move on. The drug is serious, we can do so many other things besides pitching for one night, we can look to the future. We can do it together, and I really want to believe that 63 of us can raise the bigotry to the future that everyone really dreams about. We have experts, geniuses, I've talked about before. I've been talking to the individuals everyone's ready to come to help our people. And now, after hearing what. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, I am full of optimism and smiles.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u17	V.E.G. President. In the beginning, I'd like to agree with what. paritaprevir Sæland harei, who spoke of the need for more attention on the affairs of disability and on many sides. Of course, there is a need for a review of the social security system to better ensure the benefit of those under it. I agree with the viewpoints that have been expressed in this regard. Similarly, it is thought - provoking, as it were. paritaprevir Sæland Gourand mentioned, what is the explanation for the growth that has been among those who have to rely on pay from the micro-energy pension component of the social security system. It is an extremely important social assignment to consider how we can contribute to the fact that the reasons it mentioned do not cause people to fall out of a workforce and to have a chance to get back in once they have dropped out. This is a multitask. The review of the micro-energy pension system, the development of the improvement system, and other such are urgent issues on the government list. But I think it would be an enjoyable and important thing for us to find together a point of how we, as Congress and the government, can take precautions to prevent more young people from getting into such a position, and to pay the way back to the labour market and to a healthier life for those involved. [[The president calls.]] I think it's really important.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u18	A respectable president. I have to say, just as I'm saying, this request is really unattractive to me. In the first place, it is unusual to hide the Ministry to tell the council how the tips made in a research report, which alone does not focus on any particular Ministry, but is a general recommendation in many parts of the community, have followed and is followed by what has been done. In this regard, it would be good to review the General Assembly's resolution of the 2010 Council's Report on the 2010 Parliamentary Commission, on the basis of a number of counts on how to change the Constitution, the General Parliament's Congress, the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers, the legislation on financial operations, etc., all into 12 teams, and then, in particular, in the third chapter of the Parliament's resolution that Algirdary Act should be referred to as a review of legislation proposed by the Parliamentary Committee. Coming up eight years later and suggesting that the Ministry of finance be assigned to take in indications that could become months or even years of work without any cost being submitted, simply will not work. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm going to have to go back to the report.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u19	V.E.G. President. Of course, it is usually so that after enough contact requests have been received, the council has not stopped them from being supplied at the council. This is not automatic, however, but it is expected that the assembly would be visited by a vote. I've got to say something like that. Secretary of finance for this matter. I think the request, as it is requested, is extremely broad and irresistibly focused on the wrong person, i.e. Secretary of finance, which certainly is one of the parties involved but only one. He's not a general administrative minister who has the advantage of all factors. It should also be noted that much of what is being heard here applies equally to the council. However, the key point is that if you are going to follow up and see how the evidence has been completed in the recent research reports, which may be desirable and positive, the approach in this request is incorrect. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It would have to be made in other ways and better.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u20	A respectable president. I think that's what we're talking about. Senators and Ministers need to learn a little more about this, because here is another query for social and equality minister, and there is also in the process of asking the General for the part involved in the council. I find, in the highest sense, abnormal, if you don't put your arms around the tips that were shown in the Adolescence research reports for proper guidance, do not keep your mind on how these matters turn out. These data must only be available. Since these indications are likely to be taking some steps toward meeting these indications, there is no need for cost or charge. If I'm learning now that there's nothing like that, I'm getting a little bit out of the report's objective. These indications are not being carried out. There is much more need for this report. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u21	Mr. President. I can understand the purpose of asking for such a report. I would support, and I think it is necessary for us to see if we have taken into account the indications presented in a report by the World Commission rather than the Commission. So I would like and would have chosen to reroute this request and take to shape a proposal for a special committee and advice to the staff and loyal funds to review the indications presented in the General Commission report and map out what tips have been followed, whether or not they came to action, etc., how we made progress. It is the normal course, that the Council has custody in its hands but does not hand it over to the Commission, as this request implies. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u22	A respectable president. I want to make it known that in general I have a short report request, provided it is expressed in the spirit of the system of government we live in. We have a General Accounting to disseminate various administrative matters. There are examples of such matters on the program here today. We've set up special research committees. In fact, a special report on the Interpretation Committees of the Generals was discussed in accordance with the National Research Committees 68/2011, where a number of points were made as to what leading men should be doing in such a large reporting process. It was foreordained. At that time, 447 million had been over the budget of these reports for the council. In total, the reports for camp loans and savings cost 928 million back then, apart from 343 million. K. ... attheCountry Committee of the Generals. The key issue here is that the council has agreed on how to handle the situation. [[The president calls.]] There are indications in many parts of society. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, More important, the Parliament has previously concluded that it is a committee that should monitor the progress of the changes called. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u23	V.E.G. President. The point is that when the Senate Committee produced 2010, it was assumed that a follow-up would be held in the hands of the council, not by an individual body of counsel. I think it's an important point in this relationship, both from a switch between the European Commission and the Parliament, but also simply because the Ministry of finance does not have a general role in managing the administration. The Ministry of Economics does not appoint responsibilities with responsibilities in other councils, as expected in the report request. There's something else in this that's a misunderstanding. This is an excellent suggestion, an excellent idea, and an excellent reminder that these reports need to be reviewed and followed. But the case is being directed against the wrong minister. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[The president calls.]] It is grappled with things pertaining to the administration and other aspects of the government. [[The president calls.]] I think things would improve with a greater scale and that the purpose would be better achieved by otherwise approaching it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u24	The President reminds us of the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u25	With more overcrowding, etc. - This report was taken during the last term. Then all the members of the assembly signed it, except for members of the Independence Party, to make a request. Since then, more than one report has been divided into the committee field that helped to win the report request. So much has been done, and much has been done to get the report here. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, under the report request, members of all groups would be represented, except for the Independence Party and the Annexe, while a member of the Convention had the request for this report during the previous council, the last election period. The members of this body may be asked why they do not have them now. But I call attention to the fact that there are six categories that sign this request.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u26	A respectable president. I'm not gonna take a stand on who's stupid or wrong or how it is. But I'm sorry, I can't support this request because I think it's too extensive. We don't see the cost, it's too big. If we are to learn from these matters, we need to keep separate, knowing where we are going. I'm sure it's a point of view, but this time I can't support this treatment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u27	Mr. President. I disagree. paritaprevir The bear of the Birgir Ármannsson of a year. I think it's the highest. On the contrary, a minister does know exactly what he is doing. It is clear that I have never seen such opposition to a request before. I have not been at a council for a long time, but this is more opposition than will go on and on a simple request, and it does not come unexpectedly, which is, in particular, how many people are in shock. The members of the Independence Party have come up to protest it. Clearly, the request has to do with a certain nerve. Perhaps it is the nerve that has been developing for many years after these fine reports came up with attempts to produce a substantial crash that took place here, but there has not yet been an analysis of the actuality of the resolution. There's a fairly modest suggestion to start that process. I think that should be done with that request.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u28	A respectable president. I think it's interesting that we're standing here today, and we're about to vote for some votes against a file request that I'd like to go to the Generals' web that just never happen. A petition has not been issued in this century. I looked up to 2010, and no one has voted against the reporting request at that time. It sounds like the discussion here that we agree on the content, about reviewing what has been done after the study reports, and therefore, rather than taking this to vote in a chamber, we thought it would be better and more beneficial to think there was some way in which we could get along the way ahead. Here's why. paritaprevir The son of Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, to remember me, the decree of the assembly, no; it was a why. Óli Björn Kárason, who mentioned that this might be more of a matter in the Senate arrangement for a complete resolution. I'd like to state that if this request is not accepted, I'll be an importer in that language.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u29	A respectable president. I think this is the most interesting discussion I have to say. I'm not gonna repeat that as a dog. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson went over, but I'm surprised to learn that there's a review of a report request, let alone that some members of the council vote against her. In fact, according to the European Commission and the legislature of the European Commission, it will probably be made known. But I have sensed their reason. The members of the Independence Party who have spoken here that there is a need to consider these matters. After listening to those brief talks, I felt the need to be richer than I did when we walked into a Senate hall today. That's why I want to be a whisk. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson declares that if this request is dropped, I find it a good reason to do something to them, perhaps collectively with all groups, or whatever it might be. I also expect that it will be supported by all classes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u30	A respectable president. I can't remember since I attended a council meeting in 2009 when this request was issued at a Senate Hall. These may be the new job being offered, that they should start looking carefully from political interests, something like that, what kind of reports to agree with, I don't know. However, I wondered, " Is my report being directed straight? ' I wondered if it would be possible for a petition to be made to a prime minister rather than to the Ministry of finance. To say that I am not wrong in saying that this request is carried out like everyone else. So, of course, the Ministry's job is to appreciate how much ambition or employment must be made in answering this report. However, it will be very new if it is made up, interesting, especially in view of the great discussion of promoting the council and all of that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u31	Mr. President. I also find it uncomfortable to have to cancel a report request because it's something we've been working for, whether we're in a government or a government position at any given time, to run through. Of course, when requesting a request for a report, we do well to consider the nature of these requests. I agree with what. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason about the treatment he proposed. I would have thought that it was for the benefit that this request would be retracted, especially in view of the fact that the senator may be trying to get support from all members of the council if it is prepared by those who have been toyed here. It is not good for me to know to start with a case and then plan to gather a team to try to get it into the way that it may be at home. I got it. I got it. To revise and retract the matter, a senator, the first transporter, looks for ways to settle the process.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u32	Mr. President. I have to say, I was disappointed at what happened. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear should not take further into account that we could unite in having custody of the case at the General Assembly, with the legislature, instead of looking to the executive's office. I find it quite strange, and I'm surprised that such proposals come from the Pirates of all, to trust in the authority to review and evaluate whether and how men have followed indications in the reports of the General Committee. I repeat: Is it not better that we try to get along? Not unless the objective is something other than what is implied in the request.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u33	A respectable president. The member of the Council of Congress was the member of the Parliament who reviewed the Generals' study report in his day. I think it would be important to review our reports at the council, to review the tips in a reasonable way. At the time, we suggested that the council do so. In order to promote the council, it is only reasonable to conclude that the council itself has made such reviews. We've also discussed it once we've started research committees, through experience, that because we don't know anything about the scope, we don't know anything about the costs, the time, or anything else will be out of control. I've received reports as Minister, which took more than a year for one employee to work and came here repeatedly to ask for some time to report the report. I think it's more reasonable for us to agree on this conclusion, what our reports and research committees have produced, and what the results have been. I think it's very wise that the council does so, but not the execution of the authority under which the institutions of these institutions are involved, as, for example. for example, at the Department of Social Affairs that the Substitute Bank is entitled to. I believe to promote the council, it is reasonable for the council to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u34	The president wants to inform you that a request has been received from a messenger that the votes for the 2nd and 3rd part of the program be postponed. Ask the president if there is any further discussion on the vote, so it is no longer on the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u35	A respectable president. So I withdraw the report on my own, but I would like to complain only that the criticism appeared at the conference first, not in these new tactics, political discussion, etc., before the conference began. I had already sent a request to council presidents during the last term too, so it had been enough time to discuss the matter further. So I ask people to consider being a little on time at the council. It's been a long time to look at it. At the moment, we're going to retract this, we're gonna talk about it, we're gonna make a good decision, and we're gonna move on from there.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u36	The president was just about to announce that the vote was postponed, which is different from the being called back. The president would like to ask the first transporter: Isn't there a agreement that the vote is postponed? Yeah. However, matters are still matters of Congress, and they will be off the agenda for this meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u37	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a bill to change the birth and parental law of No. 95/2000, with subsequent changes. Transporters in addition to me are all other members of the United States. The union has provided a similar bill in the past. It was Sigríður Ingadóttir who made it last, but this bill is only simplified. The bill suggests an extended birthworm of nine months to twelve months, which involves an increase in both parents' rights and infants'rights to their parents. By the end of 2012, in the time of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, the law of No. 143/2012, of the change in birth and parentorof law, stipulated by a total of nine months to twelve months. When the government of progressive and independent groups began to rule in May 2013, that change was removed. This bill suggests that each parent's own right, according to Article 1. Section 8. The law shall be five months, and the common right of the parents according to the third sentence of the same paragraph shall be two months. A similar change is made to 18 pars. a valid law requiring the concentration of birth to the parent outside the labour market. This shift is in line with the results of a future birth policy group that gave the Ministry of Health in March 2016. The staff served as representatives of unions, rural society, and employment. At that time, Eygló Harðardóttir, Announcer of the seminary, and the member of this task force was the minister of the seminary. Then the proposal is in accordance with the proposal and presentation of senators left green, and indeed most members of the Parliament. So there should be some agreement on these improvements even in government and government opposition. It should be noted, then, that both ASI and BHM have supported the results of the group of work that these changes in the bill take place. Of course, not all children need to be concerned about how precious children are to each nation, except, of course, the joy of a child's loan to most people, but much has been discussed about the need to have the best of young children. Yet, much too little has been done on such matters. Examples of these are difficulties in the housing market, a growing and child benefits, and a lack of effective support for young families of important but often a very difficult financial period in people's lives. Young people are a precious resource, especially that will draw the bus for the next decade to an Icelandic community. It pays to win the best for that mission. The period between the completion of the maternity vacation and the arrival of a child in high school is too long today, and many families find themselves very heavy. At best, rural communities offer support for daily care, i.e. daily parents, which are usually considerably more expensive than preschool fees. In other rural areas, there is so little work and nothing available. Then problems may become more severe. It is also one of the rural communities that best make a substantial amount of weight. Both the State and the workforce need to do much more. It's a great time for the state. Company status is variable. At least she's getting better. But even if the rural community is bright ahead, many of them are in irons, and they have little opportunity to do much better in those matters and will, I don't think, they can reduce their age to 12 months in general unless there's a lot of government support. But it is such a later matter. The report also suggests that there will be a way for all these children to be invited to a preschool at 12 months of age. It's not the subject of the bill, but hopefully it'll be the forward subject of the council because it's important. There is also a very important level of equality. Even though much better this discussion has moved on, it is still true that it is much more often the woman who is at home with the child and cannot get into the job market. This is the person who has less income, who is more likely to be at home with his child. Sadly, this still exists in our community, even though women do as much work as they do even the same work. To change that is a very important balance matter. Then, the situation of single - parent families is of great concern. The above report of the task force says, with permission of the president: ▪ The main aim of a two-part course of parental law is to match the position of women and men in a labour market, including that of allowing fathers to take time from work to spend with their children during the first few months after their birth without full loss of income. This is shown in 2 mg. 2.g. The law. The bill on this subject should strengthen the objective, since it is also suggested that the total right of parents to birthworm for 12 months be divided in the following way: Mother's maternity rights will be five months; the fathers' maternity rights will be another five months, but the common right of parents will be two months. Both changes included by the bill are in line with the March 2016 workgroup suggestions. By permission of the president, the government covenant stated: The social equality of the sexes is emphasized by the government. Among the things being planned in the workforce's conversation are the prolongation of the birthworm and the rise of holiday grounds in the maternity clinic. How praiseworthy it is that the government wants to place great emphasis on equality! I have full faith in it with the highest. Prime Minister on the helm to follow through. But I believe there is nothing to wait for. That this important step should be no change in collective agreements. Rather, it becomes part of our infrastructure, which is not to be used by the way winds blow people's wages. I hope, therefore, that there will be a fairly wide agreement on the bill and that there will be laws sooner than later. Finally, I suggest that when this discussion is completed, the matter will be referred to a welfare committee for further development and coverage.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u38	President. Thank you. A senator for reviewing this bill and presenting it. I believe that the birthworm is extended, so far too short, as is the situation today. I wondered this about single - parent families. A senator mentioned. The situation today is that children are being discriminated against depending on whether they have one or two parents. There's nothing to deal with that. I see it as a single parent that a single parent receives another month, seven instead of six. But he knows why. A senator argues for this conclusion in the work force, why the switch is five, five, two months rather than e.g. Three, three, six, or something that would make the children of single parents longer with their parents?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u39	Mr. President. Yes, for that, of course, there's an equal basis. Of course, both parents are expected to care for their children. When we compare ourselves with the northern countries, it turns out that the people who are the longest in line to Sweden have adopted this exchange and conditions. On the other hand, I understand a question. A senator believes that it should be solved only by a certain situation when he or she has to consider a single parent, since a child does not have another parent. But it is often the case with a single parent that the other parent has and wants and, of course, should also care for his child. I think if we did this quite free, it would, as I said before, be the way that the earner would take a lot more of the holiday. In our world, unfortunately, the man would be at work more often, the child would lose his rights, and so would the woman.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u40	President. I agree with this view. The equal friendship is very important in this case. But the child must also be looked after and what is best for him. Having access to the parent, if a child only has one, is very important to have access to a parent for as long as a child has two. At any rate, I will examine for myself the possibilities for single parents to have their baby longer because this is important too. The child's right to have time with his parents must drum up equality.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u41	Mr. President. Yeah. I can see why it can be a special situation. Laws must never be so that they come to someone in particular who needs good service and help. In general, I think it is for the best of the child, if at all possible, that he is associating with both parents. I think if we were to face a few special cases by just opening up on this, it would lead to worse results in the general population. Of course, it would be best for a health committee to have some sort of provision for shooting at a stock of birth or some wish or application so that these views could be met properly. A senator rightly speaks for himself.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u42	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The Logi Einarsson and the Group of the United Nations for this bill, agreeing to a number of events presented in a debate. Senator. He was very careful about the history of the case and the report published in March 2016 in the U.S.A. Minister of Eygló Harðardóttir. You're right. A senator concluded that the intention of the present government is not only to extend the birthworm but also to raise the payments from the maternity reserve. I agree with all the viewpoints. In terms of equality and the importance of this for the child and the family, a senator came in. But I'd like to say that it's very important in this discussion, and that's one of the things we're looking at right now, and we're going to take into it, to think exactly about perimeters as broke. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen came in. There are single - parent families, including students, when it comes to the birthworm system. This is all something that the present government is going to try to consider at the same time. I'd like to say, too, that it's not that even if the labour market members, as well as the labour market. A senator entered into this group of his own time, and came to this and consult with them, but this is no exchange in contracts. [[The president calls.]] It is the intention of the present government to extend its birthmark. This bill is just a really good one, and thank you very much. A senator for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u43	Mr. President. Yes, it is a pleasure to know that there is such a thing. But I'm thinking about just turning it upside down and asking the highest. Ministers, if it's not natural for him to do this, like in the other states of the North and to promote the social stability that was spoken so much before election, that people will be safe when there is a deviation in their lives, when something happens, that they don't have to be on needles, instead of playing it together. The contracts of employers and employees are just one thing. Of course, it must take into account the conditions and conditions that can be paid. But all socialistic politicians in the North countries with some measure of dignity want to fight for it to be part of our basic system instead of some kind, yes, I'll just say again, change in a cash deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u44	A respectable president. Iceland was in charge of its time when the birthorfun system was introduced, just by the media and the then social minister of Páll Peter's Pétursson, who brought the birthal law. How important it is that we strengthen it! Therefore, I have to say that at the time when we needed the economic breakdown to cut down on many areas of society, it was a big mistake to operate on the maternity system, to cut back and so on. Then I would like to ask back and answer the question with a different question: Is it? A senator, chairman of the United States, don't I agree that it was a mistake at the time for Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir to cut down the birthworm? Can we not unite in raising it again? We will, hopefully, take in these perimeter groups that I've been on and have been here for a discussion, and then we can raise this with a picture, build up, and continue to build on this norse social well-being in which birthstorm is crucial.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u45	Mr. President. Now, I'm not going to demean the enterprise of the old forward group that had a really large and strong social network, which I feel has been missing later years, but hopefully she'll come back. [[Flmrh.: And still has.]] As for the changes made in the government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, let us not forget the unprecedented situation then. In fact, it is killing the case when it is intended to forget that there has been one drop of economic breakdown here. We were in the front, but we're the lazyest now. Swedes, Finnar, Danir, Norwegians and Backeys do much better than we do. There's nothing to wait for. Yeah, let's do this together, but let's not make this a change. Let's just go back and agree now.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u46	President. I'm glad there's a proposal to extend the birthworm. I'd rather have suggested that it had been longer. If we are going to bridge the gap between birth vacations and the time that parents can put their child in preschool, it would really have to be a year and a half to two. As it is now, it is extremely difficult to get children into nursery school. It's natural just wishful thinking, but I wanted it to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u47	Mr. President. Thank you, my dear. Senator. I agree with you completely. It's very important to close this gap. However, doing this in this way is considered to be a correct step in the report. Then we have to work to reduce the age of middle school to 12 months. That, however, is enormously expensive. Each month for each child in a nursery school, it's an 18-year-old country. K. That will never be possible without the presence of the State. So there is a question at either end. There may be some difference of opinion, but I think this is a good step at first. Then we'll see if we'll have the orb for 16 months, such as Sweden or other rural communities to lower the age of the preschoolers to 12 months.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u48	President. Yes, it's good that we agree on that. But then I'd also like to point out that if we do this for the benefit of children, I don't know how good it is for children to bring them into daily care right away at the age of one. I'd like to see some sort of initiative from the highest level. A minister that we can accept being a society that really wants children to enjoy association with their parents for as long as they need it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u49	Mr. President. In many ways I agree. I think it would be good for all children to spend even more than 12 months with their parents. Because of me, it can be thought that that that time will only grow a little longer, and then a little lower, that it will get there in the middle. I'm not even sure it's more expensive, because each nursery is so expensive. I trust it like a dog. A senator seriously takes this report as his coworker, former minister of Harðardóttir Harurdddóttir. This is a very careful consideration of the prowess. A senator speaks about and has to bridge, for this too is a huge financial problem for young people who are even beginning to live.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u50	A respectable president. I'll support this case. I'll start by mentioning it. But I must admit that I had not heard the point as well. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen brought along earlier on the subject of single - parent families. I've been thinking about these things in general. I want to think aloud with a bang. A senator on this matter. Now it is three months for a parent, and then three months can be divided. The suggestion here is that it will be five months for a parent and two for a switch to each other. I've long wondered why we have time that they can split up. To me, the time is about giving your child the proper attention that the parent, who is in my mind, has no choice. I don't quite see why it should be a choice. In particular, because the tendency is that the woman takes orl too much of the time because women have less pay than men.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u51	Mr. President. Now we've got a serious political dissociation of Porta's party. Hv. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen spoke very clearly the other way. But this could happen in itself in more difficult situations than this. The reason we split the worm for five, five, two, months is because this is the conclusion of the report. Even if we believe that we are often right and are able to solve things on our own, I think it is good to look to the great and good work being done during the EyglóHarðardóttir Ministerial period. In other parts of the North, this policy is almost always inside. In Sweden, however, this is different. There are three months of marriage for a woman, three for men, and 10 laws for women. There's a lot of updates on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u52	A respectable president. I don't want to mean that there's a big division in the Congress party of Pirata on this case. Hv. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen was discussing something other than me, though it was related to this. When you expect single parents to change, they only change. I suppose there's a way to figure that out, e.g. if one parent can e.g. Give up this intervention, which, of course, is not good, but it does. I think it is quite possible to meet people in those situations, even though they are not selective when there are two parents. When one parent has a lower income, usually a woman, it always takes a parent too much of the time. Then there's an imbalance. I wonder, " When you have a baby, there's no choice. You lose all kinds of freedom, you lose all kinds of things. There's no choice. You can't control everything around it. I don't quite understand why we're going to make sure that we do this for each one of us when it's not something that's wrong, that's thinking about his baby in the early stages of their lives. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u53	Mr. President. Yes, I really agree with the senator. With this bill, we take steps toward tying it even more than the word, attaching it. Today, much more of the time is tied, in fact, in contrast with Sweden's actions. It might be curious to hear why Sweden has gone that way, since Sweden may be. the world's most successful land in many fields of equality. But I think it's a solution that we can definitely decide on and use common sense, get help, and get visitors into a meeting to help us see the best solution. But then you need to take into account the possible indications. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen came with us. There are even children who have only one parent because the other is dead. Of course, the child should not be bitten.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u54	Mr. President. I'd like to start by thanking a transporter and a party to come up with this case. I think it's very good and very important. It has been about the good intentions of society and of an excellent solidarity for a very long time in terms of the need to extend the birthworm and deal with the problems created by not taking this step long ago alive. In this discussion, a few details have been mentioned, making the same interval as when the birthmark finishes until a child reaches a nursery and the inconsistencies and the unfairness in which the gap varies greatly between rural society. It may even vary from country to country. That's very unfortunate. So it is a joy to know that this matter is being submitted. In this context, however, less should be done. Council members of this council have already been presented with other issues, or at least one with comparable factors, i.e. birthworm issues. There's a problem. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir with regard to birth security and such factors. It would be wise for me to consider these things in context. Likely, that would be an assignment. The welfare committee is finding a flat surface so that one universal reform of the maternity law could be done. I think we're all agreed on the need to make improvements, to react to the need for our birthworm to be way too short. As we have seen in the discussion of this matter in the Mosaic Law covenant. Hv. Logi Einar Einar Einarsson noted that although it was in the government covenant, it was better for the council to move it off first and to finish the case. But it comes back to what we must not forget; there are very important members of the community whose situation is enormously high, i.e. Company, workforce members and others. That's where a conversation needs to take place. I think that conversation has, in part, already happened, like, the what's happened. A senator mentioned earlier. Still, we need to examine this matter. The committee will likely have discussions with the above parties. How sad it is that there is no bridge, no connection between the nursery and the maternity. Many have criticized that, as the situation is now, it is entirely in the hands of the locals to simply evaluate it: Should we be interfering with this, do we have something to work on? That's why I think it's important for the lawgiver to come in and discuss it, but in good consultation. I've always felt that the right to maternity is basically in the child's rights. I agree with that. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen in her counter, that it is very important to try to look at each child with his parents for 12 months and that it is as little as possible to cut that time, whether by a second parent simply refusing to take a birthworm or for some reason the child will enjoy only another parent and not get a full 12 months. I think it really needs to take part in the Committee work, for I am convinced that all children should have this right. In the end, it is important not only for the children but also for the family and for the family. This will help us to see what else we could do in that regard, such as shortening the week of work and the rest of the discussion. Hv. A traveler mentioned earlier that this too is a great equal case. That's right. Our united political assignment should be to find ways to make fathers happier to take birthworm too much more than ever, and to get them to take more of their chosen time after events. Because I think it's very important. The increase in maternity pay has been mentioned in this regard. They need to raise the roof in this regard. Of course it will. The welfare committee oversees the matter and finds a point in it, even striving to improve the situation. I think it's very important. I can't wait to get the case on the committee. I trust the members of the Committee are pretty much the same as those here who have spoken, i.e. that they agree that this is a good thing. We need to try to solve it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u55	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his good will. There are some things I'm interested in speaking to him about. First, if people always intend to understand the whole world, there will be no progress. All you have to do is win the little thing in the complex realities we live in. That's the way. This is not random suggestions. Rather, it is a direct step recommended by a committee working together with societies, unions, unions, professional unions, and others. So I don't think there's any point in taking this step. Then humans can accept the birthal aid and all that is needed, and in the end, our legislation will be perfect. But then I'll be dead for a long time. Hv. A senator also speaks of the fact that there is no bridge from the womb in high school. That's exactly part of where we're gonna bridge. If we take the image of a bridge, we'll start on one side of the ocean. Of course, one way would be to finish it all over and go up to 16, 18 months, like Sweden. But the other way is to go up to 12 months now and reach down and help communities. And that's the bridge of the gap. Hv. A senator seems to agree with me that this is a good step. He's talking about the baby's rights. The right child is also associating with both parents. And what a child's right is that in the future there will be equality for the sexes and that a single mother will have as much money as other parents do. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u56	Mr. President. I hope so. paritaprevir The Logi of Einarsson now lasts his age to see as much progress as possible in Icelandic society and that he is not missing it. He is right that it is essential that both parents are put in such a position that they can take a birthworm, but that does not alter the right of the child. Of course, parents also have the right to do so, and there is no disagreement. Regarding solving all knots at once, the senator's words are true that it is not necessary to do everything at once. But when it happens that we have in front of us a government contract and a plan to handle matters and, on the other hand, the existing Senate bill on matters related to this is not surprising to me that the committee is trying to look into matters in some context.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u57	Mr. President. Yes, yes, I hope I have some improvement, but I spoke of not being alive when the perfect world had developed, as I think it is a philosophical paradox that such a defective man could be a part of a perfect world. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] The government covenant says that this is to be considered, but in terms of collective agreements. That's exactly what I'm a tiny ambiguous on and negative. Because I think passionate socialists, socialists, socialists, and liberals should want and want to create a basic system that isn't split when it comes to deciding if you should have 100 bucks or 150 bucks an hour. In fact, that makes you accept only 120 because the State brings in some package that should be self - righteous. That's what I'm worried about. I should have felt that an ambitious left company in the Presidency should have made it a requirement for participation in administrative activities that we would be able to earn more money for child support, higher growth improvements, more housing support, and more than any birthstorm for 12 months, which would be five months, five months, and two decisions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u58	Mr. President. No one will doubt that. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einarsson is a passionate left man. I hope that most of us can at some point in life and in the progress we make during our lifetime as such. But it may be a peripheral optimism, as the senator alluded to. I don't think we should forget, however, that throughout history, the major victories in the nation's vast number of national rights, whether it's birthworm, unemployment insurance, or anything else, have been enjoyed in a very good deal of agreement and cooperation with the labor movement. [[Little steps.]] It is true that the senator noted earlier, that there is a consultation process that has been carried out in connection with the report behind this issue. But it's also that when it comes to cutting the finish line, we always need to talk and talk, and then we're gonna do it like this, don't we? I think it'll be good if you go to this job alone. Whether this is exactly the version that is available here from a birthworm bill will be accepted or someone else I can assure the senator that it was just one of the conditions left in greens set for going to government service, that it was one of the things that were always on the table.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u59	Mr. President. First, I want to emphasize that this is a very positive case as a group of members of the United States. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einarsson tells you what to do. It is clear that there are a number of factors that need to be looked into when it comes to obstetrics: the bridge of maternity and daycare, the child's interests, the child's right to be with parents, etc. I think it's important that there's been a very important argument, such as. for day care measures from an early age; what's best for the child, what's the child's rights, and what's the child's rights. That's all very important reasoning. I'm going to allow myself, and I may not be surprised, to approach the matter out of equal favors. The birth failure system has been pretty good in international comparison. But it can always be done better. It is and has been a cornerstone of employment fairness. What matters is that we need to watch some key factors. One is the length of the womb. The proposal that is based on a group of working men and women. A former general senator and then a social minister, Harðardóttir Hardardddóttir, set up a reasonable approach. A simple way of saying that this is a prolongation of the maternity of men, i.e. 5+5+2. It may be merely extending a mother's birthplace or their right to maternity, as it has been that in the 3+3+33 rule, it is an overwhelming majority of mothers who use the additional rights. The average is, I think, six months to a well over three months of fathers. Sadly, in recent years the father's birth certificate has fallen very rapidly. Therefore, I think this approach, 5+5+2, is reasonable. As a member of the Parliament, we are looking deeply with a positive attitude to that matter. However, more factors need to be looked into. We've got to get to this whole thing. We need to ask ourselves, " Why is it the father's birth certificate to fall so narrow? ' It is, of course, as shown in the case of the day. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson, one problem, i.e. The maximum pay that has been placed on maternity vacations. The fact remains that while we have as much sexual pay as we do, we witness, not only the unexplained amount of pay, but also the fact that in average, men have an average wage of 1,250% higher than women, that it promotes men from taking birth certificates. And this common court is more likely to push a mother than a father. Hence, it must also be considered to increase the maximum wage. They're today I'm thinking 520 of you. K. after an increase in the last year. If we looked at what this system was like before it was destroyed, it would probably have to be between 800 and900 levels. K. At least to have followed up on pay development. Even slightly higher than that. Of course, there is also the cost, which involves righting the birthworm system off so that it works as a means of equality for which it was thought to be originally. That both parents use their rights to birthworm, and that use will not be as sexual as it has been. In this program, we too need to watch. And then there is this wedding of birth orlofs and a day-care plan. Once again, I choose to look at it a little from the equality bar but, of course, respect the other viewpoints that talk about the importance that children can spend as long as possible with their parents. Perhaps the key to this too is that it will be a parent's choice, that parents get more flexibility and eventually decide for themselves how fast they go back to work, but there is a day - care strategy to take over children when parents need them. We know that today's reality is that parents may return to work after a shared birthplace of perhaps 6◯12 months. In fact, in the middle of the matter, people are very eager to try to commit their birthworm by taking partorlof and the like in the present system. But we have to look at the daycare options there, too. I think we must share our eyes so that daycare will be legalised by rural society from a defined age, e.g. 12 months of age. We do not accept that the beginning of basic schooling is somehow a choice for rural society, depending on when they trust to provide it with such resources. A basic school course simply starts at six years of age. We are to look to a daycare program in the same way that parents and children have the right to day care from a certain age. This does not mean that everything will be new from that age but that justice is there. We need to look at even the age of 6 to 12 months, which must be looked to as well, especially on flexibility and good day care or day - care measures during that period, because a number of parents just need it, but they have to go back to work for some reason. These three things need to be kept in mind; the length of the maternity chest, the means to secure the day - to - day care from the end of the ororel and the way we rebuild our birth - reinvestment system. That's why I'm sorry. Minister of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has left because I'd like only to address what has been done there. I thought he was talking rather colicly about how this system has been developed. It is true, of course, that the present birthoral system was established in the reign of Páll the son of Pétursson, which was based on labour agreements. It was really the labour market that agreed, both professional and labor groups, to raise insurance bills by a percentage in order to finance a new birthworm system. This was the initiative of the labour market, and perhaps very unusual, that the labour market was able to add extra spells on the country's job life to finance a good obstetrical system. This has been a far - reaching problem in the labour market. The problem is also that despite the very good work of Eygló Harðardóttir, former social minister, including In the report that provides the basis for the suggestions being made here, it is also so that this same insurance bill was nearly halved. The funds provided for the birth of a stock. As a result, it is quite clear that as we try to improve our present system, we immediately come to the first obstacle, which is that money no longer flows into a feeding ororal reserve that is needed to finance whether it is an increase in or not the extension of the birthworm itself. This must be corrected if we are going to be able to do this with a reasonable ambition. If I recall these numbers correctly, the birth stock is granted about 0.65% of the defined insurance fees today, but it was hardly 1.3%. The suggestions set out by the staff were cost estimates somewhere in the range of 1.13/4.1.2%. It should in itself, by rebuilding the funding, be sufficient for the extension, but it will probably be more likely to try to raise the maximum pay as well. This is of utmost importance when we talk about how we can rebuild and rebuild the birthworm system, that we secure its funding, and that we look at the three factors I mentioned earlier. We must never forget it - and again and again I respect the other viewpoint on the importance of a child's rights to be with parents as long as possible - that we also have to create flexibility for parents. Some are simply not in a position to stay home that long. And the basic thoughts behind the womb, which are ensuring a balance between parents about birth relics, and especially the simple fact that family responsibilities, even to this day, are much more common in mothers than fathers, so women have become far more involved in having children and a good career or career at the same time. That is what we must look forward to when we boast of success in global equality, that this system is one of its cornerstones. We must take pride in furthering it, but consider also that there is no hole inside, e.g. by cutting such maximum pay as has been done. I'm just as focused on that. According to that, although it is meant to look at the whole thing, the steps can also be taken in steps. And this is a good step.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u60	A respectable president. I'm here to celebrate this bill that we're discussing, and I believe we're going to be able to improve our birthal law before it's too long. Hv. A senator was told about equality, which is a key element in the whole of maternity. But I wonder and want to direct him a question about the floor of payment as much as a roof. I have not been able to get to the latest figures and will ask for them, but a part of those in maternity will receive a birth value of 74,926 k. per month. This is what I think the youngest parents seem to be. Isn't it a lot of equality in our society, that these youngest parents who have not even reached the workforce will still enjoy some floors in payments of stocks? Is it not one of the things we need to consider in this regard as to changing the link between employment and the labour market? I believe that in many cases these parents, who are young or even finishing their studies and who have not yet reached the foundation of the work market, will return their jobs to the workplace, even for a longer time than those who accept full obstetric pay, the ones on the roof. So I want to direct that question to why. The senator, if he does not somehow have to turn this approach around. I have to admit, I'm ashamed of myself for this part of our system.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u61	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. That's right, there's holes in the current system. But it also needs to be looked for the birthworm system as it was designed in its time, that the workforce's initiative, is a labour market strategy, designed for the number one, two, and three to improve the loss of income. Of course, some parents, especially young parents, who are not in the job market or in a very limited way, do not enjoy similar favors from this system as do people who come from a full - time job. They do not enjoy similar protection or floor floor care. In fact, it was one of the ideas of this service group that the proposals are based on just the floor of the payment, i.e. ... topayfora$300you. K. If I remember correctly, I wouldn't be impaired. We need to keep in mind that while the maximum amount of money is spoken of, 80% of the pay is always spoken of. I think there are suggestions that can be considered. Regarding the question, do we expand the system and in what way it is right to do so, we need to look to these holes that are in the system today against the low income group? You can, for example. argue that this group will not go to the labour market until later due to birth omission and, of course, may be at considerable expense, natural, in this context. There I think government must look to its own responsibilities. The birth failure system itself was designed to be funded by the labour market with insurance, which would be a labour market plan to improve the loss of income in a labour market. The other is, in fact, on the direct responsibility of the state funds, how we want to connect the escaped insurance of a team with the rights of today's birthworm system.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u62	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson is responding. As a result, I would like to ask myself, " It is the income - stricken group that receives only birth powers, and it is also a group of students who receive the birth span of 170 students, though yours. ' K. Often, people who have even been at work for ten summers or more have paid substantial amounts of insurance but who still do not enjoy having been involved in business in this way. I agree that the government's responsibility is great, but I think the workforce's responsibility is great too, and there's another way to approach it. I'm asking if the senator can agree with me.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u63	Mr. President. I just agree with what. In fact, a senator and I firmly believe that the evidence supports the fact that things have always been like this is never a good reason for having them so necessarily. Of course, this is something we should be able to examine. The system as it is today is based on a reference period that can be severely impaired with summer work or so on. Again, I think we need to look especially at how we are going to meet those who have no income or a low income. We have met students with a higher birth strength, since students'income is often not money but just a student's loan. This needs to be met in some way, for there is a loss of income in the same sense. But this need to be considered, how we can make a special contribution to this busiest or unemployable group.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u64	A respectable president. Hv. A senator called attention to part of the problem of the present system, i.e. how much difference between mothers and fathers taking birthworm According to the data that I have considered, we have interesting figures on the development of this proportion since there was little or no roof before crash and then after roofing. At the time before the roof, before the collapse, the percentage of fathers in the maternity section increased to the level of women. If I don't forget, I don't have the data in front of me right now. Perhaps it will be accurate by the former minister of the seminary. But as soon as the peak was down, it was found that fathers stopped taking or shortening birthworm too much. The same was true of mothers whose income was high, which later came in. They were forced after all to accept the birthmark. I don't have the evidence in front of me, and it'd be interesting if the former Minister of the seminar brought it up. I guess he saw the research that was done on this. These data clearly show that our objective should be to have little or no roof. This will be consistent with the administration of birthworm in mothers and fathers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u65	A respectable president. You're right next door. A senator that in a relatively short time, this has changed greatly to the worse. The original system was thought that there was no roof, just 80% of the pay for a reference period. Whether they were income - rich or low - income items, they would use the full amount of payment in this regard. I believe that it was the birth obligatory bank manager who made that arrangement, causing it to be placed on an defined roof that I think at that time was somewhere in the range of 5,50,600 you. K. It is likely in 2006 or 2007 when this is recorded. And it had a certain effect, but as soon as the roof was severed, down to 300 yous. K. Following the collapse of the economy, it bit very much. This is, of course, so the core of this system is that it should not be a valid decision to take a birthmark. We are actually making sure that people choose to have children, because we also want these factors to promote birth, and that there are no barriers for long - term careers, that the small barriers that we always face as we want to have children, are equal for both fathers and mothers, and those that are equal. I don't think we've ever reached the same position, but at the best, I think, on average, mothers took about 180 days, i.e. 90 of them and the common 90, and fathers took 90. I think we're somewhere around 80 days with fathers today. This had a significant effect right away. Although the maximum financial height was somewhat elevated in 2016, this has not had sufficient effect, since the roof is still quite well under the average income in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u66	A respectable president. We should not forget, too, that this is paid by the amount of pay paid. This coin is actually being raised to draw it back. An unnamed bank manager may have had a high salary and took a lot out of the bank, but he also paid much more. It's only natural because some have more children and others fewer, and perhaps some have many children that they never take back everything they paid in the insurance money they paid. That is something we need to keep in mind. People have already paid the birth strength and payment that they will receive during their maternity vacations. We may be able to think more deeply about the system, that it is more efficient and that it pays better back and how the environment is about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u67	Mr. President. You're right about what you're doing. A senator that is, in fact, some kind of industrial system. We are going through this insurance fee, which was defined at the time, almost 1.3%, to pay a birth - holiday fee, so to speak. Well, it's true that a make-up person pays more cents in this fund, and it actually goes on if I like it. I'm still paying my maternity fees, though I may be rather unlikely to be making use of them from that age. It's just the nature of the arrangement. Hence, in the beginning, there was nothing wrong with the thought that hair or low income, or some kind of roof, should not necessarily be looked at. Rather, people simply had a certain proportion of their income in their maternity vacations. Also, it must not be underestimated by the role of the system, which is the equal friendship, as well as the simple, that this is at least a decrease in income for individuals, and that has the most encouraging influence on childbearing. That may be what we would rather not.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u68	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. Of course, he's very well inside the seminary, and he was a good social and equal minister last year. I'd like to ask a bit about his stay there. But first: What the senator talks about as a flexibility is likely to be that system covering each other so that a parent can determine whether he or she can put the child in daily care or stay at home. I find this interesting. Today, rural society has a high cost of high school space. That's a 1203/4.140 you're talking about. K. for a baby in a month or something, a lot of cost. It would be interesting to know if a minister in his day covered the cost of this bridge construction and which would actually be less expensive, stretching the orchid further, or subtracting the period. It matters. In one way or another, the State will have to come to the time when societies will change their own arrangements. And as a result, I would like to ask if there was a problem or was begun with the rural communities on this particular matter. I know they had a lot of business to discuss, but whether it's been started or not. Hv. A senator presents an interesting view of the equality enemy in this case that I wholeheartedly agree with him.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u69	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The answer to the Logi of Einarsson. Now I have to admit, we hadn't had an expensive dinner yet. I believe, in itself, it is obvious that if we are on average paying for your maternity waivers fees, 400 to450 yours. K. More likely during a month, it will be more practical to come in with a day - care strategy earlier. But I also stress that parents have freedom of choice and have the means to measure what they think their child is best and how best. I also think that this is one of these factors when we talk about flexibility in our global educational system, where we might think a little bit outside the box. We can ask ourselves, " Can I increase my flexibility in the whole system by thinking of daycare and elementary school trips in some combination from 12 months of age, with all flexibility and freedom of choice, until the end of elementary school? ' Even increasing the flexibility of basic schools can be seen earlier. It is quite a challenge for children to leave high school school. It has also been noted that much of what is taught during the past year or two at school, since much is now being taught in preschools, is repeated in part during the first year of high school. You can take a look at this in a convergence. Even a part of the elementary school may take place in the field of high school, which may be more convenient for the children but that we watch this so that it is a curved game from 12 months of age and even to complete a basic school earlier than today. [[The president calls.]] This could be done to meet the expense costs involved in providing early day - care provisions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u70	Mr. President. Yes, when the answer came, it was quite obvious, and perhaps the question was rather foolish. But I agree. I think the school is supposed to be part of a schoolmate, and the state is supposed to come along that way. Many rural societies have naturally started this experiment by walking from high school to high school. Also, it is so amazingly different when it will be convenient for a child to leave a nursery environment and go to high school. It can run in months and even in years of high. I think that would be wise. With the shortening of high school, stopping a little earlier, I think it's wise. In the last 15 years, though, children in Iceland have spent a year and a half taking into account the days of school they attend. But I'm glad I did. A senator takes it well on the bill, and then I hope that it will only work out in the case of the Senate in a moment. paritaprevir Hermes the Brynjar of Níelsson will have taken care of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u71	Mr. President. I agree with what. Senator. I think this case is just very positive. I think we should, in this context, look at the overall context of things. Depending on the individual or the child's background, it is very different when it is appropriate to start basic schooling. Even now, in many cases, preschoolers start school when they are five years old, although the school responsibilities such as those may be from six years of age. It's probably looking for ways to enhance flexibility and opportunities that provide us with a better education system for both children and their parents.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u72	President. This proposal suggests that a map pack will be used to ensure all citizens of the country's land's natural frameworks. This is done by paying each citizen a small amount of money from the state regardless of employment or other incomes. This amount is thought to be a basis for improvement to ensure the economic and social rights that Iceland is contracting to secure under the UN International Convention on Economic, Social, and Culture Rights. Unrecognised infrastructure is also known as civil pay. The basic concepts behind civil pay ideologies are freedom and equality, efficiency and harmony, the earth as the joint property of all the world's people, as well as the share of the joint benefit of technology, the flexibility of the work market and the dignity of the poor, the struggle against unemployment and inhuman working conditions, the struggle against nationalisations, and the inequities between rural communities, the growth of adult education, and the independence of employer and spouses. One of the biggest citizens today is the philosopher Philippe Van Parijs. He puts special emphasis on what he calls "real freedom" to us. It is not only about equal rights but also about equal opportunities and because different circumstances influence the opportunity of individuals to use their rights to give evidence that without equal instruments, we are actually building a sort of virtual freedom. Mr. Van Parijs believes that civil pay brings us closer to real equality with equal opportunities for all regardless of social and economic status. The idea of an unprovable fundamental development has a long history in philosophy and economics and has advocated the idea of being many and coming from different angles. Thoughts like Thomas Paine, Bertrand Russel, Friedrich Hayek, Milton Friedman and Martin Luther King have given their voice to the idea. It is interesting to relate that civil pay experiments have been carried out in several parts of the world through history. For example, in North America, between 1968 and1980, five different attempts were carried out on what was called the ◯Guaranteed Annal Incime, or GAI, a phenomenon of unprovable frameworks. The purpose of the experiments was mainly to investigate the influence of GAI on the labour market, for at that time people were concerned that civil pay would discourage people. The results of these different experiments were surprising, since there seemed to be little impact on the workforce but there was a significant impact on the physical and mental health of people and their opportunities for education. Those who stopped working or reduced their hours were mainly parents who chose to spend more time in the home, and the children and young ones who chose to be educated, thus delaying their arrival in the workforce. Results from the experimental population have been shown to include CYP3A4 and CYP3A4. improved children's outcomes in primary school tests, significantly reduced school leavings, and a large increase in adult re-education. Other findings showed positive effects on birth weight in the high risk groups. In one of the most famous experiments in Manitoba, Canada, there was a large reduction in the number of hospitalisations, especially hospitalisations for accidents, injuries, and mental illness. The rate of health saving during the five years of the study was 8.5%. In recent years, there has been a gradual increase in civil pay discussions, especially in connection with the increase in worlddiversity and technological progress. Now at the beginning of 2018, some 12 studies have already been carried out or entered the organizational level in cities and countries around the world. Releases that unfounded shallows have been implemented in Kenya, Finland, Canada, California, and more will soon be added in Uganda, Spain, Scotland, India, and the Netherlands. The test in Ontario, Canada, is going on to ensure that 2,500 people reach the basic goals in Canada regardless of whether they work or not. The Finnish experiment pays the equivalent of 2,000 unemployed individuals 560 euros a month unremarkable for two years. Experiments in Uganda and Kenya are much larger and include much more in longer periods of time. In the United States, Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton have expressed both their interest in citizens. In June of last year in Hawaii, the U.S. government bill Chris Lee approved that civil pay be viewed as part of a larger discussion about the future of the State. Three months later, the mayor of Stockton, California, declared his plans to start an experiment with a civilian wage in Stockton. Also, loud voices have been heard from the Shisil Valley west of the ocean, and individuals such as Elon Musk, Mark Zuckerberg, and Sam Altman have been observed, referring to the importance of the fact that there will be a real basis for a future in which much of the work we know today will be self-activated. Sam Altman has gone so far as to finance his company, Y Combinator, an early study of the citizens of Oakland, California, as a warm-up for a larger study to begin this year. As noted by Carl Benedikt Frey and Michael Osborne of Oxford University, a report published in the United States has found that 47% of workers are at risk of self - activity in the next two decades. In poorer countries such as India, this number is much higher than 69% and up to 77%, in China. A report by World Economic Forum gives evidence that new employment opportunities will develop and form a balance due to the loss, but this will still have to do with the estimated total loss of jobs by 2020 over five million jobs in the 15 major developed and growing economic systems of the world. Katja Grace of Future of Humanity Institute, Oxford University, conducted a report, i.e. A study asked experts of the world's top artificial intelligence when they felt that machines developed superiority over humans in various fields. North American experts estimated that this would happen after 74 years, but their peers in Asia see it happen in just 30 years. Whatever the case, before long, artificial intelligence will overtake people in most areas if not in all respects. The McKinsey Institute released a report in the last month, where they estimate the loss of jobs with automation. It also shows that new jobs will be very likely to take over, but the need for increased financial support is emphasized during this transitional period of workforce. People will need this help. Not only to compensate for lost income because of loss of employment but also to add to the income of those who have a low salary is known and the expected side effects of the changes that are taking place in our economy. McKinsey Institute for Civil Remuneration meets these needs and specifically shows that experiments carried out under unprovable core development in Canada and India showed no significant decrease in people's working hours, but a significant increase in quality of life, health, parentsorfs, pioneers, education and authority of women. Adam Smith Institute, a mentalist or bloc of liberals, has recently published a report entitled Unrequired Basic Progress around the world: the unexpected benefits of unprovable financial contributions. Or as it is called in English. It strongly recommends that civil pay be checked and further efforts be made. Following this report, her author, Otto Lehto, said: ▪ Distinguishing basic progress makes well - being services easier, increasing independence, and self - determination of individuals. Allowing less - and - poor citizens to make the most of their money as they think will reduce the unnecessary interference of the government and further its own marketing solutions. Most of the welfare systems of developed countries are complex, heavy, and freckles on employees within the government. Despite being the sole lifeline of many users, the experience of people from the world's well - being systems of the Western world is exceptionally negative. With the recording of unprovable fundamentals, there is an opportunity to reduce the share of the State by the fate of its citizens, to reduce the administrative costs, and to reduce the number of public employees. In turn, these workers would have, in the strength of uncompliance, a chance to grow and thrive in other jobs. The experience of those who rely on the welfare system will likely be much more positive, endowing the government's interference with the fate of its subjects. At the same time, the State government is fulfilling its basic obligation to provide citizens with minimal success. A recent loss has been done to reimburse the social security system. Among other things, changes in social security laws were made at the end of the Council of 145th. Is it hope that the results of the work proposed here could lead to opening and developing a discussion about the future of the social security system? The idea presented here is radical, but it does not suggest that in the process of opening up unproved basics, but that professional analysis work be carried out to suggest that the implementation of such services may become valuable to the discussion that has taken place over the past few years. It is important to open the discussion and bring a new view of ideas of advancement and development, especially in the light of the grand changes that we as a society will see in the years to come. Civil pay is not merely a response to technology but, above all, as a weapon against poverty and its complications. When people have floors to stand on rather than roofs that they succumb to, freedom is created to make decisions that are not based on need, i.e. what people are forced to do to make ends meet rather than people's desire to live a meaningful life and thus associate with their inner purpose, experience themselves as shareholders in the community. Complications of poverty are many and serious. Studies conducted in the lives and circumstances of the poor clearly show how serious the consequences of poverty are in the community as a whole. The lives of the poor are characterized by a great deal of spiritual stress, distress, and degradation, leading to a loss of self - respect, grief, anxiety, and a breakdown in mental and physical health. Since poverty contributes to individuals, including children, coming to grips with their social trains, losing competitiveness, and thus not enjoying the opportunities and quality that are considered normal in society. The fight against poverty in Iceland is not merely a matter of improving the interests of small and limited members of society but of basic human rights, equality, dignity, and democracy that would improve society for everyone. The fight is about the real freedom that comes from growing economic and social rights, increasing independence that is won when government media management is reduced, and increasing privacy when the surveillance is unnecessary. Heavy and complex systems, such as we now live, have a very serious and negative influence on democracies, where they restrict people's access to essential information about their rights so that they can be active participants in democracy. Without transparency and easy access to information, democracy is only shown to those who do not know how to resolve the complications of the system. The world is developing, and we cannot afford to resist that trend in the long run. What determines whether certain trends are negative or positive to society is our ability to see where we are heading and to face the inevitable trend and to prepare. Iceland's history contains numerous examples of its adaptability to changing life - style with amazing speed. In this country, all conditions are required to give serious consideration to the unwillingness of basic exemplary progress. A well-educed, high-school, high-skilled, high-skilled society, a fairly diverse variety of employment life, not too large or too small, and a high level of education, as well as a high level of employment. Iceland can easily become a pioneer of the road many scholars, both liberal and socialism, agree that in the coming decades, it is inevitable. It is my sincere hope that this body of Congress will be well supervised and that we will begin to view the willingness of citizens' wages as part of a greater discussion of the future of the development and economy of our Icelanders. I look forward to taking the matter to the welfare committee and discuss it there.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u73	A respectable president. I want to begin by saying that I have been through the years a significant skeptic of civil pay. I still want to thank you. A senator for bringing this matter to the council. Despite my doubts about things, they can be very helpful, and they may be considered at the pros and cons of such an arrangement. This is not just a discussion in this country. Rather, we see that talking about civilian pay is beginning to take place in many of our neighboring countries. Of course, the challenge is described, i.e. The rapid changes that will follow the fourth industrial revolution, a significant decrease in the number of conventional jobs as noted, well, most agree on them. These are real changes that we are simply going through today. What I'd wonder and ask. First of all, if we just look at the tremendous change in our society in this country and just the industrial revolution of the past, there's been a huge change in the lives and jobs of people. The move from rural areas to urban areas, industrialisation and all these changes. To date, it has proved true that new jobs have unproved to replace lost ones without exception. Although it is now predicted that changes could become even more rapid, it is also based on a technological revolution that is quite likely to result in something else, creation that we simply cannot foresee. Is there reason to be as worried about this, and is the underlying thought that we have large groups of society out of work simply because there will be no jobs for them? [[The president calls.]] Won't we just create them in other aspects of society, like so far?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u74	President. Thank you. A senator's question. There are differing opinions when it comes to this. This is one of the factors affecting the impact the technological revolution will have on a future society, not known. This is shown in different reports. Most of these reveal that new jobs will exist. I think it's very likely. The question is, What will we do during this transition, where the workforce is changing? It affects our economy. Are we prepared for this when jobs begin to expire, and people may not have an education to do other work? The idea of this proposal has always been that we start thinking about these things, so we're not always in the position to be just reacting when things happen. That we are willing to accept such ideas that many countries around us take very seriously and take a real look. Because it's also a choice. This is not a question of the need for civilian pay, that we need it. It is also a matter of choice. Can we offer you a burger? And if we can do that, is that possible for society? Would it be good to do that? What effect would this have on society and the motivations and people in society and the system? Such things are so interesting to me. It's worth considering that idea because it could possibly be a great solution for the future Iceland community. Maybe not. But it is worth it, especially in view of the fact that now a future committee, which I think is going to be a great idea, is to take these ideas and consider them seriously so that we are ready for what comes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u75	Mr. President. I just agree with what. A senator says that this is something we need to be seen in. We need to examine carefully the consequences of the foretold great and fast changes. I believe they're not predicting much of the situation. I think, for example. that it is quite clear that in such rapid changes in employment, based on a revolution of knowledge, the education of the system needs to be very important and, especially, ongoing education. We can expect that our children and ourselves will be far faster than ever before. We need to take in the habit of learning and to gain new knowledge throughout the years of life. Our education will never end in this environment. What I am thinking, however, in this context, and I ask a senator if she is not worried about the fact that when we think about the boundless production, it's a matter of concern. I'm very supportive that we have a community security network, that we catch, for example. those who fell off the labour market temporarily went through the unemployment insurance system. Of course, the strongest driving force in us is some sort of self - survival endeavor. We saw recently that we went through economic disasters, and if you could describe them, there was a tremendous increase in innovation and evolution and the creation of new jobs where qualified people who had lost their jobs began to create something. That is why I wonder: " Do not be afraid. ' A senator did not say that an irresistibly shallow advance this will reduce the power of innovation, self - preservation efforts, if we want to call it, that it weakens such efforts in people?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u76	President. Worried. There have been many instances of a senator. However, research has shown that this has a counterargument. Indeed, the results of the studies that have been carried out and are being carried out today were so remarkable! Civil pay encourages innovation. If we think it logical, if we think about the safety net, to have unprovable shallow progress, in English it is called, excuse the sleigh, the Adventist capital for the popele, People there are suddenly able to develop new ideas without worrying about not making ends meet. There are a lot of people who do some work they don't really like, but they have to win it because they have to pay the bills. As a result, after a long day's work, people have very little energy to do what is truly exciting to them. The man we lose over there - we're missing so much. I think and research shows that people are much more ready to try new things and go into innovation, start their own business and go into business with this security network, when they know that if things go wrong, they'll still be in and out.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u77	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to say anything. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's son, Víglundsson's son, says I'm an agnostic. I think it's completely ridiculous. I don't like social experiments, as men tried socialism in the last century. I think this community experiment would be even worse and more damaging. But what's in it for me is how to connect it to some kind of social security. Social security is thought to be a base advance for those who cannot earn money. Why should we use common funds to make it available to qualified individuals with high incomes, or whatever it is, to have money from a common fund? That thought is so crazy. Of course, we are to ensure all basic progress that for some reason cannot earn, i.e. They may temporarily lose their job, they cannot work, and so forth. But linking this social security and that this has something to do with poverty and saving her something -- Of course, it's not going to save her anything. Those who cannot earn or lose their jobs for some reason already make minimal progress. I can't say that when men witness half-dead or long dead philosophers who try to tell us what to do, they always experience anxiety. Because everything they have said throughout history has proved to be more and less wrong. Karl Marx is a good example.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u78	President. Thank you. For an interesting answer, a senator finds that there is trouble. A senator has not studied the ideas of civilian pay sufficiently. But this is a very common misunderstanding, and that is exactly why it will be exciting to go to this study and open up a discussion. For example, is Milton Friedman - not a sort of godfather of liberalism? - It's called a negative income tax. Which is civilian pay, it's the same thing. It's just a personal discount paid out to those who don't use it. The others don't get that money. It's the same with the civilian pay. If you have a high income, you don't take anything out of it, you put it in. It's just a matter of creating floors, a safety network for people to stand on so that they have ensured basic progress that would give them the freedom to live their lives as they please. At the same time, we take on a very complex, complex system and simplify it completely and give people control over their lives. But this is never a matter of getting money from some common fund, since those who have money are apparently always paying back. If we want to take a look at this in such a way that a personal discount would be raised to some form of basic wages, those who don't have a job would get paid and others would pay taxes. It's an innocative income tax◯ as Milton Friedman called it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u79	V.E.G. President. In view of this description, anything is not being simplified. We must not forget, because we are now even emotional and we cannot be placed in an excel-tail. Just thinking of getting something from a common fund without having anything against it, just because I want to live my life the way I want to live it, it's very damaging. It subtracts all human impulse to create value. Because I just want to do what I like to do. It's harmful to these things, just as they thought with socialism, that things could be put in plans, and that the people should act like that, which they obviously don't. I'm not going to participate in another community experiment. It was enough to have to listen to all of this at the University of High School of Hamrahism at the time. I'm not going to take more of this sort of experiment, and I think we should just consider being rather encouraging, positive and securing it in a better way than we do today, of course, by having a better and powerful job life, and that as many people share in it, we can give proper support to those who are involved and need basic living. We need to do better in this regard. But that will only happen to most of us, and all of us, as possible, will share in creating valuable things, not playing with our lives as we would like to have them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u80	President. I'd like to follow a comment. paritaprevir Emess Níelsson's son making this a matter of looking at this idea and keeping it as far as the future is concerned because we can't now see what will happen, we don't know. We need to start looking ahead. But I would also like to report that in countries where experiments in this subject have been carried out, they demonstrate a contrary conclusion. A senator says. In Namibia an experiment was made with irresistibly shallow progress. The number of reported crimes dropped to the police by 36.5%, the percentage of undernourished children fell from 42% to 10%, the school exit dropped by 42%, the unemployment rate decreased from 60% to 45%, and the sector grew. The average income, apart from the grants, increased by 29% and the number of new enterprises was formed. That's the story of all these experiments on conditionless fundamentals of progress. It has a positive effect on people's motives, not negative. 'Cause in spite of ideologies, why not? Most people want to do good for society, want to be participants, want to be shareholders in society. We do not have to have a whip on people to force them to do things they do not want to do. All we need to do is create an environment with the motivation for people to behave in the community in a way that gives everyone the opportunity to thrive. I reiterate that this is an idea that is being talked about all over the world and taken seriously. Why can't we take this idea seriously and examine it? So I don't see any resistance.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u81	A respectable president. It is interesting to consider recent examples of warnings that have been presented in connection with the civil pay discussion. You can, for example, do so. mention the company at Amazon Go, where there is a store with no employees. There people just take goods on the shelf and walk out and get their jars on their phone or on their Amazon account. It happens automatically. It is worth considering that technology progresses and speeds are involved. Let's start, for example. on the 1440 press, which is the beginning of industrial revolutions. 60 years later, the printing press had become quite widespread in Western Europe. Some 200 years later, the printing press is in general use throughout the world. The number of books printed is then multiplied. But it will take these 200 years for this new technological revolution to spread worldwide. Don't hang me if you're historians, but these are about numbers after a short notice. Let us press forward to modern times. First smart phone: 2000. There's some speculation that it's been a little earlier, but 2007 comes on the phone. We know the transmission of the smartphone, how it has become enormously rapid. Seven years from the first smartphone until he got into general circulation. Seven years by 60 years and up to 200 years ago. The technological advances we experience no longer occur in decades, not in human life, but just within a decade. The world we are born into now surely is not the world we die from. It is very recent in human history. So far, man has simply lived and died in the same world. That's not true anymore. We need to think about fast - moving technology and the effects it has on society. The advances in technology are so fast that we don't have them. Hence, it is far more important to look ahead and see what may come to be a little ready. I say, for example. About this store, Amazon Go, that it is not just seven years before this technology becomes much more widespread. I'm gonna predict it's gonna be sooner because technology progresses faster. Not only will it be within the public grocery stores but this technology will become much more widely used and will spread to more types of stores, companies and services. I mention, for example, that now we have some sort of low-level, low-level, or less artificial intelligence. It is artificial intelligence that is specialized in certain areas. Can play chess, may play Go, but maybe you don't know both, and you can just recognize dogs in imaging, or you've become a little more general than that. The development from these artificially defined to a broad range of artificial intelligence, so-called AGI or Howantal intellence, is something that we may experience right now. All the sciences in this regard tell us that this brand of artificial intelligence, general artificial intelligence, gets by us without us noticing it, for what follows her, her machine, is highly artificially detected, arable superpower. It is artificial intelligence that can produce and perform tasks that we have not even considered. This may be a scary world for any of us, including me, because you don't know what will happen in the future. We've tried going back to the past or to the future, where we've seen a world that we're familiar with, but we're surprised at how different it is from our world, despite not so long. Perhaps it was just our parents or grandparents who lived at that time. It's not that long since the Wild West was called. It is much shorter for the world to be quite different from what it is today, considering how far it has passed since the time of the wild West. It's a bit intense to think about. So it is not later good to consider testing the national pay that is being done worldwide. If so, it is good to mention that in several areas, proposals for civilian pay have been made. For example, at a meeting point of increased prosperity, there was being suggested a personal discount made by several members of the council at the council for the last election. It's civilian pay. This is not revolutionary, but a personal discount that we know very well is just an irresistibly shallow advance, except that now we have one condition, you have to pay a income tax. If you don't pay enough income tax, you'll lose your identity discount. I asked a few of the councils since about how much personal discount fell every year. That was about 12 billion. Half the amount goes to young people, mostly 16,520 years old, usually at school and less at work. What's interesting about this age and, in fact, younger people who don't work and are in school, is that their personal discount today is very similar to a full loan from the LIN if you live in your parents'homes, it takes about one month over the year. Instead, we'd have a personal discount, where all the personal discounts you get over a year would just take your pocket instead of LIN. That's a bit of an interesting thought. Consider, for example: There is quite a lot of work at high school, shops, and so forth, which definitely takes note of the study. And we have a very high exit. The job program will no doubt have an impact on desertion, as shown in the introduction above. We would thus have a much more efficient high school system. We would return much more powerful students to their job life and they would not have debts on their backs. We are not so far from this period of time in the system we are in today, with a personal discount we know very well, and we are not so far from the time when these young people work in stores today will not exist. Where, then, will we be?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u82	Mr. President. I would like to propose a synopsis of the national condition to improve the interests of women's classes. With me, all members of the council are revered, and all the members of the United States, as well as fierce. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunns Gunnarsson of the Council of Pirata. We will be told how we amass gender pay at a job market and, in fact, not just the sex - income wage, i.e. that women receive the ensuing pay for the same job as men, as well as how we can take on the enormous amount of pay that exists between men and women in general. The difference is reflected in a report made between the government and the labour market partners, that women generally receive a salary less than men. This, in turn, is reflected in a far fewer pension rights. In addition to a much lower salary in the full - time ministry, it is still so, as we discussed earlier today the family responsibility in women far more than men, which means that their participation in a workforce is usually shorter than men. Thus, as many as one third of women's pension rights as men are at the end of a job market are less than one - third of their pension rights. The above - mentioned report of the workforce's partners in cooperation with the government and from the Office in cooperation with these parties reveals that our workforce is extremely sexual. We see very large women's classes, e.g. in social services, health care and education; the proportion of women of the total staff of the relevant professional population is about 80%. The report also shows that there may be one of the main covariates in terms of men and women's salary, that these classes are transverse to considerably inferior but comparable classes of employment, where comparable education is required, while the sex ratios are considerably different and that they work in much of the male population. This is a subject that we have to deal with in some way. No doubt you can ask: Is this not the work market subject? Isn't this just the free right to the party to negotiate the purchase and the terms? No doubt this is true, but it should be thought that these classes work primarily in the public, state, and rural society. Therefore, it is the responsibility of these same employers, State and rural society to ensure that the remuneration rates for these groups are comparable to those in a labour market for other employment groups with comparable education and similar responsibilities. If we continue with only free contract rights in this context, it may also be noted that in the general labour market, pay tends to increase beyond the type of collective agreements to seek balance between supply and demand. This is far less likely in the public where collective agreements are much more permanent, the pay system for public institutions far more permanent and unchangeable than in the general labour market. This is reflected in another problem, which is in common with all these classes, a serious shortage of employees in these important classes or professions. The importance of health care, social and educational services cannot be minimized, but everywhere we see the same dangers, i.e. they're not staff. We know this well from our daycare talk. We are well - acquainted with the educational system's ability to employ individuals with the required education. We are equally familiar with this in our health - care system, where we have the same problems. With the three classes I discussed here, there is one important factor common, i.e. that about or within 50%, or half, of those educated for these activities in these sectors. I think we have to face up to the fact that there is an obvious market failure to get paid on this market. We simply are not paying these groups in line with responsibilities, qualifications, and opportunities elsewhere. This needs to be taken. And then, when it comes to the fact that this is one of the largest covariates that women are on a significantly inferior employment market in general than men, we can no longer stick our heads in the sand. This is not an easy subject, of course, if it were, we would have fixed it long ago. This requires cooperation with the entire labour market. We know the history of the workforce over the years, indeed, the decades, i.e. to meet the requirements of pay, correction requirements, individual groups, such as this one, very much will meet the salary requirements of everyone else in the labour market. It takes a concerted effort between the government and the labor movement of all, both in public and public labour markets, to distinguish the amount of pay there, this sexual amount between these important groups, how we can correct their position, what is needed, and that other groups agree to the need for this correction, and would be respected by other groups in a labour market. So we suggest here at the World Council of Economics and Economic Affairs to conduct discussions with the labour market partners and the European Union for special initiatives, nationalities, on the improved pay of women's classes. The campaign includes the implementation of a unique labour agreement to improve the salary of these classes. They will be consulted in an analysis of the salary of large groups of women, such as teachers and health care professionals, as compared to other classes with comparable education and responsibilities that work for the government. Based on this analysis, a special agreement will be made to correct the terms of these classes, which includes specific increases in addition to general labour contract increases. This will come as a separate side accord agreement, which, hopefully, would meet them and seek to achieve such solidarity among the major unions within the labor movement, while agreeing that these special increases will not be the basis for the pay of other professions. I hope that here at a council, there can be an extensive agreement on such action. I think it's really important to us in the equal talk. We are, as I have said before, with a very sexual labour market. It is shameful to look to how we become worthy of these important jobs, but it is generally customary in similar jobs elsewhere in a workforce. I really can't say that when you look at this problem, it's kind of like the government never had time to deal with it. Surely, then, these classes have something more common than to be highly educated women's classes, many classes. Because these are huge groups, we know that changing their terms will cost us costs. But we're talking about basic health and education systems. We cannot provide quality resources for daycare without having qualified pre-school teachers in the field of work, a sufficient number of them. We cannot offer the powerful educational system and the investment that we have to make in our educational system in the years to come, as discussed earlier today, when we discussed challenges with the fourth industrial revolution and a greater demand for education than we have ever learned. This will be no different from being qualified as teachers. In our health system, there is an ever - increasing need for health care because of the nation's aging. This once again requires more people to function in the medical system. Nor will we be satisfied unless we have a fine supply of qualified people. There is also increasing concern that there is a reduced attendance at study in these articles. That is an obvious sign that my pay level is simply too low. All comparisons also show that sex - based pay is largely attributable to these classes. It is obvious that we pay comparable men and women in terms of responsibility and education considerably higher than these important classes. This requires and must be taken, and we must be prepared to provide the necessary funds. I hope for this, there may be widespread convergence here at the council and wide community partnerships; the necessary cooperation with the workforce, the labor movement, to create the reconciliation necessary to raise the capital and correct these terms. This could be an excellent advantage because this is an important step toward the government's public goal to eliminate sex pay from the labour market here in 2022. I hope to have a good cooperation with other members of the council on this matter and wish it will be followed by this discussion with the General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u83	A respectable president. Here's a suggestion that I find very important and that introduces a case that we need to take seriously if we are to achieve equality in a workforce. This suggests how we can approach the matter that I think is worthy of all thought, and I look forward to further discussion. This matter is not just part of work on equality, it is also closely linked to future scientific policies in the country, not just for building the foundation but also part of the way we have to be educated. Today in previous discussions, people have been talking about the fourth industrial revolution and the future, they will build on technology, but perhaps where there is a greater need for educated workers and higher education is in caring for things, they are growing on a global scale. In the fall, the international body of female leaders was held there. A representative of OECD, who had a direct goal of trying to increase the number of people in nursing school in the world. This is one of the most important tasks to be done, and this is true of all caring for. This suggestion also moved me to look back on a discussion that I recorded here on March 24, 2015, about the arrangements for nursing homes, many of which offer part - time jobs, 80% jobs, nothing else. Because of savings, however, the pressures are so intense that 80% of the workers are really doing enough. I want to ask the senator if he has studied this arrangement specifically at this job and if part of it doesn't have to be watching abbreviated work week in shift work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u84	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Of course, it is true that these classes, especially the health professions, have a lot of work loads and are often built on a shift environment that can be very fragile. That's one of the things you need to look into in this context. I think it's important to consider how we develop such a shift work environment, but that may be more of a subject for the employer, as this can, of course, be very different from the workplace. Of course, it is only a fact when looking to the workplace, such as the Land Hospital, that part - time work is very prominent and expected solutions that need to be determined, since some of the solution is simply possible to put the hospital into a decent place. We talked about the civilian pay or unprovable implementation of the above, and the fact is that our work time has been getting shorter. In effect, by the decades the growth in industry has shifted between the increase in pay and the hours of work, and I believe that this trend will continue. Short work hours are under pressure and may become part of the solution if there is a decrease in job activity following the fourth industrial revolution. I think that when these important groups come first and foremost, they are being looked for the basic wage and the potential for earnings in the particular class to be in line with both educational requirements and the high responsibilities and pressures involved in these jobs. As far as education is concerned, I agree with what. A senator, the importance of this will grow ever more. As we develop more and more rapidly in society, our education system is always put to the test.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u85	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. Perhaps I intend to continue with the arrangements for the nursing homes, which undoubtedly apply to other areas, in a certain way, as a means of saving, led to a decrease in the person's employment rate and primarily the number of women, those who were in the lowest paid. The work programme was changed so that it actually took more trips to the workplace to achieve a comparable work ratio. I think it's one of many things to look at. Of course, the basic wage is the main focus, but there are a number of other factors that need to be considered in the working environment of these classes, and they just want to point this out for the Commission's discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u86	Mr. President. Let me just admit that I know less about this shift and work environment when it comes to the nurses. Here we are trying to distinguish between this general labour contract environment and, by some means, the worktime arrangement, the shift arrangements, and the other aspects of the discussion, how to raise these classes in special terms. I think it's very important, for the other is a match with a number of other classes, since this challenge, especially this pay level, may not be there. The arrangement for lifting the women's classes in this way needs to be met by independent reconciliation with other labour agreements. It is cool that there will be some sort of contract to set aside special raises to these groups while lifting them to a level of pay comparable to that of a class with comparable responsibilities.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u87	A respectable president. I realized when I listened to what I heard. A senator's recommendation is that there was a possibility that he might have been given a wrong name for it. Here we are referring to the proposal for a resolution of national agreements to improve the interests of women's classes, but the senator repeatedly spoke of correction. Correction of the chosen classes which have been kept down by the system. So I'm going to read better terms for correcting the benefit of women's classes because it's the key. We're correcting a recession that's been going on for way too long. This isn't the first time we're standing in this pit, me and what. Senator, we'll talk about the fight against sexual pay. We were here less than a year ago to be equally paid witness, which is a second step toward the elimination of sexual wages. There are many steps to take, perhaps taking excessive time, sometimes feeling that you are taking on too little of the problem or what it is. But all of this has to happen. I'd like to ask you what. Senator, because in his first role as Minister of Equal Opportunities, I expect he has gained a little insight into the system. That's what's up. A senator sees some idea of how long it takes to make the analysis suggested? He mentioned that there will be some major action that will need to be followed. Does he have any idea of the scope of time and on a different scale?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u88	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. About a year ago, we had a good conversation about the same pay date. I agree that the equally paid witness is just a very powerful tool to eliminate sexual pay, but as we discussed, it is not the only tool, and it is not enough, and it is not all about how we are going to be destroyed. It adapts to sexual wages in the workplace, not between commercial interests, or classes, as is meant here. I don't think this in itself has to be a very time-consuming project for analysis. A large amount of these data are already available. The work between the government and the labour market partners has been very efficient for many years in a group against sexual pay. I don't think it should take a very long time to analyze it, but of course you need to dive a little bit in it, and this may vary between individual classes, etc. so that it needs to be employed to analyze it. It's just that it's very important for people to be on a firm foundation, to agree that it's the film, that's how it goes, that's the kind of project that needs to be corrected, like that. A senator says exactly right, because I think that's exactly the case. We're simply talking about how the remuneration of these important classes was just not working with comparable groups in the labour market. I think that's the fact, and we need to face it. We are also facing the problem that has resulted from what has happened in all these classes as a designer. That's why it's very important to deal with this. As I say, the analysis needs to be thorough, but it doesn't have to take very long. How long it will then take to implement such correction, but over two to four years it should be possible to take a very firm step in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u89	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. This may be all about the public shouldering the responsibility of not only being the person who puts the laws and rules but also being the largest professional authority in the country and acting the way we do with the legislatator expect others to do. That's why I'm doing something about the wording in the motion. Compared with other classes of education and responsibilities employed by the public is being made up of the proposal. 19th degree. Justifications, about pay equals, are said to be equally paid by women and men working for the same employer and to have the same vote for the same or equally valuable jobs. I kind of feel like this is gonna say the whole thing. So I wondered if we are here to consider whether the public is, in effect, the great employment force, not breaking the 19th floor. Equalization and long-term action.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u90	Mr. President. You're right about what you're doing. A senator, who points to equality in this context, is obliged to pay the same salary for equally valuable jobs, regardless of gender. Our problem in this context and in the situations that have been put to the test in this article is that the comparison of equally valuable jobs is extremely difficult. There is no basis for any overall worthation of jobs in the labour market or in the public. Therefore, it is very difficult for individuals to get their rights if they feel that they have a wrong, unless they can refer to - e.g. If a woman brings up a matter against the State, she must be able to refer to a man who has a similar age, the same education, and has exactly the same job that she has to do in order to demonstrate the possibility of injustice in this context. Of course, that's part of this job. The equally rewarding witness changes the thinking somewhat and requires employers to be worthy of their jobs, even if they may appear to be different at first sight, they are equally valuable. That is part of the thought we need to act on in this context.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u91	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Wazowski's Víglundsson for his discourse and for his couriers for this fine synopsis that I find worthy of all attention. I guess, like what. A senator spoke of, that there is great peace in this world whether it is improving or correcting the interests of the women's classes. I assume that there may be a fine deal to it in the community. But I'd like to ask you why. A senator, for he has had a lot more experience with a collective contract interview than I do, whether he also has real faith in the possibility that these will be followed up. That is why I must say in my part that I am excited to see what kind of reviews may be made by the Parliament's consonants. I often find the discussion easier to say about what people want, but somehow it seems that it's all difficult. I heard why. A senator only came into agreements, and I have sometimes just wondered if the collective contract arrangement somehow is actually paying people according to collective agreements, that it's the problem, and that's what held women under pay. Because according to the survey we see, it is usually that if men are higher in pay, it is often because of something other than a taxanes, not as if it is the same as it is, but as some additional tracks, overtime, or the kind that increase the sex above the other sex in pay. Why do you wonder, " Is this our collective agreement arrangement just over? '
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u92	Mr. President. These aren't little questions for a man. Senator. First of all, what can be expected in response, I carried this idea, the methodology, what should I say, under some old managers in the labour market, perhaps the labor side first, whether they think it could work out and get a positive answer to it, but of course it doesn't come out until it's tested. I think that there is a general desire for the labor movement and the leadership of the labor movement to deal with this, and I think there is also a rich understanding that this will be done differently than that the labor movement should commit itself to accept the specific corrections or adjustments made there. Otherwise, we just end up in one more dolphin race, we can say, one round of it, and everybody in the same place afterwards, so it's a huge problem. I think we've seen this in recent discussions, even further, that our work ethic is, of course, mispronounced. The real problem may be, especially when compared between the public and the general labour market, and if I remember this correctly, the other kind of pay contracts in a general labour market may be 60% of the total wage development. Then there is something else, and we also know that men ask for a raise more often than women do, and they also get yes more often when they ask for a raise than they did for women. I think it's built-in, I'd say an unconscious tail, hopefully, but limp, and it doesn't reflect merit or how much people deserve the pay raise. But this is part of the apparent withdrawal of unions, which are high demand in the public labour market. We can see that a number of well - educated people in this field, whether in health, education, or other educational matters, are working in a far better way than they would offer in the type of jobs they were educated in.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u93	A respectable president. I thank the Senator for his comments. Then I'd like to ask. A senator on a job position and work schedule, as was only discussed in the past, and perhaps not least the comments of the new president of the Teacher Union. I know how to be wrong, it's the head of a high school teacher's community, and I'm afraid I can't handle it. An interview with a new president this week showed that the principal challenge of the Teacher Union would have to be made out of the collective agreements a separate teaching frame or presence. I want to know how to react. A senator with this playoff at one of our largest women's classes, as well as a better education, which in his private business seems to focus primarily on reducing family obligations at work rather than going to straight-up raises, if I understood them a statement correctly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u94	Mr. President. I have to admit to that. A senator that I don't have much expertise in this and might even drive home people crazy if I wanted to express myself a lot about it. I heard about this interview, I didn't see it, in the newly elected president of a college school teacher's community. And I understand where she's going with her lawsuit. I think it is generally possible to say about the collective agreement between a primary school teacher, and a high school teacher, that there is too much inflexibleness in working hours, the school responsibilities and the like, because pressures can vary greatly from textbooks, classes formulations, etc. and that perhaps there is a greater need for flexibility. Teachers can, for example. Work hard or easy for class or easy, and young teachers may need less teaching than older and more experienced teachers, etc., where there is a lack of flexibility. [[The president calls.]] I understand the argument behind this. But I think there's a completely independent discussion around this one.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u95	Mr. President. I'd like to agree with this synonym, even though I'm thinking about things that don't appear there. I think it's a very good connotation proposal, i.e. that the benefit of women's classes can be extended to national groups. Working on it is a very worthwhile task. What I've been thinking about, when I've been reading this suggestion, is that I feel that mention had the power of women in many other classes; women who may not be professionals, low-payers in various classes of care, shops, services, and fish industry, to name something. This includes identifying the salary of large classes, and particularly of teachers and health professionals, as compared with the other classes with comparable education and responsibilities and is well reported. But I would like to see that this refers to women in a number of other classes, women who have been paid very low and who have been through the years, as well as to women who are doing unsalaried jobs in homes, jobs that are not appreciated. We can also name women in rural areas. Over the years, women have done many jobs and have worked hard without any income. Indeed, it is urgent to cultivate a solid sense of solidarity over such efforts. The movers of this proposal come from these categories, exorbitant, Convergence and Pirates. On the other hand, I believe that even if it can be corrected, members of Congress agree with this suggestion. Of course, the first transporter, the Þorsteinn Víglundsson, knows well in this sector as the former head of the Work force. The present was a long labor struggle for many years and for those low - paying classes and thus large groups of women. I'd love to hear from it. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson whether this discussion has taken place within the business community. Sadly, for some 20 years in a labor struggle, I felt that because of my wanting to have a lack of business life, these women's groups were especially out of their heads and looked to their fellow men and raised them above other classes, who had come to a better shelter with their struggles. Of course I'm not minimizing the will of a man. A senator to work on this case now as a seated senator, far from there. But he knows from within these sectors how the culture and atmosphere have been. You have made some attempts to take these lowest paid classes out of parentheses, that comparable clovers or retails do not pass over the entire pay ladder, and that has the right angle. More often than not, the majority of the women's classes are these low - paying classes, that's just the reality. Then we are referring not only to well - educated women's classes but also to classes that are not lovers of love, although they women have even received training in the form of courses and various kinds of instruction. These women may not have completed a formal exam in certain legal jobs, but they still have much knowledge and are doing responsibilities. I'm afraid that if unskilled women in the health system, travel services, and fishing work, I'm not saying that there's no professional knowledge, but maybe less formal education behind them - the whole society would be more or less paralyzed. Such is the reality. These women may not have had the mastery of combating their interests, have not received special attention, or have gone up beyond the social elevations that have been fought for over the years. Everything's fine that we've won. In the context of the committee, I would also like to be viewed to these women, who may be called Eva's dirty children - I don't know if I should say so, but it's a fact that I use that expression because all too often the talk will be forgotten that these ill - treated women maintain the foundation of society. I also know what to do. The first sender of this bill is well aware of the SALEK speech and the labor market model under it. Of course, in those discussions, there was concern that the arrangement would affect the classes that had not yet reached the normal standard of control for what is going on around us and within our society; classes that would not have what they should have. They were concerned that these duties, large in women, would be stuck in what they were in and that they would not be successful, i.e. If a labour market model had just set up what the meaning was. They feared that there would be no economists and that the classes that had fallen behind, low - paying classes, would get stuck in that bike, and that they would not get the ups needed to raise low - paying classes. I'd like to hear a response. A senator in this context, i.e. any position of these women's classes and low wages in general would be if they were run through without special consideration for those who have fallen behind and are at unacceptable terms. Hv. paritaprevir And it was an interesting point that was also pointed out by Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, i.e. that the basic wage of men and women may be the same, but with the men, it is often added to a variety of sports, whether inaccessible prowes, car laughs, or whatever name it is called. This is not to say, but it sometimes explains the amount of pay between the sexes, both in the general labour market and in the public sector. It would also be nice to hear from what. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson, whether he believes that part of achieving the woman's reward is as good as the responsibilities that come with their work as a reward. I support this synonym and expect that what I have mentioned here will be discussed in the committee that brings the matter to mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u96	Mr. President. I may be able to use the objection to answer the questions as well as the answers. A senator pointed to me that was quite interesting and quite interesting. I agree that in such a struggle, of course, the workforce, this sex exchange market, and the role that explains the less acceptable rates of women or sex pay in this country. It is true that it can also apply in women's classes, where the level of education is lower than what was mentioned as an example in this synoptic arrangement. In recent years, however, it has been quite prominent that women have been growing significantly in education and applying for jobs where higher education is needed, so that women's sector has changed substantially in recent years. This is positive in the context of the fact that it is toward a higher level of pay. In fact, in general, women are better educated than men on average. We also see this in the educational system that a considerably higher proportion of women than men graduate from college, etc. But it does not reduce the importance of looking to these things too. Hv. A senator mentioned the so - called SALEK meeting and the effort to change work practice into a labour market toward what we may know in the other North countries. I think that's exactly what this is all about. You hear it clearly in the discussion of such an arrangement that there are many classes, including These groups of women believe that there is a first particular need to consider this sex - based amount of pay, which can help with such work on a new negotiation model. I may be better able to find other questions in my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u97	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yeah, I think it's a good entry into the coming dress fight that lies ahead for various classes to take on this matter, and it's very urgent. It has often been said that these classes, in which the majority of women often prove to be somewhat less paid. I remember that when the female priests multiplied them, there was talk that this meant that the terms of that class would get worse. We are familiar with the discussion that since women are in more part in some class, this is often not the result of their lack of appreciation for wages. It's unfortunate, and it shows a lack of community opinion on the job, and there's nothing to justify it. Therefore, in this discussion, I would like to emphasize that I feel that I have to manage the classes that are so hidden, which are not high - quality education, which work in travel - care programs, in medical institutions, and in travel services as an example. Why is it that most of the women's classes are cast? Don't you have a reward to do with it? In this context, it is also necessary to consider a job assessment that is primarily designed to reevaluate various work activities that have been more or less women's work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u98	Mr. President. You're right about what you're doing. A senator tells us that we need to look to what is causing the very existence of this enormous sex - exchange labour market. As I say, much has been changing in recent years and decades and much positive things, in fact, that cannot be described in ways other than the general attendance of women to work markets. This has blessedly resulted in a decrease in sexual pay differences, the performance of women in the various classes, and all of this may be very positive. But we still see that great amount of sex pay. We should exert ourselves in understanding the cause. How can we cope? This interpretation proposal, along with the law on equally pay-authorization, I think is an important step in this struggle. Of course, this matter is of that nature, and hopefully it will provide a good and useful consideration on the committee. I'm sure there are things I can do better, and I fully trust the commission to examine and correct it. Hv. A senator asked me earlier about the attitude of employers in this situation. I think it's best to say that in my secular work at the time, it's never been a great challenge. This was never shown by the labor movement's demand for special correction from women's classes. It is well known, however, that individual groups often present very convincing demands for adjustments of various kinds, including large groups of women, such as teachers have done over time, nurses, etc. However, what may be lacking is this coordination and that the labor movement, in turn, is in charge of making them feel at peace. [[The president calls.]] There will be a special adjustment for these defined groups, which will not only meet the general requirements of others as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u99	Mr. President. That might have been a conclusion. A senator who may say what needs to be said about this, also a contract between the labour market partners needs to be made with the professions and classes where women have fallen behind and in part are in the same profession. They are numerous, not just health - class and teachers. Of course, within those classes, however, there is also an unnatural difference in pay, and those jobs do not appreciate it. We know that. We need to hold it. I think there's a lot of things to do. I think that unless you're not going to pay, that's part of it, working against a difference in how you work in men and women, it's important. But there are, of course, other things. This is the eternal conflict and dolphin race that has been referred to within the workforce. If an attempt is made to raise the lowest paid and those with an abnormal amount of pay, men and women in the same profession, then the whole model seems to start. It seems that neither the labor movement nor the metropolis of the industry have the courage to get up and say, " We are going to correct these groups especially now. ' If we're going to get some professional model, such as in the North countries, and we're going to have the whole comparison with the best of the North countries, we're gonna have to have these classes up before we take it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u100	Mr. President. First, I want to thank you for a good discussion here, which has been very interesting. We here discuss a very significant subject, which, if successful, can become an important step in reaching out for an even greater degree of equality. This is a case that can become part of an important discussion of reassessment, I think I'll allow myself to put it that way, work and value of work. We face extensive social and economic changes. The fourth industrial revolution is spoken of. We're getting old. We need to stress our education more, our community is changing. When changing, policies and measures often need to be helped, to change attitudes and systems. Sometimes it is spoken of as an English language called ◯paraddigm shift wrote; it has been translated as an image offset or reference change, so you try to speak good Icelandic. I think we may be getting closer to such a transformation. I think all of this is about to change, that the workforce and sex pay will be taken seriously, and how we value the value of professions and individual professions. It is also very important to think that if we succeed in coping with these changes, and at the same time balance between the issues and the needs of the sex is balanced. We are to work against the gender of the workforce. Of course, there are a lot of reasons, but there are changes in attitudes and discussions about equal status of the sexes in any case --the #meto revolution is totally different but is of the same root. It's becoming a change of viewpoint in society, I believe it, and I really hope it is. This shows that adjustments can and are necessary. I also believe that as lawgivers, we must exert our influence to create soils for these vital and vital changes and speed them up. We all know that changing attitudes and systems is often difficult. But I think we need to deal with it. That's why I think it's very important to be on the way of some kind of national agreement and that as many people come to the point of agreeing to change things. There was a fine discussion on the fact that the labour market partners have found it difficult to make compromises in their models, i.e. changes the pay ratios between individual classes, etc. Of course, you can see in yourself that each one takes care of his own, and each one wants what the other wants. That is why it is necessary to work together. I'm very excited for further discussions on this subject. I'm sure a General and Education Committee will be having a very good discussion about that. There's a lot of friends on this thing. Hv. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir mentioned that there could be other classes here. I agree that we have to look at this in a broad context. It needs to start somewhere. We're not going to solve it all in one traffic. But if we don't start, we won't make it to our destination. I think it's a good song for something that's gonna matter to the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u101	Mr. President. I recommend the third time for the bill on a change in law No. 160/2008, of the blind, visually impaired and faint-blind persons services and knowledge centres, and about reimbursement for the glass buy of children. I'm just gonna slide over the bill for a minute. And it is said, At 1st. Section 4. The law adds to a new case, as follows: The Agency also cares for the management of the State at the expense of children's glasses. 2.g. It reads: After Section 4. The law's coming up with a new branch, Section 4. a, as well as a heading, as follows: Children's pool deals. The minister shall set up a regulations that require the participation of the State at the cost of wearing glasses. This includes: recommendation for: 1 children receive paybacks from wearing glasses up to twice a year to ten years of age, 2 children from the age of 11 to the age of 18 receive payment on wearing glasses every other year, $3.4 percent of the price of the eyeglass per price level and 75% of the price of the environment, 4 children to 10 years of age, who need eye glasses as part of their medical treatment to develop as normal as possible, receive full payback on glasses twice a year, i.e. both eyeglass and surrounding areas, as the setting should be selected in consultation with an ophthalmologist or optician. The person in charge of visual impairment, on behalf of the State, looks for an annual display offer and a check at a glass pool hall, making a small amount of payment at the lowest price. Section 3. This law goes into effect on January 1, 2019. As I said before, I've presented this case twice, but the other two times it hasn't been resolved. After I had made a recommendation for the first time, I received a statement to 23 parties. Because it was not resolved at the previous council, I brought it back with some change, and now I also make it some more, i.e. It is now assumed that children aged 11◯18 will receive payment every second year instead of annual. In the review of the Service and Knowledge Centres for Blind, Blind, and Blind-blind Subjects from April 8, 2016, it was estimated that the bill submitted to Council 145 would increase the spending of the state funds by 167 million. K. due to increased participation in children's glass purchases and also because of the increased costs of Agency activities due to projects that would result in changes in its role in these fields, which could detect only one rank. The Agency's review of April 28, 2017, estimated that the annual cost of state funds due to payment on the glass buy would be close to 197 million. By K., he increased about 30 million from year to year. By assuming a reimbursement to children aged 11◯18 years every other year, this total number reduces something. Other proposed changes to the law No. 160/2008, the service and knowledge center for blind, impaired vision, and weak blind individuals, the above mentioned are the same as in the bill submitted to the 145th and 146 Law Council. I suggest that the law be added to a new article that will state participation in costing glasses. The change aims to clear up government payment regulations so that children will be paid to buy two glasses a year to ten years of age. Children under ten years of age may require that they change their glasses more than once a year, and it is only natural that the State will be involved in the cost of wearing glasses twice a year during this age. At the same time, I suggest that from the age of 11, and until the age of 18, the state participates in the cost of a single pair of glasses a year. The fourth stipulates full reimbursement for glass buys for children who need glasses for their vision to grow naturally. In these cases, appropriate eyeglasses are so important to the child's natural development that it seems right to be fully paid from the common fund so that no child needs to be without them, as eyeglasses for this group of children are really part of medical treatment rather than a medical aid. In current regulations for the involvement of the State in the cost of glasses, No. 1155/2005 is required to participate in the State's cost of buying children's glasses twice a year until the end of the third year of life, i.e. in reality, just to three now, instead of suggesting that they be ten - year - old - year - olds from four to eight and every other year from 9◯17 years of age. The proposed change in the bill consists of greatly increasing the government's payment of eyeglasses for children up to 11 years of age, taking into account an important visual development that may depend on the need for them to receive appropriate glasses when needed. It is suggested that the government's payer will be 75% of the bidders on the glasses and glasses as the member of the service at the reduced level of vision, or as a means to raise, for his service. Could it be that Kingdom Halls care for this factor? There are no requirements for updates or review of the amount of money due to prices and no such changes have been made since the Regulation went into effect in December 2005. This has resulted in the loss of government support for children's eye purchases, in line with the inflation of development and the aim of the procedure, in some respects the courtyards. So I think it's both right and time to make the change that the pay-off event will be determined by a certain rate of cost, as mentioned above. In Denmark this is true of children and young people who are registered in Synsgiteret, i.e. in a list of persons with vision problems for Kennedy Century, Δjenkukken, are entitled to provide financial support for visual problems. These include young and young adults up to 18 years of age. It refers to ◯serveveven, 153. and, on the duty of those working in the government, that they should distinguish local governments from the needs of children for such support. And it is an additional branch in which the expert physicians and the staff of the social authorities are authorized, if the parents and guardians' approval is available, to provide this centre with information on children and young people under 18 with such problems. Then the Agency can promote information with the parents' approval of the social, health, and educational authorities, which have then provided further guidelines on this centre. Of course, there are conditions involved in being registered in Synsuret. It's, for example. the maximum vision in the eye is below six against 18, or 0.3. This group of children and young people need a wide range of visual aids, including corrected visual devices such as glasses and contact lenses, and those on this threshold still have trouble reading a book despite glasses. For that group, I am just suggesting that everything be paid for. So I continue with dance rules, their law on social services shows that rural or rural governments provide individuals with permanent visual impairment or medical eye - related help to obtain relief tools and goods according to their social services laws. Of course, there have been some eye - eye discussions and issues related between the Service Committee and the Knowledge Centre, the Administrative Association, the Social Services of Icelandic optometrists, and others. When I first made the statement, I had a conversation with a servant of the Service and Knowledge Centre, and that included a conversation. this with the Regulation. It would be so convenient, or what to say, the coincidences are sometimes a little strange, because last night I got an e - mail where a father asked me what had happened to this case since last council and if we wouldn't do something about it now. So it was good to be able to discuss this matter today because it affects a lot of people. Of course, the rules he witnessed in his e - mail to me were to get the same dollar in reimbursement that he received in 2006 when he started taking his child to an eye doctor. One of the things we also need to keep in mind is that the glass is always paid for; it is not paid for insurrection. Of course, people choose them themselves and run the cost. Of course, there is much at stake. We surely know, many of us, small children who need special resources that may cost more than conventional ones; they need to be soft and flexible. But that does not change the fact that they too can be damaged. That's one of the things I think it's important to deal with, i.e. The youngest group. While it is true that the majority of children may not need a particularly expensive pair of glasses or sights that are not very bad or abnormal, there is a group that will be in need of specialized glasses that are also very expensive at that time. At that time, I also had a meeting with Brynhildur Ingvarsdóttteur and former head of Iceland's Ingvarsdóttir, and Elínborg Guðmundsdóttir and reviewed what was most necessary to change. This may be one of their favorites, i.e. To consider the youngest group. A child's vision is mature at eight, nine, or what it is now, so it would be very important to help children especially, not cut at that point. I don't think that in itself I have to have very many words about this but that I admit that there are no ordinances, because these are two types of things, i.e. On the one hand to review this Regulation and then to make these legal adjustments because there is no obligation to review this update to the prices of the Regulation, which is very critical. I really hope that whatever happens to this case, it will be done, although I do hope it will get a career on a welfare committee. It was ready to be paid in the past, but as is often the case of members of the council, they may be ready for release, but they do not get on course the whole way. Of course, I'm disappointed that the price tag hasn't gone up for so long. At the time, I sent a request to the Department of Social Affairs, which said this hadn't gone up. It was also found that a large part of the reimbursement was paid, i.e. 80% of the parents or guardians would be only 7,000. which is then the same amount from 2005. There's both children and adults in there. They didn't come apart to answer how much was children. It was also shown in the reply - I have not pushed it with any other form, and I do not know exactly how the discussion was carried out on the welfare committee last time - that work was to be done to review the status of the children who need more expensive glasses. I certainly hope, then, that something has become of that service and of a welfare committee will also take to heart now as it discusses the matter. If I draw this together, Mr. President, I feel that when a welfare committee reviews the case, she should be especially concerned with this vulnerable group, a small group, where children's vision does not grow naturally unless they wear glasses. In my opinion, it is very important that we support them as children so that they gain normal vision and that we view them as medical treatment for these youngest children. Because the price change has become as we know it, and this support, of course, no longer serves its purpose. A respectable president. Our sight is precious. I think we all agree that it is important to protect her, as shown in my conversations with eye doctors, to meet the children who need special provisions that can keep them away from blindness. I hope the welfare committee will clear this up, and we can agree in the spring before spring that it will be successful and given support to a responsible group.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u102	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for an amazing enterprise. I'm obliged. I am legally blind and have had to be assisted by the Contact Centres for Blindness, Visual impairment, and Cooperative Hearing Disturbance. But now when we talk about who's supposed to get subsidies because of the glass or whatever else, I just say, "Let's just do it better. " Of course, we have to start somewhere, but, in fact, it's probably not that the economic situation of parents who have children is gonna be 9 years old, 10 years old, or 12 years old when they can get glasses free. The fact is, they have cost tens of thousands of dollars, and parents have had to delay taking their children to an eye doctor because they know that the package will be large that they cannot afford to pay for glasses. So I say, as long as children are involved with parents, large parents, we should make sure that all of them have glasses, always. But congratulations, huh? paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir. I'll bet I'm on your side.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u103	Mr. President. I thank the senator the answer or the answer. I agree, of course, with my parents, I thought it would be natural for us to support all children while they are with them, at least. up to 18 years of age, while defined as children. But like a dog. A senator said we need to start somewhere. That is why it is very important for me to hold this group while my vision is growing at the most delicate stage of my life, and to move on. This is the third time I move it, so I hope we'll have something to do with this feature even if the support is only until the age of 10. An ophthalmologist was mentioned when I had a conversation with them that it was the age, up until the age of ten, which was the most important time. The payment is divided, i.e. She's twice a year for those who need glasses. This figure suggests that part - time expenses, or 75%, are paid, and also bandages that were previously not supplied, just the glass. Also, if we can say so, we can pay the entire cost to the group that has to be paid at the expense of medical treatment. A senator pointed to and referred to himself. This is an example where expenses are fully paid. I'd like to have it the way the senator described it. But I think it's a step in the direction that we're gonna keep blurred. Often, we need to take the steps slower than we would like, but it can be better than taking a big jump and maybe getting little or nothing out.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u104	A respectable president. Yes, it is. A senator says that it is, of course, better to get something than nothing. She points out that this is the third time she makes this suggestion. I believe we have a situation. The senator is much stronger today, so we can expect a more positive conclusion. This was Iceland's Visual Center when I met her, and this is now called the Service and Knowledge Center for Blindness, Visual impairment, and Disturbance in People with integrated visual and hearing impairment. At the time when I first met the so - called Center, both glasses and bandages were completely penniless. I feel like we've backed back pretty hard somewhere in the season and took quite a hell of a backflip, so I'm not sure if you wouldn't mind if I could flip, such a tiny young step. Why not take a quick leap back and put ourselves in the position we were in all those years ago? I think we're even more financial today than we are. But I say, "Go, go, go. " Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u105	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the record. I'm sure there's a lot of things in the community that have gone backwards that I remember and that I've had knowledge and experience, something that was different and free of charge, since later our system has been set free. I'd love to take this on a big jump. I think I'm in a stronger position than before; I agree with it with the giddy. Senator. That's why I hope we get this case somewhere. In many areas, money is called for, and many people want more money into the litigators who have, unfortunately, been starving. But I think it's a matter that we can join together at the council. I heard no better than that a welfare committee agreed to settle the matter both last and last, but these cases are often lost at the end of the council, the agreement is to complete some particular case on the behalf of members of Congress, but mine was not one of them. But now this is one of our top priorities: Left green, senators. I certainly hope that I can get it through and that the welfare committee will quickly and effectively remove it because twice has been planted before. It should, therefore, be available in a relatively short period of time from the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u106	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a synopsis of the government's policy to be met. This is case 52 on deck. 54. The motion says so, with the permission of the president: The General concluded to hide financial and economic ministers, in cooperation with marine and agricultural ministers, to shape the government's tenant policy for farms. Ministers submit the Council policy in the form of a synonym no later than October 1, 2018. The case is now presented here for the third time. This was previously proposed to a Council of 146th and 147th. This has not been achieved, but since there is still a need for Kingdom policy on farm treatment, this is reassigned to the same level. The comments received in the earlier efforts of this case were either in the process of paying up for the purpose of the proposal and recommending its progress or not making comments to its contents. With this proposal, the secretary of finance and economics is assigned to shape government policy for farms. The development of recent years has been that more and more land has gone out of an apartment and has weakened much of the scattered areas of the country, which are important based on local policy, and to ensure food production and equality to farm. During the past decade, there have been significant changes in rural land use, but the change that has become the most widespread is a large number of people whose job prospects are largely determined. The aim of this proposal is particularly that the State pursues a policy that ensures the possibility of people to begin farming. Natural protection and tourism development are also needed. Similarly, any type of land belonging to the State and therefore, which areas are better off owned by a private member. In 2013 the Environment and Resource Minister appointed a rural and sustainable land use group. The final report by the August 2015 workgroup shows that it is important to shape the government's land policy, how to use and care for it, including whether and what soils should be due to their State's special status, which may be sold and where to rent, and after what may be done, by what means. Many lands owned by the State have a unique position on nature, history, and culture, but most farms and land are under the supervision of the institutions of the State or its candidates who use them for hire. According to the Law of the Earth, No. 81/2004, the Ministry of Economics and Economic Affairs will administer government custody and enforce the laws for buying, selling, and other government arrangements. On the other hand, the law does not require that the State set a specific course for its own earth. Since it is important to improve the situation over the years, many people who have wanted to settle on earth, start farming, and settle have not had it, since there seems to be a lack of work and practices. In addition to earth's provision, there can be a change if innovation programmes are not available and tools are not available for analysis. Transporters believe it is reasonable to believe that during the development of policy shapes the European Farmers Association, the State's Geography, the Union of Iceland and the Forest State will be consulted. Of course, it can also be suggested to consult more people, e.g. State and landowners' union. V.E.G. President. Recently, though, talking about the landing of foreigners has been quite a factor but is not new. On April 17, 2013, the current Minister of Internal Affairs, Ögmundur Jónasson, set up a new directive for the purchase of foreigners with a legal home in the EEA area of property here. According to her, the EEA citizens were not allowed to buy land in Iceland unless they had a legitimate stay or function of the country. A few months later, the protocol was taken out of existence by a local Minister, Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, who did not consider this Regulation to be compatible with the commitments of the country because of the European Economics Convention. In January 2017, a so - called marine economist and agricultural minister ordered a group of workers to revise the laws and regulations of the trades of foreign citizens in Iceland. The staff is aimed at evaluating the limitations most likely to be considered in maintaining agricultural and agricultural habitats in the rural areas. In this regard, the maintenance of agricultural land is limited in Danish land laws and conditions set for foreign citizens'purchases. V.E.G. President. At the 541 legislature of the 541 matter, the written answer to the current minister of finance and economics showed that the state fund had 450 soils and a large proportion of them were being used for agriculture. Governments care for the affairs of the larger part of the government or about 315 earths daily. Then there are about 120 labour agreements for Kingdom property. According to Article 12. Is God's Way of Life? No. 80/2004, the crew should have stuck on a farm and do agricultural activities unless otherwise agreed. A number of contracts have been made for the market where renters live on earth. It is also common for soil to be rented for cunning and to be used by someone who lives on the adjacent soil. A house - to - house arrangement is essential for the start of a building, so deserts in general are not suitable for an apartment. V.E.G. President. Happily, there are still young people who want to make food for themselves and do agriculture. Have and raise children in a rural community, build up the community, and be an animal. Sadly, though, the trend has been that more and more land has gone out of the apartment. It has weakened very widely the scattered areas of the country, which are important based on local policy and part of ensuring equality for the residence that we candidates are interested in. V.E.G. President. I'm not going to extend the discussion to this time by specifying an outstanding example, but it is known that much is involved in rural development, which is largely based on agriculture and tourism. If the ground comes out of a flat, and there's not a cohesion in farms, it costs a lot. The tweets fail, and new farms need to be developed. It does not have the same methods of selling farms and land for farming. V.E.G. President. Apparently, something was done to sell and put the earth in an apartment and advertise them. There are likely no rules on where and how to advertise. Good soils have simply been lost because of inactivity on the part of the State. This needs to be changed. This arrangement of action makes this arrangement a progressive step toward bringing these matters to the best of our lives. As the report shows, many of the estates owned by the State have become a special property in nature, history, and culture. The strategy needs to take into account how to use these soils, how they should be taken care of. It needs to be a guide so that we can tell which soils belong to the State, who can sell, who can rent, and with what means. V.E.G. President. The fact that the state's budget has about 450 land, most of which are new to agriculture, gives rise to opportunities to build up and support European agriculture, which has great knowledge and value. In a healthy stock and knowledge of farmers in the land Now that specific measures are needed in climate, I feel that the state is going forward and that it is fulfilling agreements with farmers who are already there for forestry. Thus I figure that the government's climate goals can be met, strengthened by structure, supported by industry, strengthen tourism, beauty, and improved land, and many more. I hope that more than I can reach this conclusion and that the case will be brought to pass. As for this matter, in addition to mine, the Congress Group stands. There's the following of them. Councilmen: Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristoff, Silja Dögg Gög Gunnarsdóttir and Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson Finally, after this discussion, I suggest that the case be referred to a professional committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-24-16.u107	Mr. President. Here's a proposal for a synopsis of the state's contract policy for farms. It is certainly good to see this conjugal proposal made for the third time, perhaps making a thank - you move. The report says, which is the point and I'm going to get to read here, with the permission of a president: ▪ The aim of this proposal is particularly that the State pursues a policy that ensures the possibility of people to begin farming. Natural protection and tourism development are also needed. Similarly, any type of land belonging to the State and therefore, which areas are more suitable for private property should be defined. How true those words are, the very essence of the matter, as I say. It is long ago time for this council mishap to be settled. As for the landing of foreigners, they have already begun, as we know. What may be a sign of only a few instances is a specific collection of ground. We'll see this at the depths of Isenafra. We'll see this in Central. We'll see this in Northeast. The response to the purchase of other foreigners is that an employment team was appointed by a so-called marine and agricultural minister with the intention of revising the laws and regulations of the trades of foreign citizens on farms in Iceland. It's still a long time to respond to this in some way that makes much of the land in Iceland, and I want to say that most people, are still in Iceland. Mr. President. It should be noted that there are a number of corrupt states at this time. They could be located in residences. It is part of a role that we can read about in this report, i.e. that they could be used in our efforts to combat climate change. We are deforestation, recovery of wetlands, and we are dealing with a type of deforestation of land. When it comes to travel, there are already some citizens in an apartment in this article, they could increase, and especially in regions where travel services are least obtained and suitable for mixed farming, e.g. A combination of sheep culture, agricultural recovery, and tourism. Here, too, there is a problem involving the state's sometimes solving of the property of the previous resident to come up with new ones, and the sums can be very high. It has, after I have heard, stood in the kingdom, so to speak, opening up to new owners for that very thing. This is the Supreme Work Committee. Agricultural ministers, or a future working group at the highest level. Financial and economic ministers, need to find ways to facilitate the development of new renters or owners in all areas. It can be reminded by itself that the State can literally sell some of its land or buy land that has a role in the public service, e.g. Because of peace, but there is, of course, another story. I'm celebrating a bill of what. paritaprevir Þórunn Egilsdóttir and more candidates, expecting the best of payment. A professional committee to the case, for there is now a fine way to progress in these areas.
