ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-53.u1	Honorable generals. It is finally the final meeting of the General Assembly for Christmas, the last meeting in 2018. In fact, these last days have not been completely simple or easy to find here at the General Assembly. Yet, during the past few weeks, the council has done a fine job in the Senate work. The next year's agreement with the budget ended December 7, and at the same time, we were able to complete a number of other important cases within the time frame of the Council's work program. One 44 cases have been decommissioned from committees and all have been made with the law or resolutions of the Generals. Is that head tooth there with the expression "one of the most productive" in the history of the Generals. This success and timing of the case is greatly improved by individuals, organizations and institutions who have to work by the legislation set forth here for years, and especially by the budget of the coming year at the beginning of December. I thank all the people who put their hands on the plow so they could make it. In the year in which we are running toward the end, an important turning point in our history is reaching its end. During the entire year, it has been remembered in many ways that by 100 years since we became a sovereign Kingdom. What a joy it is to see that this milestone has been remembered in a wide variety of ways throughout the country! In my opinion, it is a great honor to know that schools, museums, organizations, partnerships, and rural communities have taken part in remembering this milestone. On behalf of the Generals, I want to thank all those who have contributed to this year as eventful as they really are. Most important, I'd like to thank the World Health Committee for its good work. The Council itself remembered this milestone at a meeting at the Þingles during the summer, where Iceland's Childhood Fund was agreed to start building a special ocean research vessel. Both of these projects are provided in budgets for the next year: 100 million. K. a contribution to five years will run into Iceland's Children's Culture Fund and next year 300 million are paid. K. to prepare for the construction of a marine research vessel. Then the Council will contribute the Icelandic literary community to an ambitious edition of books for the anniversary of the sovereignty. A special contribution made by the General Assembly to the many powers of sovereignty was so open here on December 1. Nearly 2,700 people visited the General Assembly that day, and it was evident that people enjoyed the opportunity to visit this beautiful house, one of the most desirable qualities of the nation. At the same time, there was an opportunity to converse with the members of the Parliament and the general staff. We have had special occasions for an open house here, as was the 100th anniversary of a woman's vote in 2015 and the two centuries's birthday of Jón the son of Sigurðsson in 2011. But the great interest that is always in an open house shows that it is time to examine whether we should increase such events at the Council. It could, for example. It was a good thing for the International Assembly Hall to be opened to all from the date of June 17, each year. In any case, the President plans to conduct it next year when we recall the republic's 75th birthday. Another pleasant event related to the year of full - time service was the opening of a new and remake presentation in the Jón House of Copenhagen, December 6, 2000. to the home of the son of Imbjörn, the Ingibjörg of Einarsdóttir, and the son of Jón, the son of Sigurðsson. The opening was attended by a large number of Icelanders in Copenhagen, and they also sang choruses in John's house. I was happy to be there and open the show. The home of Ingibjörg and Jón, who were on the third floor of the house, has been rebuilt on the basis of literature on the lives of married couples in Copenhagen, a building - story study of the apartment itself, as well as a historical study of household life in the mid - 19th century in Copenhagen. The National Museum of Iceland took on work in the production of the gale on behalf of the Generals and solved it with great honor. I would like to use this opportunity to encourage the people of the country who are passing through Copenhagen to stop by the house of John and enjoy this display. No one will be betrayed by such a visit. But John's house is not merely a reinventing home for Ingibjörg husband and Jón, for as in their day, the house today is the center of Iceland's community activity in Copenhagen and the area. It is, in fact, there. To find a powerful chorus and a setting for teaching children in basic school in Copenhagen, about 80 children attend Icelandic school there every Saturday. So it was especially enjoyable to be able to present a book gift to the Icelandic school for the anniversary of the sovereignty, which was written by the Young People Ask book Oscar Child of the Life and Work of Jón Sigurðsson, written by Brynhildur Þórarinsdóttir. The life and work in the home of John and the great value it holds for the Icelanders of Hafnar, and in the area, raises a subtle question as to whether there is a need to contribute to the larger areas of the Icelanders abroad to produce such centers. Now at the end of Congress, I would like to give my special pleasure with the good will that the senators have shown to resolve matters that were urgent for the Christmas season. Then I'd like to thank the vice presidents for their cooperation on the board of Congress. I also thank the presidents of the political parties and members of the Parliament for their smooth, smooth cooperation. I have also had very good cooperation with the presidents of the Synod committees in order to improve the Senate organization and to contribute to the equal handling of matters. I intend to continue such cooperation from time to time with the officers of the constant committees for this purpose. Then the government and the Council have also contributed by making the Constitution a more reliable document than has been, and all of this helps to make the work here more responsible. There is still a targeted program to support the General Assembly and to prepare more fully for the work here. At the end of this last assembly of 2018, I thank you for the members of the Parliament and especially for the staff of the Generals for their priceless work and wish them all a joyful and peaceful Christmas celebration and a new year's success. Those who have come a long way home wish I had a nice return home and we could all meet together in a whole new year. I will send my best Christmas and New Year's Eve.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-53.u2	V.E.G. President. I'd like to represent the Generals. The president and vice president thank you very much for our cooperation this winter and for our warm words to our senators. The last thing I want to say is thank you very much. Presidents cooperate with us as members of the council, where the president's decades of conference experience have especially enjoyed himself. I would also like to thank the Generals for their good work and willingly provide assistance. During the last few weeks, we have been concerned about the respect of the International Assembly and the loss of our trust in politicians. There are many issues in this regard, and it is only natural that different viewpoints are under way, but the Allied Council of Iceland is one of the basics of our community, and if there is no respect and trust within the General Assembly, it is not to be expected here. We need to find ways to change the situation for the benefit of the Council. I hope Christmas will be a cause for joy and that we will meet again with the challenges that await us here in this new year's hall, hopefully to promote the Council and each one of us as human beings. Thank you to our highest degree. General Assembly Presidents and staff, asking members of the Parliament to say my words by getting out of their seats. - [[Senators rose from seats.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-53.u3	Thank you. 6th. South, Yaddny G. Oddný Harðardóttir, warm words and good wishes for me. Thank you. Allied members of the council for saying so, and I thank the members of the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-53.u4	Iceland's number tells: That, apart from the approval of the Generals, I am authorized by the prime minister to postpone General Assembly Summit 149, December 14, 2018 or later, if necessary, to January 21st, 2019. All units, 13 December 2018. The Guðni of Th. Jóhannesson. Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. Presidential Letters for Pronunciation of General meetings I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity and thank you for the cooperation of the Commission and the rest of the council. I had a fine meeting with the prime committee and members of Congress in the fall, which showed that we all agreed on the importance of organizing more congregational duties. It is a joy to see that after some part of the distribution of Congress, it has balanced over the winter and has a clearer organization on things. This is part of our work plan that we now complete a meeting on time. I hope that this good cooperation can continue when we have found a new committee, a prime committee, members of Parliament, and the one here, in the new year, and review the continuation of this council. However, according to the authority I read here, and with reference to the approval of the Generals, I declare that General Assembly 149th is suspended. I wish the senators, the members of the Generals, and the people of the country to all the merry Christmass and well-beings of the new year.
