ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-34.u1	Mr. President. By midnight last night, members of Pirata and the Conspiracies laid out a form of distrust against the Minister of Justice. The reason for the proposal is the violation that the Minister of Justice has committed in his work, repeated efforts to free himself from responsibility, and a lack of willingness to seek upbuilding ways and solutions in the way of good government. Some would call it formality to insist on a legal hearing, but the requirement for ministers to comply in their duties is far more than a requirement for formality. It is a fundamental requirement for the government of the country and the legal government to proceed with the law of the land. The load of responsibility is both normal and legitimate. We view a minister of justice as having worked in a way that is not open to the public in Iceland. It is not enough that a minister of judicial cases was sentenced by the highest court for violating the law of the court order of the judge and remain a minister. It promotes the image that many of the social governments have that other rules apply to the ruling class rather than to the common people. Inculcate with that image is a language of ethnic agreement. According to a recent estimate of Gallup, the public's confidence in the judicial system has fallen by 7% in one year and is now 36%, which is thereby appointing Iceland to join a population of countries that are at the bottom of Europe. Trust in the Council is a slight shock, and now it is 29%. That is very positive, but now the Council has to do so well and live up to that trust. It was not an easy decision for us to make. No one plays the part of putting up a hard - and - fast list. Although it is true that this case, and other official application of the minister, has been long discussed in the light of the decisions made by the Minister of Justice, we have stressed that we should bring the results of the courts, information through the administration and monitoring committee, the commission of the General Assembly agent, and fully do everything to ensure good treatment. We are neither interested in political executions nor at times with them. No, President. What we're interested in is a good government in Iceland. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-34.u2	Mr. President. Yesterday, at a solemn ceremony, a body meeting was set up. In his phrase, president of the Community expressed great concern over the government and EU tax agreement on agricultural products, which take effect on May 1. The agreement is a most adverse prayer. It was made without consultation with stakeholders. The agreement was made by the then agricultural minister, the Sigurður of Ingi Jóhannsson, and it seems that the minister made it on his own. The treaty surprised farmers, and now the reality of the EU import of meat and cheese begins with full force. The treaty does not reflect the enormous size of markets. Europe counts over 500 million people, while Iceland is only 340. The competitiveness of the Icelandic agricultural sector in the EU is not considered. There was no assessment of the consequences of the Convention for Icelandic agriculture. This shows how crazy the party was. The EU is able to move to Iceland 610 tons while we live in the EU only 50 tons. All countries protect their agriculture. Farming is an important industry in Iceland, producing high quality products, providing a number of people with all kinds of jobs all over the country, and trusting their habitats. Farmers want to compete, but it's supposed to be on equal ground. The Tolla Convention is to present the same potential for farmers in Europe as it is given to the European Union. That's not what the deal is. The patience of farmers to the advance class and an independent class in this matter is strange. The media has given themselves over to being especially supportive of farmers. In this big deal, it's just a misapprehension. The government is to renegotiate the customs agreements with the EU. This can be reasoned by the British leaving the EU. So our biggest and best market area has disappeared from our contract.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-34.u3	A respectable president. I would like to make a subject of reduced public activity in some parts of the country that are dealing with a number of white ravens. In addition, data is being added to the management office in a Western country where two of the three employees were laid off at the county work station in Burgur Valley and are no longer supposed to be a legal representative of the county office at Akérini. The objective of the cohesion of the county reformers was three measures. First, to achieve savings with less overwork, second, that citizens' services would be secured and third, to promote the administration and equip them to take on increased assignments. There is no need to question the fact that people in this area are being assigned to serve less fully. In the modern world, it may be estimated that a service to be obtained personally at a specific address will reduce with increasing technology. However, this is not the fact of a number of public jobs in the whole country. This is not a comment about looking for any means to achieve economy or to use technology to enhance the variety of services. But I'd like to point out the fact that little or nothing has been done about taking advantage of a stronger administrative agency, united to transport projects from the councils to service in the country. It was simply a law that no workers at the county office should lose their job because of practical management but should ensure additional work to manage. The promise has not been fulfilled, and there is still a growing increase in the Kingdom's empty possession of the land that must be paid of taxes and obligations and heat. As technology increases, many tasks could be carried out as it has been pointed to them as effective technology in both directions. The state must not be the founder of reducing the sector's sector through the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-34.u4	Mr. President. On the issues and November 21st, we find a detailed discussion of the subject. was discussed in the Fish Room and how that institution fulfills its legal role. It told a very serious story about the operation of Fishing Room. It is difficult to interpret the words of a fishing manager who fell into the program in a way that differs from the fact that the Agency is unable to perform its role and that the government is aware of this. A fishing clinic seems to have simply given up on caring for its responsibilities. Studies indicate extensive fractures, but the Fish Room has not followed all cases and has not studied large matters for five years. It's normal to ask if the highest. High - tech minister approves or approves of the general council. Inspiration is built in to cheat if the surveillance is weak, and the system that the government puts does not help the agency to fulfill its role. It also showed that there are considerable differences between countries and labours, knowing that ice levels are false on weight and that monitoring of rechallenge is excluded. The legislation indicates that weighing takes place on port range, but also about regrowing and rearraying speeches. I think it's obvious that there's something wrong with the buyer, the seller, and the person weighing is one person. And how does an alleged mismanagement of the resource's real status affect the salary of sailors and income reject? In recent years, between 44 and 24 years and the budget for the business has been reduced. These matters must be reviewed, and hopefully they will. All government members agree to a request made in the next few days. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-34.u5	A respectable president. It does not fail to be a bit ashamed of a recent news report that representatives of the Independence Party complained to the European Union's Ministers, Security and Cooperation Agency, here on the report of the press on financial activity of the local and international prime minister, and especially in the controversies of the disaster. A shearing is a fair, beautiful flood, saith the Witches of Macbeth. Similarly, we see in many of today's unscrupulous politicians in the world who call themselves "the constant reports of false stories " and who constantly undermine the credibility of the media that operate in public service rather than the success of their owners or political elements. SE representatives go through lands listening to reports of various persecutions. They hear of the imprisonments and injuries and many threats, impaired meeting freedom, the obstacles set up to prevent people from choosing. They hear of the loss of freedom of speech, of censorship, and so forth. However, when these delegates arrive in Iceland, they get a report of the reports of a group of directors over the media that they find unpleasant. A respectable president. In various European countries, journalists live in the persecution of ruling governments, but the rest is rare, that the ruling government is suffering the persecution of journalists.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-34.u6	A respectable president. I'd like to spend a few words at Mila and more companies that I'm going to mention here, the Data Office of Farice, and suggest ideas. All of the companies turn the Internet. In this way, in some countries around us, everything has to do with a network, a fiber optics and access to the Internet, and the Internet has to do with electricity, is defined as a security issue. In some places it is part of national security policy, the importance of ensuring access to these necessary phenomena in modern society. I wonder if it's the highest. The government should not consider these matters. There are ambitious plans to complete the nation's fiber - optic industry, and it's fine. But I think it might be worth one Mass to settle over these matters and see if it doesn't have to be put under the same hat of a company that I listed above, who would call for a broad consultation with the members who come to the business and possession of their companies. Next time, we'll be discussing the changes in Landsnet law. It requires much explaining the independence of the owner and is worth considering in this context under the same idea. This has been defined in many areas as a safety issue. The most important issue involved is quality of life, to ensure that all citizens of the country have ensured safety through Internet and electrical energy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-34.u7	A respectable president. Last night when we were in Spotlight, we said why. paritaprevir Páll Magnússon of interest, but I'd like to mention two things I'd rather think about. First, he urged the government's opposition to wait on a mistrust plan, for government ministers would no doubt make a bigger mistake than to fuck up the order of judges in a whole new level of judgment. In case of trust. A senator in government counsellors is no more than that, he must first seize the opportunity, perhaps too late now, to put confidence in the government to prevent that mistake from being realized. This is a very interesting threat to the nation. There's a bigger mistake coming up. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Second, what said? Senator to be a minister of responsibility. I wondered: " What is that responsibility? There is not a secretary to pay the compensation she caused from her own pocket. They are paid from the treasure of the kingdom, the pocket of all the people of the land. There, the public pays for the personal decision of a minister. You have previously been asked: " What would be different if a minister was responsible? ' Is it possible, then, that there would be another minister other than Senator Sigríður Á. Andersen? Is the senator Sigríður Á. Andersen responsible by taking back the office of Minister of Justice? How does that even work? We senators need to ask themselves very simple questions. When a minister violates the opinion of the experts, the warnings from members of Congress, the law violates such a serious matter as the order of a judge, acknowledging that it was her decision and that the responsibility is her and then does nothing to shoulder that responsibility, does the council not have to enter? If it's not distrustful to fuck up an entire court order, what is it? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-34.u8	Mr. President. Carbon tracks and noncarbons are concepts that are becoming more and more complex, and our understanding of them has increased over the years. The idea that we should not increase the use of carbon and contribute to binding as a kind of price for our existing use is becoming more general. The community has recently set in motion a highly ambitious projection of the EU's carbon balance of agriculture. The idea of a so-called "slow dick" has also gone to bed, i.e. The idea that people should eat food that is produced near the feeding point and that in this way we are contributing to an even greater reduction in carbon tracks, contributing to a better environment, as well as to the fact that a fresher food is likely to be involved, in turn, in a more healthful way. On the other side of this axis, the so-called requirement for the season to be able to buy and consume any food irrespective of local availability or production irrespective of the season. Such consumerism inevitably leads to an increased level of carbon dioxide, especially in a country such as ours, which is rather far from the country's manufacturing and breeding centres. To reduce carbon levels, people have come up with all kinds of ideas, and one of them is putting a mile tax on foods brought to the country by airplanes or ships and perhaps on the first lap to consider whether such a thing could be done in a moral sense. And especially with products that could be produced in this country, with less carbon tracks. It might be a seasonal thing, but I think there's good reason to look at it. For example, such a price might be encouraged to control the import, so they looked at how much food would travel before they arrived in the country and prefer to import food that would be closer to them and thus less environmental pollution from their transport here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-34.u9	Mr. President. Today, an economist has been appointed as representatives of the farm society to meet and discuss matters in which they burn. There was much to be said about the chairman of the town council. For one thing, he made the position of sheep farmers a talker. The chairman pointed out that sheep farmers are the largest class of farmers. Sheep's flocks are all around the country, and often they are a very important part of the country's country safety network. There's always light next town. The government made a handsome contribution on budgets to meet the problems of sheep farmers, but of course it does not solve all the problems facing the slave class. It is necessary to arrange for sheep to be properly trained here, which does not require the current situation. Now that the lawgiver looks to the future, we need to be clear about why we give money to raise sheep. Is it to ensure that the country is inhabited? Is this to match farmers' choice with similar classes? Is it a political decision that we want to produce lamb to protect a certain nesting and culture, as well as livestock stock? These goals may all be important, but they may not be compatible. And what is most important? It may be possible to calculate that it is nationally practical to import lamb from New Zealand, slid from the Netherlands, and milk from Denmark. But is it practical and practical? It was hearing of farmers at a meeting we had with them last night that they were willing to lie down with us in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. But that is a long-term goal, as we know, that Iceland will become a non-carbon object by reducing emissions alone. That is why the inmates of the country, farmers, have to discuss how to maintain carbon binding, with trees, by making up the deserts of this country, and by filling up in ditches that are not used in agricultural production, or whatever else. The conversation is to be taken on the basis of both parties.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-34.u10	Mr. President. Last night, a survey in the news magazine of the Soviet Union in Reykjavík, Canada, published a report in the Water marshland area. It shows that 59% of the Smokelanders want to hold the Watermmer airport, 11% remain neutral, and those who want the airport to leave are about 30%. In a comparable survey of the world's population since the fall of the news reports, 74% of the population reported that the airport continues in the Hydromosis. In the next few days, I will propose a proposal for a resolution on national law on the future of the city of Reykjavík airport. The question I'm going to ask is: Do you want the airport and the center of domestic flights, instruction, and medical flights to remain in the spring of Reykjavík until another equally good or better option is ready for use? Thus we give the nation a chance to say yes or no to that simple question. I intend to make this suggestion over the next few days, and I will send it to all members of the council, allowing all members of the council to be partners to this council agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-34.u11	V.E.G. President. Now we're going to take over a farm council and farmers' case. I was so lucky to meet some of them yesterday and talk to them. Because of this, I meant that humans have a mind that is in humans, despite the scale that farmers now climb. This is not surprising, for, indeed, Icelandic farmers have kept their watch, cultivated the land, and produced quality food, which certainly has no special place where, for example, there is no special property. It is, for example, a drug use that is at the lowest level in the world, and the use of genetically modified feed in sheep breeding is forbidden. The aim of the agricultural system all goes down to ensure the highest quality food for the people of the country that meets the highest animal resources. There is no evidence that any compromise is available. V.E.G. President. It has been observed that farmers are concerned by the recent judgment of the EFTA Court allowing the import of fresh agricultural products from European countries. This concern is entirely valid because the import is associated with the risk of transmission, as well as with the high imports, it is likely to cut the gap in the series of farms. Then we're talking about a significant agricultural disorder, since agriculture is the spine in the country's settlements and the part that holds many communities together. V.E.G. President. That in another word, we speak proudly about the ways of the nation's education, but in the other word, we only take note of our scholars when it is convenient to do so. If so, I refer to Dr. Guðnadóttir theologian, who warned seriously against importing meat and living things. In so doing, she wanted to protect the health of farms and citizens. If we are actually talking about unregistered import, let's at least make the same requirement for farming, farm work environment, and workers, the purity of the products, the traceability of all productions, and carbon footprints. I'm not afraid of anything compared to Icelandic agriculture. The competition has to be on equal base.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-34.u12	President. During these last days, I have been thinking about responsibility and what that really means. So this morning I decided to ask an unnamed search engine on the world web: What responsibility is it? Her conclusion was this wonderful and informative document that I found on the website of a school of Chancellor, which I would like to share with you, by permission of presidents: ▪ What is a responsibility? Responsiblely, the greatest challenge of all that is being done and what is said and what is done is to keep it. To accept the consequences of their words and actions, whether in recognition, praise, or criticism or ridicule. It is responsible to keep the promise made but not to ignore it or to forget it. The responsibility is to take responsibility for their mistakes, not to blame the weather, or anyone else, or to forget. The responsibility is not to offer excuses if something is different from what was originally intended but to explain why. Responsible is evidence of maturity. Those who are responsible send a message to others that they can be trusted. Why should we cultivate responsibility? When we take responsibility for our words and actions and others feel that they can trust us, we are entrusted with more work to do. If we are responsible, we will finish what we have taken, we will not forget our homework, promises are held, assignments are done, and people will not be disappointed in us. Instead of taking responsibility, those who have excuses always make the same mistakes and cease to be trustworthy. We want to trust others, and we want to be trustworthy. Both come spontaneously when people are responsible. President. I think it would be helpful to consider those words only to us as we meditate on the mistrust that now lies before the council. It is often said that we in this hall should stop acting like preschoolers. I say, " Let me set the example for my children and give us responsibility. '
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-34.u13	Mr. President. A monthly report published today by the Substitute Bank provides an interesting comparison between the property of Icelandic families in their apartments, compared with the property of European families. It turns out that well over 60% of the Icelandic families owe in their home, only 15% of whom live in a debtless home. In the European Union, some of whom are not exemplary, these ratios are 43%, who live in a debtless home, and about 45% who live in a house with some kind of debt. In other words, there are three times as many people in the European Union who live in uncommitable housing as there is in this country. This is yet another evidence of the interest that is practiced in the shelter of the money policy set by the World Bank to work. This reflects how much longer it takes for Icelandic families to have a home in which they live, if they choose to buy, because of this tremendous amount of interest. Once again, it is the responsibility of the greater part of the Generals every time that we live in this interest interest, which is always followed by politicians, saying that it is a testimony to what we do with great flexibility, what we live with, the strength, the promotion, the independent Icelandic coin, which actually costs us a little bit. Is it not time for us to determine how much of this coin really costs us? It's clear that we can't run independent money policy unless we have currency capitals. We now live influx seas, as mentioned in the discussion, are rising to significant interest levels, both in the country's homes and in the business. This money policy is bound to be in total chaos when we need a sustained 3◯4% interest, when families have to pay their homes back two or three times as much as in the deadly European relationship that is often referred to. I think it's time to face reality. There will be no further up - to - date with this money policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-34.u14	Mr. President. In the course of the government of the left green, forward party and the Independence Party, led by Katrín's Jakobsdóttir, the highest. Prime Minister, then says about the EEA contract, by permission of the President: The European Commission considers the implementation of the EEA contract to be one of the most important stakeholders in Iceland, and the General Assembly needs to be more active in this. In the latest report, the highest. The secretary of foreign affairs says so, by permission of the President: If there is a strong delay in the introduction of EEA rules in Icelandic legislation, the result is that it is not possible to follow the same rules in Iceland and elsewhere in the European Economic Areas. This undermines the main objective of the EEA Convention. For a council, there's quite some EEA cases where there's been a cut-off of controlled warnings without the introductions of basic radios into Icelandic rights. I wonder if that means the highest. Secretary of State and the government don't consider the induction to be important? Is it because the Icelandic government has approved of the direct influence of EU types, or do they care about possible benefits due to lack of induction? It is now being added substantially to the Import Hall that the ESA, the EFTA monitoring centre, regularly recommends. How does it rhyme with government policy on the better implementation of the EEA Convention? Despite a set goal of reaching the entrance Hall to 1%, the fact is that the angle has not been reached and, if necessary, it will continue to rise. Mr. President. It is not enough to talk about the importance of the EEA agreement and its rights, its opportunities and rights, but it does not work better than it does. So there is a hollow sound at the highest level of the job. Governments in these matters. [[The president calls.]] I challenge the highest. A government to give himself up and to let his deeds speak.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-34.u15	A respectable president. A few days ago, we were discussing the travel cost of senators, the cost of driving. There we were talking about hundreds of thousands a month, millions a year. At the same time, we pay a disabled person 16,583K. at travel costs, gas costs. Of that amount, only 17746 will return. This is nothing but economic violence. Another person who pays less than 7,000 bucks. the cost of medication is not reversible. How can we justify making laws in the General Assembly that violate human rights? How can we allow these laws to continue because they cannot resist the constitution? What's the most amazing thing about this is that when there's a bill to handle this matter, It should have been handled just one, two, three, compared to the rest that has been taken out of here quickly and well. Then there's another really weird case, a dollar across the line that everyone promised to take away. What will the government do? Yes, she's going to send this cent against a dollar in the rehabilitation capacity. What's to do with her there? So she gets back twice what she's gonna do? There's no relationship between a cent and a dollar's performance. We insist, and especially the poor who are in the lowest range, written at 200,000 k. - and the individuals, like the person that talked about, who's losing all the car strengths, gets $300,000. down payment, and he's paying 70% of the money in housing.
