ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u1	Borist has received a letter from the secretary of state asking for every request to provide a written answer to a petition for this request. 363, about the ratio of commercial food, from Pétursson Ingi.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u2	Mr. President. About two weeks ago, on the women's international day of fighting, I sat down together with other whales. Parliamentary seminars in Hofi, Akureyri, organized by the Communion Institute for Electricity in Iceland. It was an important subject that concerns the entire population of the country, except that it seemed to be women, at least if it was scheduled for the seminar, which included seven lecturers, was just one woman who would not be allowed to participate in panel, where a more important man had to be found. With all due respect to the fine men who were there, I made comments to the director and director of the Office of Living, before the seminar began that only one woman was on the rosary, and in fact I intended to do it. But when it came to the placard talk, it became evident that there was no room for this one woman, I was simply offered enough, and I walked out. Mr. President. I have to make serious comments here on the platform, and I really hope that all the ministers of the government of Katrín the daughter of Jakobsdóttir will take them to themselves and get them to the heads of their institutions. It is not acceptable that in 2018, the entire discussion that has taken place during the last weeks, months, and years, to publicized institutions, or actually some head - over, stand for events in which the second sex was as large as it was experienced at this meeting, especially where it would have been clearly and easily prevented in this case. The government and its institutions are to follow the lead, always wearing the glasses on their nose. [[Open the door, hear, hear!]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u3	A respectable president. On Monday, we were assembled, eight members of all classes at the General Assembly, taking the initiative of an agent of children, the UNICEF, and the Children's Share. The motive was to become a spokesman for children at the General Assembly. We received instruction from our children about the importance of the United Nations Children's Covenant and the importance of having us at the High General Assembly develop a child - bearing viewpoint and always remembering to be guided by the interests of children. It is both the future and the present. They were also so kind as to give us a hug, a hug, that I'm going to wear. This is the third time that members of Congress are designated as spokesmen for children, and this is the second time I sign this declaration. I'm going to stay here to work hard to guide the children's viewpoints and interests in my work. I am honored to receive this role, and it is wonderful to observe the powerful work being done at the scene of these three parties, i.e. Children's agent, UNICEF, and the Children's Share. In particular, it is a pleasure to observe the strong young advice of these parties and to see what we have clearly and bright future in this country. These kids know exactly what they want, they know their rights, and they're ready to defend their rights. Children's spokesmen at the council are, as well as the ones that say, Inga Sæland, Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Ólafsson Þór Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Víglundsson and Andrés Ingi Jónsson. The same is true of all of us. Our primary role is to instruct and encourage all of us, 63 o'clock. Councilmen, to guide the interests of children at all times. [[Open the door, hear, hear!]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u4	A respectable president. I'm going to make it a subject of the recent National Conference of Independence, which I congratulate them on, as well as of all others who have held their national meetings. But I think I've made one way off, especially because it's where independents are clearly becoming increasingly inclined toward the ideals and policy for which the people's party is fighting, i.e. To eliminate the decline and eliminate poverty. It was very enjoyable here yesterday to listen to what happened. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson. I'd like to quote his words, by permission of the President. In it Ásmundur writes: ▪ I was particularly pleased that at the end of the council, it was agreed to reduce the loss of disability and pension. It's one of our big issues that we want to work on, to ensure all the opportunities to participate in a labour market... - But now, listen, a respectable president: ... $1 a.m., against a dollar decrease, it still goes on with those who are in the disability business. The decline is to be canceled already, it was accepted. I am happy and confident that we in this house will stand together for that change. Says who. paritaprevir After this wonderful last weekend of independence, Ásmundur Friðriksson. I say, it certainly is a pleasure, since we live in the Gang of the people who have, for example. a bill on a respectable welfare committee that claims to violate the income of an older citizen's income, one of the two primarys we've already proposed. What a joy it is to know that there is right now a source of wealth and the will for the wonderful promises of the recent Independence Meeting! All I'm saying is, "Beautiful and smile saves the day." And good things happen slowly. The drop sure breaks the stone. We're in good hands.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u5	Mr. President. I'd like to use this opportunity to call attention to a bill waiting to be decomposed. A professional health committee. It is very important that the bill receive positive coverage and be used for the next fishing year. The bill is about asking out a couple of extra weedies. The codfish population has never been as large as the likely addition, though not a few. If we are not going to continue moving those who have the quota, all the more, we must change the law on fishing control immediately. During the last four years of fishing, the codfish has increased by about 40 o'clock. ton and on the last ten years about 100%, about 130 of you. a ton. The cry system in the fishing road, where only one was denied free access to the resource, while others authorized on the basis of past history, will suffer the long run of this article if nothing has to be done. The powers given are considerable, and the decisions they make may be the future of sailors, commercial workers, their families, and their entire settlements. Today, young and progressive sailors can begin their business by buying a quarter of a fortune or by renting from the others who have been tormented at a price that has been at the price of a fish lab at a price of 1,100,200. the last eight pounds. To balance the status of those who are already in the fishing business and of those who are interested in starting the project, the distribution of the quatane needs to be made more reasonable. Our cousins are developing a way for which peers have long spoken, i.e. that it is not to be given to all to the others who received it last year, it is always entitled to rent it from the owner of the resource. In the Faeroe Islands, there was an invitation to pay rent prices about 60 k. per kilogram. There's at least 60% discount from the landlord's funeral in this country and would thus be a huge bargain for those who are now renting a quota of the deforestation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u6	A respectable president. I want to use this opportunity to cover surveillance cameras or police cameras. Such cameras are becoming an unbreakable part of the police in public space in many parts of Europe, as well as to curb the threat of terrorism. There is no need to say that in this field major technological advances have been made. Of course, here the views of personal protection and social security and law enforcement are addressed. The decrease in cost of buying more and more sophisticated devices has resulted in greater use and saving of the image material, with greater sensitivity and prevention, than the increase in the intensity of the image products over the course of the year. The usefulness of this footage is obvious to the police during the exposure of fractures as well as to allow the police to react in real time. This technique can also be used for law enforcement purposes, e.g. to monitor vehicles, e.g. Untrusted or unoccupied. Here is the countless benefits of such cameras at border patrols, where technology can be invaluable in using analysis of people who are cross-bordering. There is an unnamed control camera for the P.R. to force vehicles to enter and out of danger zones that can make a difference in emergency space. To date, trade, production, business, and renewal of these devices have been in many different ways in many parts of the country, and even a delay has taken place in many parts of the country. It is important that the procedure for this party should be agreed with that it takes full consideration of the personal protection principle so that all the people of the country live in this respect with the same security on this important issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u7	A respectable president. The last one we had had had a problem with. Senator Nondurvest. "Tox Björn Einarsson, the initiative to begin a discussion on the state of the seabed in that district and in the whole country. The occasion was determined, strike, fishing price dropped, gang situation, and the fact that hunting was raising a lot of costs. Fishing costs of the state's budget rise dramatically from year to year, leaving 5.5 billion to more than 10 billion dollars. The production and sum of fishing costs that are now being paid is on the increase and survival that are not in any way consistent with today's reality. The conclusion of the discussion. paritaprevir The Tox Björn Einarsson started with the former head of the Council's Professional Committee, please. paritaprevir Páll Magnússon, agreed to make an analysis of the survival of the building. The key results of this analysis are as follows: Intensification in the fishing road drew up some 25 billion dollars. approximately 9% between 2015 and 2016. The largest means of loss of income was the fishing industry. The EBITDA fishing industry was reduced by 22% between 2015 and 2016. The overall debt status of the article developed in 2016 in a positive way, in that total debt was decreased, and the financial debt increased. However, because of a decrease in debt with the proportion of EBITDA, there was a decline in the ability to earn money. Based on the movement of the main economics and export prices of marine products, there is a high probability that there will be some deterioration in 2017. This is due, among other things, to the adverse development of external economics, the price of marine products has dropped substantially in the United States, and the pay number has increased considerably. Deloitte believes that the EBITDA Seaway may have dropped in 2017 by 20◯37%, and then it picks up a range of 37◯45 billion dollars. A respectable president. National development companies in the northwestern district and in the whole country vary in size and size. I say, it is not an option to take a serious discussion about this when the council regroups after Easter. It's not an option to do anything, otherwise you can look to a very serious position.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u8	A respectable president. Interestingly, when it comes to the affairs of the capital, many in this room have opinions about where the city's targets could land. And, yes, there are many people who want the city to decide for themselves a number of city agents, but when it comes to her deciding whether an airport or an apartment is next to the town, it should be done by a messenger, either directly or through a national agreement that is supposed to know what happens. Now I'm not going to hurt anybody. That is why I can imagine that many of those who feel this way about the airport floor feel that it is for the benefit of the city. That's why I don't agree. From their viewpoint, it would be a very exciting option if a new national and international airport could be located near the capital. It would shorten the trip to a foreign land, increase the population's ability to travel, and improve their quality of life. I'd like to finally mention one thing, not quite this link. Thousands of Icelanders left the country in the collapse, many to the north. Young people, academics, industrialized people. These people haven't come home yet. We need it back. Farmers, Reykjavík as others, play a key role there, but there are some things that you cannot do unless we all do one thing. When it comes to things such as increasing money, securing a wide range of employment opportunities, and providing children with acceptable education, they will succeed only if their countries work together.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u9	A respectable president. I would like to make a subject of this team's work, the job of the council. Special work of the council today. And maybe yesterday too. We are on the program in front of us on No. Three, an election for the county, an election age. Yesterday, because of a long and large discussion on financial policy, this issue did not come into play. Unfortunately, yesterday's program was shaken by a significant discussion about the President's conference board, which I think might have been prevented, for example. If you have the highest. A minister would have felt the need to be in the hall during the discussion or, if any, in his own case. The presidents of the House of Government would have requested that in advance. I think we all could have prevented the program from holding up like this. And we're back on business issues later. I want to impress all of us here when it comes to the language of No. 3. Now it's getting shorter to the end of whether we can make these changes in the election year for the next election or not, i.e. to lower it to 16 years. Some 9,000 young people are receiving a vote for the district election, and this bill will be a law. I have full faith in us in this room that when we really put forth effort and take decisive action and good care of ourselves, we can show that we can handle matters here at a reasonable rate. I hope so much that we can resolve this matter. It will only be seen if more is involved or not. There are four committee views that have a wide range of views and viewpoints. So I don't think we're undernecess to finish this case, and hopefully it'll have to be legal before the council goes on Easter holiday so those 9,000 young people waiting to know if they'll get an answer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u10	A respectable president. I would like to have a language, such as before worrying about the future, especially after recent information was presented at a meeting of the branch committee not too long ago. Organists, i.e. those evaluated with 75% or more of the energy estimates have reached 20 thousand. Over the course of ten years, from 2007 to 2017, there has been an increase in the number of donations each year. In comparison to that number, the work market participants are about 190 thousand. In 2016, the incidence of disability for the first time exceeded the natural growth in the labour market, i.e. The energy assessment of 75% was received by more than new ones into the Icelandic labour market. There is a lot of concern that the increase is the most important in women aged 30 to740 years and in boys aged 20 to 3030 years. If you were to make the most informed of that, the most common reason for the incidence of disability in the boys is mental disorders and musculoskeletal disorders among the young women. This is a much larger number, especially in these age groups, than we know in the other North countries. We cannot watch thousands of young people labeled out for work, perhaps for life, if we can do something about it. It is expensive for society, but it is, of course, even more costly for the people who are going through it. Our emphasis is to shift from what is now in progress to helping people in rehabilitation so that they can get back to the workforce.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u11	V.E.G. President. During the days, the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs proposed a proposal for a policy-making strategy for 2018-2024. The proposal is now in the government's consultations, where all can send in envelopes until the end of the year. Four today. The building program is designed to promote positive development and to promote their competitiveness as well as their national environment. The structure is all the subjects that influence quality of life and the competitiveness of part of the country, such as residence, employment, and innovation. They are developing social, social, employment, education, culture, welfare, transportation, telecommunications and resources. According to that definition, based issues are in some way the subject of all advisers. Therefore, it is important to coordinate based policy with any group of case, whether in a state or in a community. The groundwork proposed for introduction has three objectives: equal access to services, equal opportunities for employment, and contributing to sustainable development across the country. The candidates and I are glad that this proposal has been submitted. She's in the spirit of what we've been talking about for the last two weeks, and she's followed. a lot of importance in campaigning. The programme will include measures such as giving persons who need to work away from home tax charge due to travel related to work. It also suggests the use of the student loan system that motivates people to settle in scattered settlements. Thus, increasing expertise throughout the country, increasing the number of advanced people in scattered areas, and increasing diversity can be contributed. In addition, many other measures are provided. They are timed and are assigned to a responsible provider for each component. V.E.G. President. The building program is to be celebrated, and I consider it to be the highest level. Ministers and members of the entire body to present this important matter throughout the council. That's important to the people.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u12	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The spirit of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir for dealing with the role of children's spokesmen. I am proud to play that part on behalf of my council. I'm going to discuss forestry, for today, March 21, is an international day of forest, and this year it is the anniversary of the day's development and sustainable cities, at the decision of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization. The plan is to draw attention to the fact that the specific use of urban trees can reduce pollution, including particulates, reduce noise, balance of temperature fluctuations, contribute to water protection and water supply, increase the quality of transportation and quality of life in cities in many ways. Last week, the Environmental and Transport Committee visited the forestry Research Committee at the Mogil River and met several representatives of those who drag the bus into forestry in Iceland; representatives of the forestry, forestry society, and forest farmers. The common objective of the forestry sector today is the quadruption of the newly developed forest, but it is only doubled compared to the annual use of deforestation. Many have to face this challenge because the forestry industry has a wide range of advantages. It can provide significant carbon binding, protect the soil resources, build up a forest resource for wood production, and other crops. Therefore, in this context, I would like to point out that the state has already made agreements with the forest farmers about four times as much forestry as it now passes. Everything is ready, land, plans, active force, and organization. It would be possible to plant four times more in 10 years if the State was on the part of the deal. Finally, I'd like to face a challenge. paritaprevir A Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, whom he brought in at the council yesterday, to set up a fund that would be the basis for the deforestation funding, whether from public, businesses, or the public.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u13	A respectable president. I recently came across a quote on the Internet that I enjoy rather fondly, which is shown in the legal jokes published by Ólafur Stefánsson of Kalmanautus. The quote is, by permission of the president: ▪ ljóstollur, and Magnús Stephensen, governor of the country, were familiar and obliging. On one occasion, they and a Þorvaldur officer were talking on the street. Then the Þorvaldur notices and says: 'You are the governor, Eyjólfur?' And it came to pass, that the Eyjólfur was very littleÞorvaldur and immediately he answered, I pray thee, God and good men, but ye devil, and ye art. This made me think about it. When we talk about Generalis's respect: I sometimes find it hard to find ourselves complaining that we do not care enough, do not use the right words to describe our scandal over the conduct of the authorities. But the respect for the Generals and the respect of the Generals is not about talking, not wearing fancy suits, though there's nothing wrong with wearing a nice suit, that's just great. It does not mean holding back shock when authorities do something improper. Respect is not part of a word use. The respect the people receive from the people is basically the same as the Council shows the nation itself. If so, we need to be careful about our place. Not whether we're wearing this suit or not, but what we're doing here. One of the main roles of the Generals is to be an accompaniment and a demonstration of the State itself. That means sometimes you talk without a word, sometimes called human language. It is part of the respect of the General of the public, a respectable president. It's not about satisfaction, it's about saying things the way they are. I specifically mention this because people in this area have frequently come in and complain that when people speak indiscriminately, they are disrespectful to the Council. On the contrary, a respectable president, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u14	Mr. President. First, I want to encourage you. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Otter's Óttarsson Proppér' about us trying to keep a schedule today to counter important issues, so hopefully we'll get to the top. The secretary of finance will soon see him in a house because we are discussing his financial policies here. Other than that. Every day, every week, every month, Syrian women and children become sexually abused by employees of humanitarian organizations who come to the country for relief purposes. Men serve at the United Nations and other international institutions, and they take advantage of the women's plight by providing them with food against sex. This is still true, despite repeated indications and despite the fact that a coal - colored report has been published by the United Nations as to the fact that this is still a people. The United Nations and other relief agencies have declared that the tolerance of such vile acts is complete, but it still works. It is said that this abuse is so common that some Syrian women refuse to appear in the distribution center because it is assumed that by means of it they would have sold their bodies for food to their children. At the International Women's Convention held here at the end of the last year, a seminar discussed women in war. It was amazing to hear from all over the world the attitudes of women saying and wondering why the United Nations does not denounce the gross offenses that are taking place on the part of those people, their employees. We are a people of peace, and therefore I urge in the Lady of the International Government to use ourselves within the United Nations because these horrible attacks against women and children in war will be condemned. I wish at least The government's efforts in this regard, according to the fact that the government is acting in this regard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u15	V.E.G. President. I'd like to make it a subject of recent growth decisions from Iceland's Federal Bank, which is a week old today. In short, the late bank determined that the bank's main growth is unchanged in 4.25% and that it is about twice that of the last months. The decision is made on the basis of the Federal Bank, even though the economy has only begun to cool off, despite the fact that there is a difficult bargaining situation in which the economy is now only getting cold. I'll bet they'll have the interest level in the country. The other day, when several of his employees met and stepped on their backs for good success in combating inflation, a seminar was held by a seminary. There the surprising statement was made by the head economist of the Sensian Bank, by permission of the Supreme Bank. The lack of credibility among the public and company at 2.5% of thekraut's inflation aims explains to a large extent little inflation in recent years. I would now have liked to see this phrase in English, but it may be that there is one person who has relatively little faith in the merits of the Federal Bank, and that is the Sentencing Bank. That may not be strange. He has overrated inflation for three years with each growth resolution after another, and it is natural to hope that one's karytian view of these views will arise one month after the month, where things in the outside world will be useful to us and the inflation will continue to be low, but this is not to be used in the interest of growth. In one country in the OECD countries, we can't move the interest, in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] They must be four times, five times what happens in neighboring countries. [[The president calls.]] There must be something wrong in here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u16	A respectable president. I'm going to start by reading from a letter I received, with president's permission: ◯ Since 2011, there has been an active work group on the review of agricultural impairment. Has he sought to call attention to the status of those who do not receive a full energy, rehabilitation, or pension due to a living abroad; with the word "institution" is a reduced payment for individuals due to the percentage of their living outside of Iceland. In order to explain this further, only those who have lived in Iceland for 40 years, ranging from 16◯70 years, have the right to the disability recovery or pension. If a person has been living abroad for a short period of time, before reaching old age, or who needs disability or rehabilitation because of health or accident, the share of the population is calculated and the pension is determined accordingly. What does this mean in English? Yes, a person may live at 70 o'clock. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. He does not receive social benefits or anything, for if he or she has a mate, the marriage mate should maintain it. These are one of the poorest individuals in Iceland today. It's a small group of 2,000 people. It must be simple to see that merely paying these individuals out a personal discount would double their income. Hence, we need to find reasonable minimums, not minimums, but normal payments that people can survive with dignity and make sure that no one gets less than them. That's what we have to do. These people live in dire poverty and shame us to let anyone in Iceland have to be in this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u17	President wants to make you happy. Councilmen by the highest degree. The secretary of finance is in the house and will be there for the discussion, while the president is also aware of the Supreme Court. A minister has urgent responsibilities in other parts of the town up to five and will then be interrupted for this discussion and included in other forms of the program during his absence.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u18	Mr. President. It is certainly a very large issue on this program, the government's financial policy until five years of age. I'm involved in a minority party and its spokesman, w. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson has made a thorough account of this. So I can just kill down here and where in this big, big, wide language. I would like to see that there are many things said in the opinion of the greater part, and I thank the chairman of his leadership of careful legal treatment. The important laws that now make up the cover of the state's budget, the 2015 public financial legislation, give careful consideration to financial policies. It should be divided into factors, i.e. the most comprehensive target of recovery and economy, i.e. More specifically, the scope, recovery and development of possessions, the debt and the long-term commitment of the state to total and the public to no less than five years. Second, see the same article, Article 4. a law on government finance, stipulation that part of the financial policy should be an overview of how specific baseline values are applied in Article 6. The law, if you will follow. This report shall be on both policies, on the development of pay and on tax policy and other government revenues. Now it is so, Mr. President, that there has been a series of searchs in existing financial policy, the Congress resolution, but this report seems to be hard to find. It is put in place to list the baseline values of one six that are listed, including sustainableness and carefulness and transparency and more good and this report, if under that name, includes counting these baselines and laying out the meaning of these terms. There is a lack of description or identification of how these baselines will be followed in terms of the development of pay and tax policy and other government revenues. The basis for this policy is a forecast of economic developments in the coming days. It is very precise in terms of official financial legislation how to put aside the economic and national policies that should be based on reliable grounds and data and to carry out objective and systematic, etc., public economics and national forecasts and for which the government's financial and economic plans should be taken into account. There are at least two factors, Mr. President, on the one hand, that allow the available forecasts to be somewhat optimistic, and I think it may be safe to say that the reviews that have been received on the subject are accords and also the visitors who have taken the financial committee home for this matter. This optimistic outlook on life there calls for aside, or it will also help us to understand how this land would be settled under conditions less optimistic than those laid down in this vital document. It is quite common in this industry to apply what is called policy deviations, and it seems to be as relevant in this relationship as in many other places. According to its official review, sensitivity analysis, comparing results with different conditions, not just one basis, and that is a relatively optimistic basis. Caution is one of the baseline values, and is virtue, Mr. President, especially when it comes to predicting economic developments and especially when this applies for a relatively long time, as in this case, i.e. Five years ahead. These methods are often attributed to the so - called staging process, which would have been necessary in preparing the financial policy available here. The other thing about the economic factors is that, as the Law text says, it should be taken into consideration by the financial and economic benefits of government plans. This does not seem to be done sufficiently in an existing Senate resolution, for example. A review of the Conspiracies of finance companies and that says, with the permission of a president: There is no discussion in the Parliamentary arrangement for the impact of financial policy on the economy, i.e. how it is expected that the government will have a financial impact. You can, for example. Ask if the result of the aim-to-be contributes to the continuation of business ventures with foreign countries or public wastes is sufficient to prevent tensions, as you might call them, from forming in a labour market. There is not much of it and actually no attempt to answer such questions. The next step is to kill on the terms of Article 4. for public finance, for aims to be expressed as proportion to GDP. This wording does not appear to be ambiguous for the establishment of targets as an absolute range of national product. It seems even reasonable to be so careful, especially when policy is maintained as long as this is, and in view of the uncertainty of economic progress. It has, Mr. President, a peculiar unrealisticity to present such numbers with one decimal, as if such precision can be expected of things you see here, five years in advance. Of course, financial advisers work on the documents that are presented in preparation for the financial affairs of the state, and they have a legal body in this respect to the opinion of a financial body. In his conclusion on the latest financial agenda, financial advice pointed out that to meet society's needs effectively, as it is said, it should be. Support the so-called cost-benefit analysis when it comes to government investment decisions and funding. This method is widely used systematically, e.g. for investment decisions in infrastructure and most major decisions in public management. It would be good to support decision making, support the baseline sustainable development and to increase production and production of the economy in the long term. It should be agreed with financial advice that priorities need to be reflected in the practicality of tasks. It should also be said by means of financial advisement that it is important to consider dealing with debt and the public balance of property. The emphasis on the decrease in debt should not result in loss of property quality. The financial policy allows for internalisation and maintenance of possessions, but there is no clear explanation for the development of this infrastructure and therefore cannot be determined whether it is sufficient to prevent the loss of possessions. The basis for sustainability requires, in the opinion of the financial board, that such analysis is carried out. It is a law to take into account the long-term commitment of public members. This law, as it points out, requires that there be a clear explanation for the debt of pension, which, of course, matters to a great degree to the financial resources of the state. It can also be said by Government Accounting, which can be considered to be of special interest in financial policy coverage, that it would provide a more effective picture in terms of income and expenses, not just the rest. It will then be necessary to agree with financial advisers when, Mr. President, it reiterates its indications made in previous opinions that the rest of government operations does not necessarily reflect the maintenance of public funds. The point is that while the remainder of the government business is increased, the maintenance level as it is called relaxation may be at the same time. Why is this? Yeah, it's because the mood swings in the nation's industry can distort the picture. The built-in components of the public income and payoffs increase income and reduce up-to-rate spending and in the opposite direction. This results in what is called an automatic fluctuation that reduces the contracture and repulsion effects of the economic fluctuation. Hence, these factors need to be taken into account to evaluate the underlying levels of public wealth. To shock the most widely used tongue in this field, Mr. President, can't help the practicality of the adjusted primacy. It is the instrument that humans prefer to rely on in this science, and it can be agreed with financial advice when it says that this standard should be used when evaluating public financial standards. Similarly, in view of the transparency that is one of the baseline values, it would be appropriate for the government to both calculate and light the resulting maintenance phase so that stability can be assessed in the course and suggest the basis for this above - mentioned method and I shall not be taken back into the mouth to not put too much weight on the atmosphere here, since it is naturally a very technical language. Finally, Mr. President, I'd like to be able to handle a point that may not have been mentioned in this discussion, but it's a beginning in a financial policy called a national fund. It is here a headline, the government's economic system, which says that it is of great importance how public funds are handled and that a government fund has to be capable of supporting the economy in case of severe economic hardship. Then, with the permission of a president, it is obviously desirable to continue paying off debts, to do so - in particular when well - worked years. Also says that there is sound evidence for building up a national fund, and it is there specified in the English language as well as that I intend to allow myself to be put in the mouth of the Icelandic race, the Sover property Wealth Fund. It is apparent by saying that both have economic security for the future. Commenting on the government policy of finance, it says that there will be continued care to continue subsidies, and then it says that the structure of a national fund in order to cope with unscheduled misfortunes that will be financed by regular financial contributions by partners in the state - owned ticket. Here, Mr President, it is said that national funds are supported by a valid argument, but it is not said, by permission to say, to specify any of the evidence. What task, can you ask, is there such a treasure to carry? More than what has been said about what income will be, who could enjoy payment from the fund, and what conditions? Who are to rule by Jehovah, how will his work be overlapd with the treasure of his Kingdom, and who will be responsible for such a treasure? By permission, Mr. President, what are these questions in financial policy? I allow me to call this a question because there is a lack of much more extensive publicity, as is attributed to the financial counsel on this national fund, which has been an excellent thing to do, indeed, for the preservation of intimidation, which, of course, must be considered an option. It says that on the part of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, it is proclaimed in the Treaty that national funds will be financed by the resources of the country, they have the role of building resistance to cope with financial problems, as well as the role of promoting innovation and supporting the growth and development of spherical companies, as well as the use of a part of the fund for the building of nursing plants for the oldest generation, etc., but here are certain warning messages on the part of the financial Council, which say that such funds can create a problem of temptation and the need for a baseline mentality in this regard. I allow myself, Mr. President, to express surprise that such inborn speculations may lead to financial policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u19	A respectable president. Thank you for your talk. Hv. A senator came on the very committee opinion that we are importers made up of the reporters that I couldn't cover in my discussion; the commission is long, so I wanted to go further into it. It is this statement that all or the majority of the reporters agreed that the economic forecast was too optimistic. We can read about the economy that during one year, the projections for growth have grown from about 6% before 2017 to 3.8%, to 2.9% in advance in 2018. What does it mean, for a man as educated as he is in this field, that we're going from forecasting to about 6% down to 2.9% in one year? These are thoughts that I wanted to share. Senator. Iceland's business council also warned of commercial forecasts and gave caution; that, based on business balance of the year, it is only March now, it has to be considered unlikely that the Habitat forecasts will be met by 140 billion commercial markets. I wanted to have a place to say. A senator of these statements and his interpretation of them, being educated in these studies.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u20	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It may not take much learning or wisdom to see that when there is such significant changes in the forecasts and a review of existing numbers, the whole, and the second, call for a review of policy in that light. I want to use this opportunity to draw attention to what is said by a financial body on the interaction of predicting and policy that the basis for the national forecasting on which financial policy is based is not consistent with the present information and the existing policy. As a result, several aspects of the material are involved. These include factors related to co-administration and the plans for reducing the general level of value taxation. That's the line on page 8. 18 in the opinion of a financial body. This point in the opinion of a financial body, as well as the factors. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson points out, of course, should lead to a simple review of the financial program.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u21	A respectable president. In this atmosphere and the environment of large changes, as far as forecasts are concerned, is it not necessary for the council to have these aberrant predictions, these cosmology and sensitivity analysis, such as financial advisers and other reporters? What are we really going to agree on, if the Allied Congress unscheduled this financial policy, without handing up this information, when we see these dramatic changes in economic forecasts and these references that some of the assumptions, such as with the client's palace, are not going to be successful?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u22	Mr. President. There would have been much improvement, and it might have been viewed as a normal way of working on it, that policy would be based on different scenarios of possible economic developments. This is only natural and normal. I would like to let me draw attention to what is said on page 18. 19 In the opinion of a financial body, the Council of Economic Affairs called for a staging analysis. And further reports that financial advisers do not feel sufficient to report that there has been a deviation, that needs to be defined by the basis for the films and clearly demonstrating the effect of different scenarios to form and interact with government of public finance and the goals of policy makers. Mr. President. Of course, the repeated comments that in earlier references were made to one thing and another are critical on the part of a financial body that will not be misunderstood. Its earlier indications simply were ignored.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u23	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Ísleifsson For good talk, the Ólafur of Ishoffrei was given. In my speech, I decided that the senator complained that there was no covering with the proposal, and I acted exactly as I read the proposal. We're about as young here at the council, and I'm using a great reading in order to understand both the originals and the council proposals. When a government law was passed in 2015 or so, and there's a financial plan under that hat, I've been thinking about something, and I'd like to ask the senator about it. Now it has been very difficult in recent years to find funding for building wood. We're talking about transportation, which has gone beyond the last day of sales. We are talking about health issues that are not as good as we want, electrical issues around the country, and so on, law enforcement, and so forth. Is it possible for the senator to interpret to me whether he reads out on this financial agenda that things are becoming a big deal changing under public finance? The secretary of transportation now speaks of millions coming from banks beyond the corner, but it is not yet in hand. So I'm gonna throw this question to the senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u24	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. One is financial policy, and another is financial planning. We must naturally wait here with almost unbearable excitement, for the financial program that we are told to see in the first days of a new month, April, and, of course, will welcome a presentation, perhaps one day before it is made public. I'm looking forward to it. Thus, in these respects humans face a real challenge to the interior. On the one hand, their structure and maintenance have been in the background for the past few years. In some respects, we will have normal explanations if we look at the collapse and other such things, but we are now far away from them. Then, of course, it is not just a maintenance project, but a very large project in this field, and there are very good and clear reports on it to form the major industrial infrastructure report that marks a turning point in a report on these topics. Similarly, there is reason to draw attention to what is discussed in the opinion of a financial Council, which is linked to the terms produced on the other hand and on the other hand, and how infrastructure building can contribute to increased production, increasing prosperity and improving the quality of living in the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u25	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I know something. But it hangs naturally together, i.e. Budget plan, financial policy. I heard yesterday's speech, and I can't remember what a senator would bring it, but he said that if financialism was not good, as he noted, there would be a danger that the Navy would increase direction. Does the senator feel that way? Similarly, if you are high in steering, there is a growing field of natural interest on loans and so on. I'm gonna ask the senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u26	V.E.G. President. Of course, it is interesting and interesting to associate a financial debate with the money policy. Of course, the emphasis must be compatible. It seems to me that the late bat would be a guess for conferences to either raise interest or maintain it to a relatively high degree. This also gives rise to what is now much under consideration here on various committees, to form in the Economic and Business Committees and Budget Committees, to be held here on top of all influx seas, which I shall not list in any long term, but which most people seem to agree to contribute to a much higher interest level, thereby providing more interest in state funds, companies and households than at any other time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u27	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Hv. A senator is on committee party 2 smaller parts along with a hard drive. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví the son of Gunnarsson, and the Birgir of the son of Þórarinsson. It briefly discusses the translucency kicker, which in the suggestion itself is addressed very little. As indicated in paragraph 2, the word is used only three times in the suggestion itself and once in the list of five baseline values mentioned. There are two types of transparency, one of which is the type of transparency which provides information and numbers, and you have access to information. The other species of transparency is where processes, systems, calculations, and handling of data are clear that it is easy to perceive and use them to draw conclusions or to find out what else. I have often felt that when the authorities give information, at first they are a little overcrowded, but especially, when they do not, they often act as if things are extremely simple and obvious. I think everyone knows how to go to some government agency and ask for some information or try to get to something, and the way the agency treats you is an idiot because you haven't worked there for 20 years or what it is. It is a tiresome attitude that is found in many governments. It's also the feeling I get in a lot of these things. I wanted to ask you what. A senator because he is more accustomed to using such financial data than I do, whether he considers the transparency of the second species, not what numbers are necessarily published, but how useful they are in considering how to use them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u28	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for his contribution. I'm going to allow myself to say, Mr. President, that I believe that this law on government finance is a turning point, I'm not the first to say this, but they do it for a number of reasons. One thing is that the main concept of the law, or at least One of the most important ideas in the law is that very important policies and, of course, to every government the budget should be set up at certain baselines, as it is called. One of these baselines is a natural range of translucency. A senator turned into a subject of publicity. In many ways, the reviews and a variety of helpful comments on this point. Then, of course, there are values that might also have been available. One of the values that make up the list is not profitable. So you could continue to count. But as for the transparency, it is a very important role, and it is disappointing that these articles that the law commands to be part of financial policies should be no bigger than it really is, and it would certainly have been helpful to see that there would be an analysis of the extent to which the available policy is based on transparency as well as other values. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u29	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I know why. A member of the committee who has participated in these discussions, reviewing reviews, and, unlike me, I am not on this committee and have not the same knowledge about the treatment of the council. I wondered: " Is it a feeling? A senator that this transparent kicker will eventually get better? I wondered about this because an article on the case says that it is legal, under the civil law, to follow this issue that is not laid down. It says that it is not possible to publish information on property and economics for the public as a whole because they don't have the law on fiscal income, if I understand this correctly. I find some small effort here to provide some information later, and it seems to whom it would be sufficient to see that this is a law that hoped to be revolutionary in government finance. So I ask. In view of his experience with the treatment of the council, would it be possible that the transparency hook will improve or improve significantly in the future compared with the current treatment?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u30	Mr. President. We're at this place of work a little bit of the time when things are the way they are, and a little missing in various ways, that they're still learning, but I think this lesson course is for me if I can use it, it's a little flat in my eyes. I don't think this lesson is going too fast. To make up the fact that we're here three years after the law has given us a discussion of ordering a report, by the law, about these baseline values, there is nothing to be found in any way that would live up to a name. I would also like to use this opportunity to draw attention to other factors that make up the law on government finance to view long - term, long - term factors. In terms of financial management, there are very important demographics here, such as the aging of the people and other factors, and this is reminded of the financial Council of 9 g. The law on government finances stipulates the long term detection of trends and prospects. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Of course it doesn't.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u31	A respectable president. The financial policy of the Independence Party, the forward party, and the left green is not much different from the financialism of an independent party, the restoration and the future. Yet, this financial policy is more irresponsible. Because of the loss of revenue, the necessary changes are being made to the surface. A financial body points out that there is a need for the government's financial policy and the UN's money policy to stabilise the economy, and they do so in the same way. In the course of the previous government, the importance of this has been emphasized more than in the policy we now address. The financial policy of each government is put forward only once in each terms, for five years, or until a new government sets out a new policy. The financial policy is one of the most important contracts of the season. It involves a great commitment to how to deal with government tax and spending policies. It must be adhered to by the government, but its review is under strict conditions. According to 1 0... the law on government finance can only be revised if its core managers fail or are predictable as a result of economic failure, national or other circumstances that are impossible to handle with available resources. It is not enough that governments want to change their policy or some weaknesses have been treated by the government of government that they prefer to reroute. If there is no great event that causes the core policy to fail, the government should take action in a financial program that will result in the achievement of the financial policy's goals on the income side, on the remuneration side, or in subsidies. Budgetism is the basis for public financial policies, and its economic factors are discussed specifically in Article 8. it's a government law. This article says that policy is based on solid basis and data prepared objective and systematicly and public interest rates and national interests. In particular, policy measures are taking into account the economic and economic impact of government plans. Thus it is clear that the presentation of financial policy should take into account the economic and economic impact of government plans and the rich demand for transparency to see how governments operate. The baseline values of the public financial law are in addition to transparency, self-sustaining, carefulness, stability and firmness. A baseline transparency requires that there be clear and measurable goals. So I specifically criticize the regulations marked in financial policy for III and read, so by President's permission: By 2018, the total pay of the government is growing by 0.6% of GDP since the previous year. Development of the extent of public activity throughout the period will be in a way that contributes to economic stability. Mr. President. How will governments do this? By letting the Secret Bank straighten out the course when it's at its height. The government has drawn the wagon in the opposite direction? I need to clarify this, and I expect you to have a better explanation. The senators who speak here can explain this law better than that. The chairman of the budget committee made earlier during the discussion. Clearly, a decrease in taxation on its own during a period of high production potential can be considered to be a permanent contribution - directly to the financial conference's opinions. It is particularly disappointing that in the proposal of the government and in the majority of the budgetament committees, there are no clear comments made by a financial body on a number of factors that are important to consider in the current policy strategy. A financial body is legally intended to evaluate the policy and comments of the Council, including those given by the Governing Body. that the transport service needs a clearer framework and the need to obtain more money from the growing number of tourists. It is difficult to back up taxes in favor of tourism beyond other sources, and this does not result in a greater loss of employment diversity. A financial conference points out that in the financial strategy it is deemed that recent increases in pay have not led to increased inflation due to favorable circumstances. It also discusses the challenge that real wages cannot increase beyond production; stability is essential. Increasing production is the basis for long-term improvement in terms of sustainability. As a result, biological changes, especially the aging of the people, will tend to reduce economic growth. This country's growth has been slow for a long time. The financial policy does not include information on how to promote increased production, and it is known that tourism does not increase its growth. So its growth does not solve the production problem. Then financial advice also makes serious comments that the plan does not take into account the practical correction. If so, it is clear that the expected amount of money left over should be greater than the policy. From the review of the financial council, it is clear that rising income is needed so that the welfare system will not be cut down if circumstances change in the economy and governments can land into a straitjacket of financial policy. Because of the importance of financial policy and the difficulty in changing it, it is essential that its presentation be clear and transparent. Budget and financial debt benchmarks are set out as a proportion of GDP as expected by government financial legislation. A clearer presentation is preferable, such as with a total budget and income plan with and without capital teams, i.e. equations and equations for each year of the strategy. A financial body points out that considering the extent of uncertainty the future may bring, it is advisable not to encourage all financial groups. The Council believes that one percent of the remainder's targets is too accurate and points out that the government budget does not rule out a wide range of goals, e.g. with point estimates, one-sided or two-sided intervals, with or without conditional conditions. The government and the majority of the budgetors ignore these and other financial statements. It's for a long time. The F.A. and Business Committee sent them what? This point was addressed to the financial agenda. A financial and business committee spoke of it in his review that it was desirable to do what was right. A legal committee would make changes in terms of financial matters, but it was not followed. You'd rather stay in your straitjacket. It is preferable to ensure that there is financial and debt space to offset the decline in future economic rhythms. The government's recovery and debt status need to provide opportunities to use public funds in a balance. The fiscal project is mainly focused on balance of environmental economic conditions. But this is not done. The terms are not used for that purpose. Instead, real interest rates are expected to be similar to economic growth in the period. There is much conflict over the course of a journey, simply because the automatic fluctuation in terms of government affairs simply does not assume that income and expenses will grow to the same extent. Thus, fluctuation is decompressed. The financial adviser points out that it would best not to be included in any type of expenses or on the income side but to make the built - in fluctuation control. However, it is not a government policy that also ignores the current financial tips, as well as the previous financial policies of other governments. The tax system works by reducing the proportion of taxes on income when it's high and at the same time reduces the expense of the welfare system, such as unemployment improvements and income-related equations. The automatic equilibrium has been weakened by tax declines to the top of the economy during the last good year and continued on that course. Thus, taxes do not increase as much as would otherwise have been. This is the problem facing us, and it is necessary to draw more attention. Management reduces income resources, including with the argument that a simpler tax system is better than a fair tax system and will probably tell the general public that unfortunately there is not enough money to take on the necessary and urgent measures for transport and welfare systems because economic stability is needed. In recent years, government institutions have been weakened, reducing the maintenance of financial matters and significantly reducing the scope for needed welfare benefits. Many urgent measures to improve health systems, education systems, transportation, and social security are urgent. Since automatic fluctuation is not to be used in the economy, the maintenance of financial policy is to use the welfare system as the main economy. It is carried out by means of unfunded, urgent welfare benefits and infrastructure, as well as the weakness of the child and growth plants. The obvious fact is that when you reduce your activity, you will be cut down in the welfare system or tax increases along the way. It is an unacceptable vision and policy that does not agree with the baseline laws on public finances, on sustainability, stability, stability, and stability, and is completely skimmed by equal policies on justice, well - being, and equation. The basic values of the law on public financial matters are five, as I said earlier in my talk, and we should not forget that the baseline values and financial rules play an even greater role in government laws. The government's financial policy is clear in that we know where it leads us. It is an old route that the right governments have taken over and over again. Clearly, if income sources are not used to finance needed financial and transport costs, the urgent improvements in financial policy duration will not be implemented. Economic stability is certainly important, but it is also social stability. These two must be together. If not seen, there will be no peace in a labour market or in an Icelandic society that will lead to an environment that will be of no benefit to anyone. The growth of tourism is widespread and requires further infrastructure as well as a dramatic impact on the housing market. Many apartments are rented for tourists instead of hosting families for housing problems. Both factors affect the economy, as well as the well - being of the country and the possibility of having a home. A review from Iceland's GDP has specifically spoken about the development and housing market, and I want to read what is stated in the review, with the permission of a president: THE U.S.A. misses not to discuss the challenges of housing because of the rise in real estate prices as well as the lack of housing in the capital area and in many parts of the country. The government should use the general housing system to deal with the housing problems of young people and low - paying professionals, who are facing the worst in these circumstances. In contrast with many of the measures taken by the government in the urban areas in recent years, which have contributed to the demand and prices of the land. A significant increase in the number of homes in general is a reasonable economy and an urgent welfare issue. ASI considers the need to make a minimum of 1,000 dressings per year for the next five years. I'd like to remind you of the United States Congress case on exactly this which is now waiting to be decommissioned on the welfare committee. The financial adviser has noted that the development of tourism can significantly affect the stability of the economy in the coming years. The result of the growth of the preceding article has been a higher success, a worsening of the competitive position of exporting and evaporating effects on the public. At the same time, it is not known whether or when a rising ordeal will begin to weaken the competitive status of tourism itself. Available risks may appear in the form of a sudden cessation or recession with the related effect on gangs, stability, and economic declines. This risk has to be weighed, but it is not done. It is not advisable in this position to provide tourism with the tax strengths the article has beyond other employment practices, and it is obvious that the urgent need for internalization is due to stress. Privacy bill 2017 includes tax grants for tourism in the form of a lower worth tax rate in over 20 billion dollars. The fact that one of the largest sectors enjoys such taxes while growth calls for Kingdom spending and is loudly complained about the lack of funds to build up the necessary wood to bear the growth of this article. The infrastructure, however, is necessary to receive more tourists and to increase the risk of investments in the article to the future. If left unchecked, the public will carry the cost of potential contractions in the article and cutdown in the welfare system as a result of recovery will be more difficult for those in need of their services. This is an amazing lack of confidence in the government's great issue. A financial adviser also points out that a narrow and inflexible financial rule may be causing unnecessary economic failures and that governments can enter the excitement of their economic policy if the situation turns out to be different from the economic forecast. It is, therefore, incomprehensible to the highest degree. The government and the majority of the legal committees have ignored financial counsel, and in no way did anything to give careful consideration to the reasoned financial adviser on the economic rhythm-corrected goals or flexible implementation of maintenance goals. The financial rule presented in Article 7. The law on government financial matters is controversial, and it did not promote unity in the Assembly Hall when the law was accepted. A discussion of it pointed out that if the government wanted to establish a financial law, the economic rhythm corrected aims of normal production are adjusted, but in the financial policy, the goals are set in comparison with the unmoved recovery. With the implementation of the target targets, it may be possible for the production of the pen to take on an increase in income gain, resulting in an increase in financial regulations that allows for an increase in public spending, which increases production capacity and makes things worse. In a similar way, inflexible financial rule can increase production and unemployment, and the inflexible rule of subsidies can also be damaging to society. I believe that it is necessary to act as soon as possible on public finance laws that are subject to financial regulations. The laws on public finances are very important, and it is very important that we apply them, and we develop practices that will keep and make better plans, set up stage arts, try to make good decisions for the future, and not fall into the same pit as the Icelandic government has been doing for years. And it's gonna end up with a little practicality. That's why I'd like to say again and again, a respectable president, that there's a surprise. The budget, the greater part, has responded in no way to the comments of a financial body that are serious, many of which, and could easily have been allowed to adjust and make it better to last.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u32	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before the talk, which was clear and informative, as it were in advance. I was going to ask you what. A senator to see if I was correct in saying that the committee had failed to respond in any way to financial counsel, but a last word. The senator was very clear in that regard. However, there is another question that I wondered about in terms of Article 10. a law on government finance that deals with what conditions to put on new financial policies. It's not just when you change your mind, not exactly, but something really needs to happen. Listening to that part of a word. A senator filled me with a little bit of fear that here we were putting ourselves in something that could not be changed. I thought that in view of this, it would be quite awful not to fail in any way in any of the indications given to the Commission from financial counsel and probable others. So I thought, " Does that not simply mean that it will not be followed? ' Now it seems that it has become foreign regarding public financial matters that they are clearly not going to bite as hard as we hoped when we set those laws. I was here for the last season of this law. Hence, the vast majority of people were delighted because the hope was that we could set some rules, some guidelines that would stand, and there would be some discipline. But discipline is no more than it seems that the government is just going to eat it off the table that it wants to eat. If she doesn't want strawberry jam, she's not gonna get a strawberry shower. She's gonna have something else. I wonder what. A senator did not like that concern, not about the strawberry jam, but rather because it will not be followed, rather than because it will lock us up.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u33	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. We must assume that we are at the highest. The government and the administrative body that supports the government planned to abide by law. We must assume that when we discuss the financial agenda and work with it to make it possible for five years, it can last. But it is obvious that a narrow sting is cut, and it is very accurate. The current budget is due in 2018 to 32,352 million. K. We'll have to keep it that way if we're going to make a fortune to produce a total of 2,670 billion. If more of the budget committee had, even if it was only that, follow the financial tip of setting up these goals for a space, perhaps from 1% to 2%, I'll mention something instead of saying it should be 1.4% of the gross domestic product we're about to produce. That's right. We've got some flexibility in things. Then we will not have to run and raise taxes or cut down in our welfare service to make it happen or to pay off debts more slowly. But that is what we must do to make it work. Unless there's an economic breakdown, we'll create a new direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u34	A respectable president. I am now one of those who sincerely hope that there will be no more economic collapse, although I believe that they are in a certain way inevitable in human society and human economic systems, unfortunately. That answer, which I really appreciate from what happened. A senator, however, scares me even more. That will be different from what we plan - the very nature of predicting the future in financial matters. Then I'm afraid we're going to have to cut or raise taxes either. Now it seems pretty obvious which side is going to want what in this government at least. However, I believe the conclusion will simply be that the government will ignore this. I'd like to agree with what. A senator that we have to assume that the government is going to follow this, but I feel that I have withdrawn so much of this discipline that this law was supposed to guarantee, which is why I am also concerned. It is not because we cannot change our policy afterward, at least not easily, but because I fear that there will be a continuing violation of the good ideal that the government law on public finances was to promote. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u35	Mr. President. When we got into writing the law on government finance, we were in economic ruin, the crash had gone down. We had experience with how such things treat the public in the country, how they treat the welfare services of the country. It was all fresh. We were experiencing this while trying to improve the laws on public finances in that direction and with the goal of guided by trying to prevent us from going back into such a dive. One of the lessons we needed to go through after the collapse of our economic situation is the government's laws on public finances. I hope, and I allow myself to trust that and believe in the highest. The government will respect and use the laws and use what is in them to prevent us from sailing on the coast, as we did in the fall of 2008. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u36	Mr. President. Thank you. Oddný SheHarðardóttir giving a talk to a couple of years ago. This is once so, in spite of exemplary wisdom and theoretical courtesy in the opinion of a financial body, no one has to be misled that financial counsel is very difficult to criticize. That's not a secret. Right away. In this regard, a senator will not fail to listen, since former financial ministers speak here. So I want to ask you why. In view of the criticism that cut deep in the opinion of a financial body, a senator would have felt that it was a natural, practical procedure. She criticizes the majority for taking little or nothing from that criticism. I'll admit she's not the only one who noticed, there were others. I can't hide that I was surprised to learn that in view of the criticism presented there and, in fact, that no more people would respond in any way than they did. [[The president calls.]] I'm very interested in what I hear. A senator expressed his feelings of normality in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u37	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. I have to say, first of all, I wouldn't have written a policy like this. If we had been allowed to move on after 2013, we would have used the rest, when we were getting out of the economic collapse and making ends meet, and kept some of our revenue methods inside to expand the infrastructure. I'll look at the 20131/2016/2017 years of the lost instruments. That was the year of the lost. Then we were supposed to build the wood. It's for what we're in the bad position that we're at the top of the economy and we have to go into the infrastructure. In this situation, the State should really hold hands, but we can't because the interiors are breaking free from us. We have to step in. So, what are we gonna do? Then we should make money to do that, not go on the rest, to do so. We'll go down at some point in the swing, and then we'll have to have a lot of energy to work on it or else we're doing what I think it looks like it's the highest. Governments are doing, using the welfare system to take the poles. It's a crazy economy. We're supposed to have learned from this a long time ago, even before collapse, but at least after a crash.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u38	Mr. President. My question may well have been about this matter now. Somehow, a man may have imagined that this council resolution of economicism was not entirely footed in stone, and it would be no myth, even though it was submitted to taking into account the basic principles that would have developed. Perhaps it was just as much a question in my mind. But even if so. I must make the personal confession that I did not regret in that government, but I am still interested in the senator's views of the procedure that could have been otherwise here. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I could have imagined an alternative treatment, but I've been brought up here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u39	Mr. President. Now I'm so surprised. A senator has not been very impressed with the government that was here in 2009 in 20042013 and has led us out of the financial breakdown. Of course, we had difficult assignments and challenges. About a question why. At that time, I would have taken the financial Council's comments seriously, and especially this with the precise readings of one decimal, even though it was just a matter of taking them apart. Then I would have issued the sentence marked with the Roman three because no one would understand what it is. What is set in the policy should be measurable, it is not measurable. Then I would immediately have worked to change the law on public finances and to take out the financial rules. If the government wants to establish a financial rule, it's fine, but it doesn't have to be legal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u40	A respectable president. It's a bit interesting to look at the financial policies that have been observed three times in a row, it doesn't matter how much of the numbers in total survival, and therefore about corpses, 0.2, and 0.1 don't sound like huge numbers. There is about 0.1 billion. I don't think it's unnatural to assume that even if it's expressed in one decimal, it doesn't have anything unusual in it. If it is to be met by 1.4, it would be 1.35-1.44 within the haploidential period. I think all classes could accept the financial policy that has about the figures set out, perhaps 0.2 higher or 0.2 lower things like that. However, the question of how to get it and what to do with these numbers is not very significant in these numbers. That's what's missing, and that's what we should talk about. The fiscal policy states that there should be increases, increases in health and education, the establishment of national funds, taxation, demographic changes, increase in income, collective contracts, and improving the status of younger generations in the housing market. There's such a huge contradiction in this, i.e. The reduction in taxes and increase in the health system, and there is an increase in income in this too, despite a decrease in taxation. It's such a contradiction, and I don't see how it works regardless of how the numbers are at the top of financial policy. They are matters of the least importance, the evidence is lacking, and the explanation for what to do. They don't match. I wonder what. A senator may have seen or may have seen something based on his experience, which makes it fit together. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u41	Mr. President. This can all work out if we sail calm waters, and economic growth continues to grow. However, there are many warning lights that blink, and all evidence indicates that we are going down the slope now. What I'm worried about in this financial policy is that almost nothing is said about two huge variables, which are tourism and housing. These are big and important issues for the economy. Now a lot of money has been invested in tourism. Travelers must be confident that this will be the site for infrastructure so that more tourists can be received. We know exactly what the roads are. We know the pressure on the police. We know what pressures are being put on the health - care unit all over the country because there is a growing number of tourists. And, of course, it has saved the economy. How, though, will we see to it that our future investments have been made? How will we do so? This does not happen by holding the spirit. There's gotta be something to do and deal with it. The same is true of the housing problem. He's got to be handled. It's so great that the market won't fix it like that. The government has to intervene. The government has to step in and increase the number of social apartments to meet the situation today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u42	A respectable president. I hadn't been thinking about it for a while. A senator pointed to, i.e. If economic growth is growing, all of this can be done. I hadn't even thought of it, because it's natural that there's no increase in the interest rate in the economy projections on which this project is built. It's the puzzle that was missing in the combination of increases in infrastructure, taxes, and all of that. This will work if economic growth is growing. But that is not the way the prophecy is foretold. I can't believe it was made up by the Ministry and the Government when it really isn't allowed from the figures it's based on. For those on the budget board, the financial council was very clear when they visited the committee and spoke inconspicuous terms. It wasn't exactly the original language you read in the poll. I'm not gonna keep those words, but they were very decisive. Is that a transparency, i.e. What should be done? [[The president calls.]] This doesn't match, the missing puzzle is that it'll work if economic growth grows.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u43	Mr. President. Just one simple thing that each person sees about what the government is going to do, to reduce taxes and extra expenses at the top of the economy, is an example that doesn't work out. You can do this, but it's going to end badly. I told the previous year that the big changes are out of place, tourism, and housing. But now we're expecting financial policy by April 1, if things are legal, and the policy of each Ministry will be reviewed. Then we will find out what the course is really going to be, and what will really matter in that regard. However, the national forecast under the agreement of the policy was determined by the plans of the previous government, and it is not surprising that a review of national interest during March did not change anything. [[The president calls.]] She didn't change anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u44	A respectable president. First, I want to express my special satisfaction in standing here and measuring for the Committee members more part of the administration and monitoring committee, hoping that we can handle this matter quickly and safely through the council both at 2nd and at 3rd. The committee's opinion is quite thorough, and it reviews the number of visitors to which the Board of Directors and Observers has been contacted. We won the case, even though I told it myself, quite well, and heard an opposing viewpoint, reviewing the pros and cons of the whole case, sending in 323 statements, receiving 23 reviews, and the conclusion of the greater part is the one I'm going to go over to this committee party. I'm even going to do what I don't usually do, i.e. to read almost all of the committee's opinions because it asks many of the questions that were raised by guests. Board of directors and surveillance committees are trying to respond. The bill suggests that the age of elections in rural elections will be at 16 instead of 18 years of age. The objective of the bill is to support the juvenile democracies and increase their opportunity to influence society as active and responsible participants. The committee discussed their meeting on the case, including In connection with the democracies of young people, the goal of the bill is to increase their opportunity to influence the community as active and responsible participants, as I mentioned. In this context, it is important to remember that campaign participation is learned behavior. In Iceland, at 16 years of age, school responsibilities believe that by reducing an election age for 16 years, schools have good opportunities to take the terms of elections for young men and women. The majority believe that when they arrive at the voter room, they will be fresh in memory of democracy and thus contribute to the social incentive for young people in elementary school to become more voters. As for this team, I would like to reiterate that those young people who are about to become voters immediately after high school, who are then 16 when each will be chosen, I think that they will be the most suitable candidates to make informed decisions. They are young people who have gone through this study in elementary schools and who have received the education of democracy. That is what we, many of us as older ones, may be able to review regularly. The committee discussed some of the rights and duties of children and the duties of parents of parents, but under legal laws, parents of the child's personal success, i.e. exercise their premeditation. This includes the obligation to make decisions about child training and the child's right to experience parental custody. Various rights and duties of children are based on age other than legal age, as well as on Article 5. The agreement on the child's rights shall be an ever - increasing measure of rights for the child based on age and development. You see, this is a bit of an important thing, and I know that in one of my committee sections, it's talking about the harmony of rights, but I'm reiterate to the 5th paragraph. The agreed agreement speaks of growing rights for children. Individual laws directly recommend a child's legal status below 18 years of age, e.g. Children employ their self - resources and gifts under legal law, the right to register in a religion is 16 years, the right to make a decision about abortion is based on 16 years, and the rights of patients are the right to make health care decisions for 16 years. In addition, 16 - year - olds have to pay income taxes from the income they earn. It has been believed at some point in history that the ones who pay taxes and who care for their duties will enjoy the rights to follow them. My historical education reminds me of one of the revolutions in the United States, which became the least of which was because the colony's representative was not comfortable paying taxes but did not get the obligations and participation in their decision-making. The majority believe that it is the right thing to give 16 - year - olds the right to vote, and then they need to follow the rules for voters and votes. A major factor is that in parent custody, the right parent is not to make a decision for the children as to what to choose or to help their children in an ideal place in the power of guardianship. The committee also discussed the changes the bill has to do with who are elected to local governments but under 1 mg. Section 3. a law of government elections is anyone who has a legal right to the community, has not been deprived of legal authority, and whose reputation is unscrupulous in the countryside. The majority of it feels right to say that a person who has been deprived of legal rights will only lose his rights during the removal. Legally, individuals will be self-control and resources at the age of 18 and thereby legal. If the bill remains unchanged in the law, 16 - year - olds will be elected in rural elections, even though they do not have money. The Committee established a view that terms should be preferred to legal age, including Because local representatives make decisions that have to do with the financial situation of a community and that are not natural enough for such decisions to arise. The majority agree with these views and suggest changes in the bill so that it will be only the vote at 16 years of age. In view of what I read here, they will continue their marriage at 18 years of age. The review also provided indications on Article 19. tion of election elections to local administrations, but it states that local representatives should be elected in secret general elections, either bound to percentage elections, as set out in the article's A team, or in unauthorized elections where elections are not limited to sources, but all voters are elected, except those who are legally under obligation to accept and have before the trial scored, as per the b-partment of this article. The majority of this section considers it necessary for voters under the age of 18 to be excluded from this directive and therefore suggests that instead of being elected, it will be only those who are elected. Then I will only have a few words about education, for it is important and perhaps more important than much else in this matter. We are giving a group of young people the right to vote, and this has been discussed considerably. I have heard that both members of a committee outside must follow a great deal of instruction, and that is certainly true. The committee's meetings also discussed the importance of taking good care of the instruction given to those who choose for the first time. For the Committee, the National Association of Young People stated the importance of having a part in the election after receiving the right to vote. The behavior of those in the first election can be a factor in whether people will accept the future election. The majority agree with these views, and in the context of this, it is important to look to the Norwegian experience, while efforts to lower the election age in Norway for 16 years were not well experienced and have been blamed for insufficient education. In this context, there is a need to point out the problem. Congress members should study the bill itself, since there are many examples in which an election age has been successfully reduced, although this is particularly a precautionary point. It has been noted in the Committee that education to new voters on the part of the government is not targeted and may be improved. Today, she takes the lead in high school, and especially with the needs of such projects as # I'm grateful. The majority also reminds us that more than 10% of youths in high school are not missing such education. New voters are not taught directly about democracy, such as, e.g. traffic education is done when children reach a certain age. In view of the importance of democratic participation, the Commission would like to encourage the government to consider more carefully democracies to those who gain the right to vote. This is especially true of those who do not have a language in English. If the bill is legalized, we'll gain a part of our last year's elementary school student's vote. The majority of these points to the minister of education and culture in particular as to how to conduct education for this group and to agree with the authority of the children there. As I mentioned earlier, there has been some discussion of the need to educate new voters and those who would be elected to this change and otherwise would not have. So I'm talking from my own chest sometimes feeling that we're making even more demands on that group, this nine thousand young people, who would be elected by this bill to the law than we do on new voters today. We are not particularly approaching new voters; they are not sent to their homes some educational material, not even letters being offered to them in a group of voters, with a website, or whatever it is that is offensive today in this age group. So I think, whatever the outcome of this bill, we did well, the government, and we here in the walls of this chamber, considering this only. This is especially true of those who do not have a native language. There is a great lack of instruction, so that no deeper is taken in the years. There has been a view that there is a short period of time to prepare the change for the next election. The majority agree with this, but it is noted that in May, there is also no evidence that the election age will be reduced for the district election. It is important to reiterate and stress it, as this is an important point. In other words, there is no basis for the process to be carried out so that election age will be reduced. We can do this, it's just that we're gonna do this really well, and we're gonna take a good look at the factors we've been tracking here, but we can do this. I believe we're supposed to show that we can handle taking this big step in order to increase democracies and not attach ourselves to things that could not possibly go well enough, but that we'll join hands and do this. The majority of the points are right, although to get the best of the case, it is important that the change be accepted as soon as possible. It will need immediate attention to the handling of educational and presentations for the voters who gain the right to vote by the bill. Many rural communities have established youth councils, and the Children's agent drew attention to the possibility that the change could affect their order. While there is no age limit for advice in youth law, the age group of 13◯17 is usually in line with that 18 - year - olds have a vote and may influence the choice of elected agents with their votes. The majority consider it necessary for rural communities to take sides to determine whether the rate of election should be limited to the seat of 16 years of age and older in juvenile councils. However, the adjustment proposed by the Committee to limit the success rate to the age of 18 does not change the juvenile juvenile status in terms of vote. Here is a commission for government and rural society to take their stand when it comes to a youth's organization. I believe that it may even be injected into the good work of the youth council. Sadly, not all societies have developed such a strategy and have to review how those orders could simply be truly beneficial, so that they would be accepted for that job. The majority suggest that the bill be agreed with the following modification: After 1st. If you have two new articles, as follows: a. Why? g.) Following the word "Karrill " in a rural government, any man having a vote in the local community is following. 2 gts and 1st Section 3. The law comes: it's a law. It is said in the clear and pleasant legal language that while 16 years of age receive the vote, the average is 18 years. And then: b. (See footnote.) g.) Instead of the words, all of us choose the people of the b- team 19. The law comes, the voters. This is what I took into account earlier that, where the local government is chosen, where everyone is running for office, is being held in this second article, i.e. b-indicator of the new proposal, to suggest that in the case of the conversion, only the terms of which have been elected. Under this signature, co-president, Helga Helgadóttir Velgadóttir, chairman of the Board of Directors and Control, Jón Þór Ólafsson, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson and Þórunn Egilsdóttir. We're all what we are. Senators. I've been talking about it in a pita today that I'm urging us to simply settle the matter this week, no matter what the way it is. Of course, I sincerely hope that we will prosper in taking the happiness of granting these 9,000 young men a vote. However, I reiterate my opinion that whatever the outcome may be, it is important that it be acquired now before the Council vacations next weekend. I suggest that the case be handled quickly and well at 3rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u45	V.E.G. President. The issue presented here is that it is not a predominantly critical matter. I believe there are many categories of opinions about that. I personally have doubts about this matter, but I have to say, of course, that there is no absolute or inexplicable evidence neither that at the age of 16, nor at the age of 18. Each result can be reasoned. However, I wondered about one thing that I feel is vague and that I pray. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttirsson Proppér to enter more closely in response to this counter-regument, i.e. how he envisions that lowering the election age can increase the democracies of young people. Of course, there's a growing number in the voter group. But if we look at each year, is there any reason to believe that the decline in the election age will have a greater impact on the general political or activities of young people in this relationship? I thought about it because I don't feel that there's a reasonable context between them. In recent years, we have seen that participation in elections has rather subsidized us, although more in rural elections than in election elections, and the least campaign is in the youngest age groups. I feel that there is a lack of a logical relationship between bringing down age and assuming that participation in such activities will in some way increase.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u46	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. It's a good thing to think about it. We may not only have the policy but also the implementation to which we can simply look to the experience. The Council of Europe agreed in 2011 that the election age should be reduced to 16 years, this would promote the participation of young people in the community. It did not come from the nothing; rather, it is a long and extensive discussion of scholars in this area that I encourage. A senator to study. The conclusion is no. 1826 if he's going to take a closer look at this. Then we too have an example. We have seen this in Scotland, where Scotland's national decree of Scotland's independence was held in 2014. There was an enormous amount of participation there, and especially in those age groups who would have been allowed to participate in the national pay only because of the observed changes, i.e. 16 to 18. Similarly, some in Austria began to reduce election age simply for 16 years in all elections in 2007. We have an example like this. I referred to earlier as an example in the bill itself, and I was amazed. A senator to find out. In fact, you usually do not participate in activities that are not influenced by you. [[The president calls.]] To encourage you to participate in something, you need to be influenced. [[The president calls.]] This is how this is related to our instruction.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u47	V.E.G. President. I have read the paper with the bill, and I have noticed that the examples of certain cases are of some sort, of course. A senator mentions. We can imagine that when an election age is down, it may be expected that election participation will be more effective in the course that is being received for the first time than the one that follows. I think that's how it usually is. But if I'm wrong about that, no doubt I'll be corrected in this discussion. I think there's more excitement amongst those who are having a vote for the first time, whether they are 16 or 18 years old, than those who have had it for some period of time. I allow me to doubt that the fall of the election age such as this will lead to an increase in the political involvement of young people. I don't think young people's political parties have in general increased anything, even though the voting rights have been reduced from 20 years to 18 years in their time, really nothing so long ago. I'll let me doubt it. I have no numbers about it or scientific research behind it. However, for this reduction there were other reasons why, among other things, people were increasingly viewed as 18 - year - olds as valid members of society. It may now be drawn at 18 years or 16 years or something, but I feel that this evidence is possible to support the promotion of political participation by young people in general by this reduction, but I would like to say that I believe that both positions can be drawn from the limit, whether 18 years or 16 years. [[The president calls.]] I'm just not sure that there is a fall in achieving the goals that the operators of the bill give themselves as the main reason for reducing their age. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u48	A respectable president. In itself, we can struggle. A senator wondered if there is a direct relationship. There will always be our theoretical speculation here. I've pointed out an example where we can just look at how we did it. That's a good thing often. [[Up front.]] - I specifically mentioned that it's in the committee's opinion. It didn't go well there. It is particularly noted that there had been insufficient training. We can name Malta. There was the participation of 16 and 17 - year - old voters in the county election in 2015 so good that there is now a loud debate about lowering the age in the election. Their experience is so good that they want to expand it. We can think about this. Hv. A senator mentioned when the last election age was changed, from 20 years to 18 years, that was in 1984. I guess we what. The members of Congress have not yet been approaching to share in the juvenile activities of those whom we belonged to, though they were. A senator still belongs to the same group. He can think back to whether he will not remember that the age group that suddenly got involved in elections, but would not have been able to do so for the change, had not been interested in it. Speaking of political juvenile movements, it may be noted that more often than the 16 - year age given, or even 15. [[Up front.]] Hv. A senator may well ask himself, " Do I not trust in the 16◯17 - year - old representatives he served at his national gathering this weekend to participate in the election? '
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u49	A respectable president. I recommend the Committee's 1st, smaller part of the management and monitoring committee on the bill to correct a change in the U.S. election law to the government. A smaller section supports the bill materially but considers it too short the time until the election to be elected to the 2018 rural administrations to make a change in election law highly and sufficiently acceptable to such a change. A smaller portion therefore suggests a change in the time of the bill. That's what I'm saying. I'm going to review the text of the committee opinion. 1st smaller things add a lot to the opinion of the greater part, there's a lot of good that supports the belief that the election age will be reduced to rural control from 18 years to 16 years. Change in election law is essential to prepare well, especially for such a fundamental change, such as a decline in the election age suggested in the bill. Part 1 is a positive factor in increasing the social rights of children. However, to the committee it was found that such a change would have to be done well, including a good one. where there would be a presentation for students in elementary schools, high schools, and those who do not attend when elections are held. Part 1 is less important than promoting democratic participation in children, but it is necessary that there is a careful introduction to elections and that they succeed. A smaller portion of 1st feels that there is not enough time to start a careful covering project when there is only two months to the election. For the Committee, visitors and counselors had a view that it would be better if the change went into effect there for the next district election, where it would have plenty of time for preparation. A smaller portion agrees with this and believes that the review of textbooks and educational material on democracy and politics will need to be performed to assess the need for change. The first step would be to evaluate and then make adjustments if necessary. Clearly, this requires more time than two months. It is then important that there be a review of how and in what way it is permitted to direct information from political parties to the group of 16◯18 years of age, especially within the walls of the school. There are clear rules to make it clear to those serving at school, parents, and students how such political parties are conducted. It has been noted that despite the loyalty of democratic training and education in schools, progressive instruction to new voters on the part of the government is important. It may be lucky that such education is a cooperation project by governments and partners, with projects such as # Igle and kids' elections, but it is important to make sure that education reaches all new voters at one time. Still, those who choose for the first time in rural governments between 16 and 19 years of age and those who prefer for the first time at the Council of 18 in 18 in 2001 will be at the age of 21; thus, it is a challenge to reach a total of the number of publicity projects. It may have to be done in more than one field to encourage democratic participation. Then the European Security and Cooperation Agency, who are monitoring the implementation of national elections, has generally warned against re-election in a short term before elections. A smaller portion agrees with such views and thinks that the change will not be meaningful until the next district election. The Committee reviewed the need to investigate long - term democracies and the impact of the change in democracies. Research is one of the factors that make it important for time to plan for such important changes. It is important that the Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with the European Union, lead to the development of the Agency's work. At the same time, it is preferable to improve research on ways to improve democratic participation in general. Of course, this project may be carried out under the Icelandic election study, but it is very important to consider whether to add some factors or to make some adjustments to get enough information about the effect of the changes. The first smaller section agrees with the opinion that more than one factor is clearly defined, that it should be adopted as a legal age and supports the changes made in the majority of the segments. The first part of my memory is that if necessary, the Ministry of Justice will be committed to reviewing the changing legislation and suggesting that further adjustments be made. The committee did not have a view that further adjustment would be required, but it is important that time should be carefully considered. It is also essential that the review of educational and educational material on democracy and politics be made. There is also a need for the Ministry of Education and Culture to consider teaching to teachers for this reason, for it is often what is lacking when the curriculum is changed. All of this said there was a 1st smaller section that the bill would be approved with a validation date on January 1, 2019. Of course, it is my motivation to support this adjustment proposal and to pay for the quick payment of the bill. Whatever the outcome may be, I believe that all the tips presented in this committee party are very important in the continuation of employment in the implementation of campaign legislation and introductions and the development of campaign behaviors. Whether this is a time or not of change in the election law, I believe that it is very important to have a thorough evaluation and an opinion of how to encourage a more general democratic participation than at present, when a vote, and particularly in the younger age groups, has been adjourned. I specifically stopped at the point in the opinion of the greater part of a careful presentation to those who do not have any native language, but I really doubt that it is where the need is. I think it's more important that when an importer receives a vote, whether it is for the county election, for the General election or for other elections, he will be notified there in some way, simply made aware that he is having a vote. I've applied myself to it over the years that people are often in a bit of trouble with finding them themselves and perhaps not thinking about the possibility. Perhaps this could also be done differently from a letter directly to the voters, perhaps with a better introduction on how the group is set up to be elected after moving to the country. But I don't think the group is necessarily the person with the most difficulty in understanding Icelandic, because it's the people who have been here for a few years. Then this tour will be over. I wanted to come on one more point in which, as far as I'm expected, no group of members knows the better service of a rural group than the one age group who's finishing elementary school, this 16◯18 year-old group who have enjoyed the community service through the nursery and elementary school from birth. I got it. I got it. Councilmen to handle the matter quickly and, of course, take a good look at the viewpoints presented in Committee 1st, but under this publication, Linika Anna Sævarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u50	A respectable president. I appreciate the story. It's a pleasure to see that we do what we do. A senator argues that it is a step in lowering election age, although we are not exactly on the same page with when it should take effect, but there is a space that I hope we can bridge soon. I'd like to ask for one point at the Council's Committee of Staff, which is this general alert to the European Security and Cooperation Centre on the change of election law so shortly before the election. These are things I know of from one source, and unfortunately, this was a very quick spot on another of the best reports of the Union's society because it wasn't supported by any authority. I cleaned up and read through the reports the Agency has made on the basis of the General election here in 2009, 2013, 2016 and 2017. I wondered what this would be like because in these reports, the changes that were made in the U.S. election law would be a month before election. That was done last year, it was done 2016, and it was done two months before election 2009 without comment. These changes were reviewed in the SE reports, and they did not comment on this because these changes were also appealing to voters, they were designed to help people participate in democracy. The same is true with the change that has started, lowering the election age to 16 years. So I'm going to let myself question the fact that AsSE would blow my fingers into such a change. But above all, I would like to hear from the senator: What is the basis of this rather than an irrational statement in one review?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u51	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. At this point, I simply refer to the controversial review of the European Union's members, but will, of course, go to it before the 3rd. To dig deeper and find the source. I believe that the changes presented here are far more aggressive, far more extensive, system-changing than any other change referred to by the senator and that it simply needs longer planning.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u52	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. I'd like to pick up a thread from the senator's committee party, which is about how short it is. Today, it is two months for the county election. On September 15 of the last year, the election was announced to members of Congress, which was held on October 28, the same year. It was one month. Somehow, though, they still got a pretty decent vote. It was time to plan # I guess. Interpretations were distributed, and everything was done by the law. An election was achieved, leaving zero to 100 in one month. Here we are talking about a change in the implementation of the election that is extremely simple. It's about response rates, national records and election governments, adding two years to their Excel documents. Then, of course, we need to take action to ensure our instruction and to make sure of all of that. For this matter, I'd like to ask the senator if she agrees with what is said in the opinion of the greater part of the Commission and the surveillance committee that says that all those who came before the committee said that there is no basis for doing all this at the time of the occasion - that the Children's Subcommittee, the people who say # Irkys, the ideals, the Nationals, all the people who are responsible for the political details in these elections, were counting on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u53	A respectable president. I'll thank the senator later. I don't agree with what's said in the opinion of a greater part of the administration and monitoring committee that there were no barriers or barriers. One of the meetings where this case was being discussed, I did not sit and, therefore, can't be sure of everything that was presented there. But there were also reviews that encouraged the bill to be approved but only after one or two years. When I listened to visitors, it just struck me that it would not be wise to do so. At that time, I was listening to visitors who, though, support the matter materially, as I do. I'm not worried about a national file. Or because we can't print some ballots or have Excel documents ready. What I'm worried about is that respect for this voter group, 16 to 18 years of age, is given a careful presentation, that it is well handled with the demonstration how political parties point to his introductions, that an opportunity has been made for school and academic authorities to respond to what is actually suggested, and to argue that they have to do, to improve democratic education and education. It's one of the main reasons I'm here that we're often throwing things at the schools, we expect schools to have more and less of their entire work planned in the future, but then they're going to react to something that we can think of here at General One, Two and Three. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u54	A respectable president. I thank the senator very much for her excellent speech. I think there may be some reasons why we keep the deadline longer, and some of the evidence is better than others. For example, I thought that the senator did not contribute sufficiently to what I believe to be the better argument and overemphasize the person I consider to be inferior. I'll only go through it. There is good evidence that when changes in election law are so close to the fact that election is being carried out, some senators might be tempted to vote for whether or not they thought it was their party. This, of course, is very unfortunate, and there are arguments. In fact, I don't think that the evidence is the important thing that they're going to determine my position on these matters, it's different from the fact that I was a messenger of a similar case here before. The other evidence that had it. A senator made quite a difference is the educational and research practices. I understand how comfortable we are when we can't allow anyone to choose a box unless we really educate him. In fact, most of us were given their vote without any special instruction on what was needed. The question is, How would we measure the results? Suppose after a good and detailed education, 50% of the voters in Reykjavík, e.g. I'm choosing a restoration, my pack. Would this be an indication that the education had been successful? Or would it be evidence that she had succeeded badly? The conclusion is that people have this right and that they use it. Perhaps many of us don't use him as professionally as we would like them to choose those who now get a possible vote for the first time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u55	A respectable president. Thank you. The enemy's answer, of course, is well pleased by any argument that supports this view. I can totally agree that they differ, perhaps misdirected, from the point of view that we look at. For the educational evidence, I am primarily witnessing with the bill that makes a considerable amount of school work. So it is usually appropriate for schools to have a special role in pre-election education. Schools are designed to train minors in democratic participation, which is much different and is part of the school ministry. That's why I come into my opinion that perhaps it's better that the education specifically directed at elections will go through special projects like # Ices. That's when I want to point the ball back to what I want to do. Senator. I was wondering how to attract immigrants'attention when they're on a budget. And because I know what to do. A senator has taken care of matters that interest immigrants, and I would like to ask him if he had wondered whether we should take special note of this in the general case of democratic participation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u56	A respectable president. I feel that way, like so many other people in my life. First, I want to say that in general, I think the way to promote the involvement of young people or others is to allow political parties to do things. I think they're the best stakeholders to attract people to an ideal place, not the schools with neutral instruction. In a competitive environment, the consumption is often increased. I think it's also necessary to speak politics a little. The message young people receive is: politics are ugly, corrupt, wicked, and disgusting, but remember to use your vote. It's a message that doesn't match very well in my opinion. I'd like to ask you what. A senator because she was referring here to the affairs of immigrants. My opinion on this is, in fact, as in the second, that responsibility is primarily the classes. It would be better for groups to have a clearer perspective on who have the right to vote, and the simplest way is simply to provide a much larger group of that election rights, e.g. the entire population of Reykjavík, whether or not they were here a short or long time. It may surprise us, if we've approved this bill, that an involuntary high school student might have something to say about how close his surroundings are but an adult, a foreigner who doesn't have a citizen's right to pay taxes and who's lived here for years has not been exactly right. I would like to know if the senator wondered about this and if we could support the means that would at least contribute to the expansion of foreign citizens.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u57	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's speculations are of interest. For the educational work, we may have reached the very heart of the matter. Democratic training, sharing in social activities, is something the schools should do. Then we'd be creating another stage for the conversation between political parties and young people, because I'm absolutely sure you'll learn about politics through political contact; I'll share that opinion with you. Senator. There is too much anxiety about giving children and young people the opportunity to reason on politics. I know a number of examples that have since become very active in various social activities. Regarding the participation of immigrants, if I recall correctly, the election is elected after having had a five-year legal home in the country. I know an example of how the bid has translated a lot of material into Polish or other languages, but then I found that all immigrants who were registered had long since spoken very fine Icelandic. But I haven't thought about it that much about who and when immigrants should get a vote, but I think that there's good reason for that in the community we live in revising it. We have examples of small rural areas in the region where 20 to 30% of the population are immigrants. It's very special if so much of it doesn't have the right to participate in the county election.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u58	V.E.G. President. The first thing I want to say is that it's about what's in it. The management and monitoring committee on this matter has, in my opinion, been exemplary, and members of the Committee have crystalred much of the best we've experienced here at the council, i.e. that we consider matters that we do not agree on, that we analyze them, that we respect one another's opinions, and that we respect that we disagree, and that we may come to the best conclusion on the subject. As a result, I'm going to introduce a second opinion on this fine subject. So it is that in the work of the administration and monitoring committee on this process, there was a meeting with a large number of people, young people who had strong opinions like young people generally do. I don't think that young people today are less interested in politics or in politics than in the past. On the contrary, I feel that today's youngest generation is far more interested and has studied matters far more than perhaps the two generations mentioned earlier. The other is so different from us, because it's our job in itself and our role, beyond trying to make society useful, to make this work attractive, to show people that they are involved in politics, I don't talk about making them a job, it's not like getting dirty in the knees all day long, without making it small. It's not like that. We simply need to help people and especially young people to see that involvement in political activities is desirable and not merely desirable, that is, a fall for people to have an influence. That is what we need to communicate with young people at any given time. We Icelanders stick to making big decisions with shame. This is an example of this. This is where we're making a major change to the campaign to the county and we're going to legalize this 60 days before the next election. I have to agree with the Children's agent who came to the Committee with many others, but she said that it was her opinion that it would be more useful to give this case space that the value of the value would be so that the next county election would take that value. Therefore, 2nd memory contributes to the continuation of the bill value until 2020. That date is not just taken from the air or into the blue. A reminder of a minimum will take time to plan how education will be introduced to the young people whom we want to meet at our next elections or in this case where the next election will take place. Not only that, but the 2nd smaller part thinks the school authorities also need time to plan and set rules on how political agents can approach their candidates, such as. In college, understand. In fact, a group of young people called on the committee that complained that they were receiving a little presentation in Polish over their heads, but at the same time, they did not have any knowledge of the presence of politicians at school. It's a little tricky. Then I say again: In order to communicate, we can call it anything, message, propaganda, I want to say first and foremost encouragement to encourage young people to participate in politics, we simply need to get to the scene where everyone is happy with, i.e. The students themselves or young ones, teachers, school authorities, and families of these young ones. In fact, all too rarely have I personally had the opportunity to go to school to talk to young people about politics, but the time they have happened is by the more enjoyable I have done in this work because these young people are so well aware of what is happening. Happily, because these young people care about their own environment, you have been given a sharp and persistent question, and they care about the society in which they live. That's exactly what we want. However, there's another arm, and maybe number two, so those politicians who show up at the scene like that. At school to talk to young people, they should adjust to a group of political intimidations and go over the politics as a subject, about people's feelings for the community in which they live. I believe that is the basis for an increased interest that may result in a better election participation. But this will not be done in 60 days. I have no sympathy for the Hagroom, so they say, I know that there's just one bar to go and push the enter, and the case's solved. I have also little sympathy for voters that way, although their work would probably be greater and worse if it was decided to do so at 60 days' notice. But my mind on this matter is right, should we tell the victims? That's too much to say, but my mind is with the young people we want to get close to and want to participate in elections and political jobs. I think it's rather quick to plan on doing so in 60 days. The transferer of the greater part in his fine talk he gave earlier said: "Let's do it quickly, and let's do it well. But we do not do this well by having 60 days to present to young people something that might be sufficient to encourage them to come to their votes and to use their voting rights. I don't think it's polite. We must also realize that it is in itself no matter when we start this journey, because our first attack is not just talking to people in their 16 years of age, we are talking to the group who did not have a vote in the last election, and it is much bigger than this age group, who said that people who were not over 18 years of age at the last election. I simply think that when we're starting some sort of trip like this, we need to be careful, take the time we need, because I'm afraid that if we go up to our hands like if we start 60 days before elections, if we've dropped an election age by two years, and we're going to have these fine teenagers only 60 days to shape our position and meet at the vote, I don't think it't seem fair to say. I don't think it's a lot of respect for us, the Lawgiver, for these young people. Now I say again: The young people I have met in this political expedition have been very interested and well - meaning, much better than we old ones who may think. In that respect, I feel that we should show these young people the respect that they will receive the proper time and proper training and a proper presentation of the issues of politics. To say this, I also believe that the school authorities, as I said earlier, need time to prepare for their presentation of politics to young people. In many cases, you have the impression, perhaps false, I don't know, that the presentation of social matters at school may be more dependent on individual teachers, their interest and their activities, but so much as the fact that the school authorities left behind had some clear policy for these people to work behind. Of course, you admire the people who do so in their work that they are motivated and interested in what they are doing. That I once again want to know that the 60 - day period is too short. Thus, 2nd smaller items suggest that the existing bill will be adopted by the change, as stated in the paragraph 2 above. Saying, "This Law will have effect on January 1, 2020. " After all the fine discussion at the Committee where there is a difference, even within groups, we talk about the conclusions and other things in a spirit of modesty, showing that the wisest conclusion is the one in his committee party during this discussion, and that the members of the body encourage them to agree with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u59	Madam President. I hereby recommend the members of Committee 3 my section of the administration and monitoring committee on the bill to correct the changes to the U.S. election legislation. It's a spell. 550, so everybody's in on the notes. Of course, the election is an unbreakable part of democracy, and that's why we believe that the Buddies in my third section are my partners. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson's son and the man standing, that any change of election law must be prepared diligently and with good reason. Because of this 3rd memory item does not support the available bill, but there are other things, of course. There are reasons why we also do not agree with the changes made on 1st smaller things and 2 smaller things suggest, even if the space was crossed there and the law would gain the value of 1st July 2018, which is the difference between the change options of 1 and 2 smaller things if I get it correctly, on January 1, 2020, and on January 1, 2019. Other aspects of 1 and 2 are less in harmony. According to this, there are many reasons for us to decide to turn an election age down to 16 years. But it is odd that we should not take the step to the full and cohesive election age with all elections, i.e. that it is agreed that men will be elected to the local government, to general elections, to elections for elections, and to general national pay when they are 16 years of age. In my third, we think it's important. Therefore, we suggest that the committee be organized, and the Council is preconceived under the highest leadership. To prepare new legislation, the only cohesive legislation is the value of all elections, district elections, elections, total elections, and national law, a consistent law that includes. has taken the step of lowering the election age to 16 years, but more is needed. We also need to make a decision about the nature of the situation, according to a 16 - year period of independence. In fact, I think that's wise and there's more evidence than we would object to the fact that all civil rights are meant to be 16 years. That's what we're supposed to be headed for. We should have the courage and courage to discuss matters that way. We don't do that in time pressure. That's not what we do when we're in the election for a few weeks. We do this out of careful consideration, and I'm convinced that the goal is right and sensible, that all civil rights, elections, autonomy, capital gains, etc., we make 16 years. It also matters to me that when we make changes, even though it's not that it's a matter of lowering the election age to the state but not a vote -- which I forgot to talk about earlier, because it's important that you get a voter when you get the right to vote that you're not expected in this bill and, of course, you have to follow along -- that's a lot of important things, but I think it's important that we try preparation, that we're quite ready that we're doing the right things and it's all well prepared, that it's not going wrong in the election because of the changes that we're all going to agree. Most of the people here seem to at least They agree that it is the wise thing to plan for a fall in election age. I hope we can achieve a larger solidarity on the changes in election law in the months to come and about one total law. I think it's very important that we meet up with one another. Then, of course, it is proper to listen to warnings that have come along or include warnings. in the reviews received to the management and monitoring committee. I'll call attention to something like that. The town council's review, as it encourages the General to give careful consideration to the subject before the bill succeeds. It is also worth calling special attention to the authority of children, whom I intend to give a witness, by permission of the president, which, in fact, says the U.S.A.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: Since 16 to 18 years of age, individuals are children and therefore are under custody of parents or other guardians. It is important that the lawgiver assess whether a guardian in some way could affect the child's election rights under the present circumstances, for example, the access to information for elections. This includes the shipment of target mail, the access of political parties to schools or students, for example, basic schools, but the decline of election age will lead to the establishment of a section of the 10th grade. It is important to ensure that, in some way, parents cannot influence the right to vote, the right to vote will be reduced. Of course, it claims to itself that the Holy Court, the right to vote, must harmonize with the fact that you are an individual. I understand the objective of the bill, but I don't understand why the operators in the bill didn't think it necessary at least. lower the age of self - control, and that our best rate is also the same. It is worth noting, too, that the comments of the European Union's member countries, which merely agree with what I said earlier, suggest that it was the relationship's position that legislation on the elections for the Generals and the local government should be as consistent as possible, but we are not. We're kind of tearing it apart. For this reason, although only for this reason, the European Union is concerned with the option to make the changes we will discuss here. When the European Union warns against doing this in this way, when it's only talking about changing the local government law, I think a world should listen. I think a Senate should listen to a child's emissary. I think a body of Congress should also listen to the various town councils and communities that have sent in envelopes. Of course, it doesn't change my mind and most people here think it's wise to make changes in that direction, but we need to harmonize things, we need to have a whole-scale law on the whole of the election. I think we're supposed to come to an agreement on re-election of campaign legislation, or rather, we're supposed to get together on putting one complete vote, and we're gonna take it from here to here. The right to vote and then make other necessary adjustments. I'm going to point out that according to my information, in Iceland there was a age of self-destruction between the Grey Sea and up until the age of automation was increased to 18 years 1997 or approximately, if I remember correctly, 16 years ago. So let's just go back to the Grey Eyes and set off the election rights, the Age of Independence, all the civil rights to the Grey Eyes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u60	A respectable president. I would take it from the words "Uzekiel " and" self - willed " in my own words. I'd like to ask you what. A senator would say that the six - year - old right to instruction should also be 16, that the 12 - year term of adoption is also adopted to 16, that a 12 - year - old agreement for a change in name is also made in 16. Are all of this really compatible and comfortable? There are a variety of rights we obtain from the age of six with the right education, so I don't think that all rights will come in exactly the same year, where everything will change at one birthday. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he agrees with his own opinion, that six years of age is not entitled to instruction until 16.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u61	Madam President. I have to pray. A senator trying to show me a little understanding. I couldn't quite get the inquiry, it might have been that I misunderstood it, but he'll help me after. It is true that getting, for example, is part of our maturity. longer curfews, they vary according to age, and they're very normal, that's part of the development process. But we're talking about the vote, and I say: If we agree that people should be elected at 16 years of age, they must be willing to say, "It's totally unnatural that a person who can participate in elections, choose at the General Assembly, or choose to be a member of the country government, is not an option. In my mind, it's a contradiction, one of the essentials for you to take advantage of the voting rights is that you are self-imposed, dependent on no one, and that there is over all doubt that the individual is an individual who walks into the ballot and votes for himself, making his own decision. - Yes, sir. Independence.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u62	A respectable president. No, I don't think that's necessary. We obtain these rights, and we really have these rights to speak out and to consider ourselves gradually based on age and development. It is not unusual for us to have the other one and this right condition before we become self - definition, where the definition of a child is up to 18 years old, in comparison with the children's covenant. Should we, then, change that definition as well as ourselves? Does a child stop being a child at 16 years of age? What about 15 years of age when a child is acquiesced, we need not turn it into 16 others? Does it have any side effects from a court case, etc.? In fact, I don't see any problem with how our rights work year after year, static and constant, as we appreciate professionally, e.g. with connection to age and development in general, and with the independent period of self - control, we obtain rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u63	Madam President. I can see why. A senator says and makes no comments about it. Our viewpoints are just different. Well, at least I hope that's the case. A senator can at least it's wise that we take this discussion, take this change, in good advance, prepare it, and coordinate the election, create one complete vote, where the vote is 16 years in all the elections we can afford to vote for, to the local administrations, to the Generals, in the elections and the votes. How about a ball game, huh? Senator? Isn't it normal for someone who can choose a representative meeting at the Council or in the county government that a vote is also part of the rights, that he himself can... isn't that normal? [[Up front.]] It's very strange, yes, it's just one of the fingers in the law code. [[The president calls.]] Of course, we're supposed to bring a ballot age down to the President for 16 years. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u64	A respectable president. I'm thanking the third-minder for his discussion on the subject. I can agree in many ways that it would be a reason to revise the legislation, but I don't understand why it would be necessary to change all civil rights while changing the terms of the election. If we don't get there, maybe. in opposition to the children's covenant that assumes that children are still 18 years old? That is the standard of the children's covenant. However, in the spirit of the children's covenant, it is the same way to give children their rights gradually, step by step. My third section thinks it's important that there's an overall agreement in the campaign law. There are also things that are not the same, e.g. In terms of the election of emigrants for district elections and total elections. Is that, then, one of the things that should harmonize with all elections, and in what way? Is there anything else that the senator has in mind regarding an overall review?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u65	Madam President. I realize we what we're doing. A senator, my companion and friend Brumes Níelsson's son, go further, but most likely a great many in this council hall are ready to do so. I also realize that this sort of opinion comes up with a fall in self-control age, including That's what I'm talking about. A senator is wondering here, i.e. how this harmonizes with the United Nations Children's Covenant, etc. There are other viewpoints to consider. Of course, I'm willing to go through that discussion, but let's just say, " Let's give ourselves the time we need, and let's get along with each other in a broad way as to what we're going to do and what we're going to do. ' I'm available on that discussion at any time, and I know that in the Senate Hall there are people who are well - versed and who can guide me better than many others. In terms of other agreements, immigrants are one matter, and when and how to obtain the right to vote. It may be quite simple for me to say that I feel that once people have lived here, and it is clear that there is a permanent basis for receiving the same rights that we, who were so lucky to be born in Iceland. I know this is a simple answer to a complicated question, but sometimes it's good to have a prince in it. [[The president calls.]] I don't know how to answer. A senator better.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u66	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason answers, and he is in himself very pleased that we agree that there is a need for careful action when changing election laws. There may be more to consider, but there is actually time to follow these changes. As indicated by my committee study, a decrease in 1st share, it is noted that the Ministry of Justice needed to review whether somewhere was a disorder along with a change, such as the one suggested here. Regarding another question, I was just wondering if there are other factors that have not been related to this change in election law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u67	Thank you so much for the answer. The short answer is: Of course, there are other factors that must be kept in mind and that may not be related to the law. I'm going to give you political parties that are not bound to a reexamination of the election law but are one of the projects that I think we need to go on and achieve some decent solidarity. I think, for example. that, also, in the context of our discussion of the duties and roles of the Kingdom News on these topics, in what way we believe the Kingdom News is most important to provide the right information, fair, impartial, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u68	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason for the talk on this committee opinion. I spoke up in reply when it came to the matter. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson moved this bill before Christmas. Then I declared my interest in observing the case, how it would wind up in the council and on a committee. I recalled my experiences with Polish when I was a teenager. Then I've been discussing this with teachers and sociologists and those more with teenagers and asking what's the difference between a 16 - year - old and an 18 - year - old. Most people say: There is just not so much difference between 16 years of age and 18 years of age. They've become quite independent in their minds. I have to agree with that. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason and the members of the committee's opinion, why. The members of the Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir and Þörstein Sæmundsson, that this is a very short time. Someone said we had to realize that it was something that would happen. It was like when you were discussing using your phone at the time, it's about time. I just want to ask the senator about his age and the coordination of that, like the driving. paritaprevir The Lingik Anna Sævarsdóttir introduced with the United Nations Children's Convention: Is it something that's internationally accepted, self-sustained, or can we change that in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u69	Madam President. I agree with what. A senator says the time is short. I say, when men make these changes in election law, let them be absolutely sure that this change is going to be done in an unconcerned way in elections. I'm not sure it would be. I don't know. I don't have the assurance based on information from the Ministry of Justice and from the European Union. I'm concerned that this could lead to the election for the government in May. If we face difficult situations and problems that we should not have to deal with, we will be able to cope with them. But I also say: When we're making these changes, I hope that I'm not the only one in this room to stress that the changes being made in this direction have vast support in the council, that they're not in the league, that we can stand, and most of us, behind these changes. I hope indeed, and I think I know that, to the why. A senator would agree with me in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u70	V.E.G. President. Yes, I can totally say that there is a need for effort because we don't want to get into trouble if these changes are taken into place right now. I want to know - because of it. A senator referred to Greygás and said that at the age of 16, he was a dictator - that if we changed the law back to that time, women would probably lose their rights to vote. We don't want to. [[Exploited in "Secretary Age. "]] - Yes, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. But if we moved the law back in the same direction as they were then, women wouldn't have a right to vote. In this regard, we need to be careful to step to the earth.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u71	That was a valid tip from the dog. A senator and I hope that no one understood me that way, because it wouldn't be just women who would lose their rights, that would be most men too. I think we're gonna do what. A senator would be at least among them, I don't know about anyone else in the audience. My attention was filled with an essay in law at the University of Akureyri, by Margrét Lilja Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, who was written under the guidance of Ágúst Þór's Árnason. This was a 2011 essay that made me think about it. I'll hang around for a second. It says that there are seem to be many indications that when the child was raised to 18 years, his prowess have not always been put first. In fact, this may have caused quite a few people in the age range of 16◯18 years to become seriously uncomfortable. [[The president calls.]] This, of course, is one thing we must think about. I'm going to read this paper with great pleasure. [[The president calls.]] Excuse me, Madam President, I passed the clock.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u72	Madam President. I'm one of the majority of the administration and monitoring committees in this particular case of a change in the U.S. elections for elections in terms of election age. I agree with what has been said here today that the discussion on the committee was best at all, that we had a great deal of joy, both among the members of the committee, as well as for the visitors who came before the committee. What interests me about the support of this bill - and that's why I thought of the greater part - is the fact that by far the largest part of their narratives and those before the committees were encouraged to make a change here at the council. Before the discussion of the committee, I was positive for these changes, this fall in election age, but I was excited to hear an opinion of stakeholders. I thought it was the right thing, like the right thing. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir and what? paritaprevir Sæmundsson, the fact that the time may have been too short to make such changes, that 16 - year - old children might not be sufficiently prepared and the system may have been unable to cope with this now. So it turned out that when I was a member of the Committee and when I visited, I had a mind about this time limit, because it seems that the client doesn't think it's outside the possible Union of Icelandic rural society, but I'm more of a part of their opinion below. As for the democracy point in this, it is important that, for any member of the community, to be actively involved in the society in which you live in line with development. It has been pointed out, and it points out in the opinion of the greater part, that when young people are 18 years old, their interest in elections may be due to their failure to participate in elections until at first. Then there may be a situation where you are allowed to participate in your first election at 21 years of age, simply because of the time of election. But that hasn't been the problem in the past, since the country has been the most popular place in the world. Yet, there is the situation where the first time a person is allowed to enter the ballroom, he has become so angry. It is not very encouraging to refrain from sharing in the legal society that you are legally participating in since your own age and perhaps even before. Regarding preparation, because it's mostly what's being thrust out, at least in the 1st and 2st minority sections, it's this about the education: how to educate the 16 - year - olds and receive the right of this election? It was there that I especially stopped visiting the Committee because the instruction we give to young people today, who are 18 years old and who are required to vote for the first time, is just very little. This education is done by the government solely on the web of elections. It's just that way. There is no mail delivery home from the government, no reminder that you are now elected. There is no such thing as going on and being members of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Education in question. The only thing that happens is this self-destruction. REVIEW has something, but it's for a much younger group. Shadow elections in high school take place, and college kids from 15 years of age to 20 years of age, so there is no basis for this. The democracies will take place in elementary schools, if any. It is, for example, that children come here to the General Assembly to spend a few hours in their basic school career, then in grade 9 or 10, and not even all children in the country, only children from some schools. That's the whole presentation. This will make no difference whether it is a 16 - year - old or an 18 - year - old. On the other hand, I take my heart to see the importance of increasing my education considerably. I would like to be a success in this, but, unfortunately, such instruction is not taking place today. Of course, we should, from there, see if this will be approved or not, regardless of this, take us together. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson here spoke of the pleasure of going to high school and high school and meeting with the young because they are very aware of everything that is happening. I agree with that. Senator. Young people today are more aware of their community, closer to society and what is happening in the world, but me and my peers were the same age. They are much more open - minded, far more conscious of all community involvement. I wondered, " Shouldn't it be just looking at it? ' This was also shown in the question of why. paritaprevir Sourstein Sæmundsson of Sæmund said that the introduction in the schools was, in fact, up to each teacher. I'll agree with that. It's part of the problem. I've watched four children go through elementary school, and it's a total enthusiast of their teaching about their future democratic rights. It seems to depend on each teacher's interest. We have school responsibilities in Iceland out of high school. There, we can clearly have a measure of effect. But school responsibilities end at 16 years of age. Hence, there is actually a greater chance for us to have an effect there. For education, I also want us to think of the group that gains the right to vote in Iceland at the local election now and that's where I'm talking about foreign citizens who live here. These foreign citizens have the right to vote in Iceland, but no one can think of informing them about it. This was made clear in the case of a representative of the Ministry of Justice who appeared before the committee. We are simply not informing the inhabitants of this land of their democratic rights. If we are going to postpone this matter or refuse to settle it, we may not have enough education or enough education to do so, so that is true of many more. This is just the same with the person who is 18 years old and older and all the foreign citizens living here. There is an independent problem that we need to face. However, in terms of introductions, how the political parties go about introducing their goals, the political parties themselves take care of sending information articles to new voters. Then they just have to keep doing it. I trust they will continue to assault young people with all kinds of equipment, as has happened. For the entire election, October 28th, it was. even more young children than those they had the opportunity to enter the election were attacked into all kinds of electronic games, social media, and YouTube, and I don't know what and what about all kinds of propaganda. There's another discussion. Only in the opinion of the European Union, which puts a lot of warning on this, and the U.S. Army agent of children who are very positive about this, should it be stated that in the case of the Children's Office, which we visited today, new members of Congress, it is very positive to this fact. She was also very positive about this change when she presented the committee exactly because it would be important for children to participate in society and influence their community, which would enhance their sense of identity. On the other hand, with regard to the European Union, it is evident that their main report on vote rates, not elections. It should be noted that their main concern is that an individual who may be elected to these elections may not know when the election begins and may not be aware of the time when the groups enter a re-election. Now, the bill does not expect, especially after the Commission's details have been explained in the majority section by changes, that the individual will be elected to a concordance with elections. Only with such a short period of time can it be said that people cannot be made aware of their rights in 60 days, as it were. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson came in, and now it's been announced to the election in less advance than 60 days. Classes have been made to investigate their policy issues and prospective voters to study policy issues and to explore everything that is in it in less than 60 days. The last time a government exploded here, last fall, the campaign was announced with great shame by the then prime minister, Bjarni Benediktsson, president of the Independence Party. What can 16 - year - olds do? Of course, this has only been considered in the leading section's committee program. At 16 years of age, a religion may be registered, but it should be noted that if a child is 12 years of age, the child's opinion should always be sought if parents plan to call a religion. At 16 years of age, a child can be enrolled in the United States, but a child can be enrolled at 15. There is no problem with the fine category of allowing them to participate in any party or in re-election, although the child who enrolls in the Independence Party has not become self - sacrificing. You wonder, though, if those who claim to be a third minority have opposed these rules in their own party. The right to decide health care is 16 years. The innocent age is 15 years. The license to buy alcohol is 20 years and a license to drive 17 years. So they'll argue 3 smaller things, if all of this doesn't seem to fit. It is worth pointing out, then, that the right to the county government and the right to vote for Congress is not the same, it is not consistent. Everyone, though, is elected to 18 years of age, depending on your citizenship whether you're allowed to participate in your country elections, elections, or elections. In terms of success, you have to be 35 to be elected to president, and 18 to the next, so there's a ring. Finally, the rights and responsibilities of a child who becomes 16 in the year should pay taxes in Iceland. You hear that the young men who have appeared before the committee and others who have concluded that paying taxes is unjust, but they are not allowed to tell what kind of taxes they are protected. Finally. In the discussion of the United Nations Children's Covenant, in its articles and speculations, children are generally viewed as having to be members of the community in order to have a chance of developing personal and social development - personal development because the right to express themselves and the knowledge that the subject is so closely related to self - respect, social development because children are independent and that they are part of the community. Children thus have the right to sense that they are widely recognized and heard that they gradually learn and feel responsible for their age and development. Thus, their rights are growing according to their older age. The parents'role, however, was to determine whether their parents would interfere with the way they would vote, at a certain age, will be more guidance and protection. Therefore, I strongly disagree with the opinions of my third opinion, which was presented in the matter of the day. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son, we're supposed to turn down the penitent age again to 16 years because we, the adults, are still doing this part of instruction and protection. Because we're looking at what's best for them, I think it's in their best interests that we keep them children longer than 16 years old. It has also been claimed that children's ability to participate in a democratic community is underestimated and that their rights should be viewed from a viewpoint to assume that they are qualified. Of course, we can totally wonder if the voters in Iceland in general are qualified to make an informed decision, but there is another debate, and it is certainly not our appreciation here at the General Assembly. So I agree with the opinion of the greater part I am involved in that we vote by reducing our election age in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u73	A respectable president. I'm going to begin by asking for the matter to go down to a panel of discussions. I've received requests to find out more about the case from sources. Then I want to thank you. Helgadóttir I'd like to ask her if she's aware that democracy and human rights are one of the basics of education according to a textbook and what it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u74	Madam President. Republic and human rights one of the basic factors - where I wholeheartedly agree. I think it's a doll in the local schools, yes. I think human rights are respected and that it is attempted to promote democratic awareness. I think it's according to a basic school course. That's exactly what I was pointing at, i.e. that even children and young people are taught more about democracy and human rights until the end of high school than in high school. I'm not throwing down what happens at high school, I think it's just a little more consistent in basic schools because I think high school is a lot different. It is a different system, whether a student attends the time that promotes democratic thinking and the thinking that it has to do with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u75	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. I think it is very important that these discussions be handled that democracy and human rights are one of the six basic elements of education according to a curriculum. The others are lock, sustainable, healthy and well-being, equal to and creation. This means that these factors are supposed to become part of all school work, and they do it as I know in play schools, elementary schools, and high school. This happens in different ways and in different ways, depending on the circumstances, so I wonder if. choosing a youth council representative, choosing a student's board, having a class meeting, choosing a playmate, and holding a meeting in a student society may be part of such education.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u76	Madam President. Thank you. A senator very much for the question. I think that all of this, all of this training, to participate in selecting representatives of the student society and participating in various social activities, expansive democratic thinking. That's exactly why I'm stuck with a 16 - year - old, when all this time he's got to vote in the student club, get involved in social activities, get to run around in various areas of school, that's why, why. Senator, I trust the 16 - year - olds fully to make an informed decision inside a country election hall. That's why I'm so involved. The education beyond what happens inside the schools is little or nothing unless they take it for themselves on the basis of elections. When I realized that the extracurricular education is little or no, I realized that it is not a barrier to continue this process, allowing the fall in the election age, because the interests of children working in the interests of children who were involved in the committee, and we agreed that this was in their interest. I think we at the Council are obliged to do just that, in the case of the United Nations Children's Laws and Children's Convention, to think primarily of the interests of children, not on political or middle - aged members.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u77	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I wondered after listening to her case whether it was correctly understood that her input was that the right to vote is in some way less minor than some other rights to older age. To me, it's just a decision, and it can't be said necessarily that either of the results is right, 18 years or 16 years, in this issue of when individuals are generally able to decide how to defend their votes. I believe that both 16 and 18 years of age can be drawn and reasoned, and there is no scientific way of reaching that conclusion. I wondered, though, if there is not a certain rationality in saying that when a person is completed in most matters, he is entrusted with his own place of residence, and has become a means of money and such, thereby becoming a competent member of the community, and therefore should receive its rights, including the right to vote. Of course, I'm well aware that today there are differences in age. I believe in many ways they are very illogical, i.e. The differences observed in the 16 year age range for some of the 18-year age range for the second and 20-year age range for the third factor. If we do not trust an individual to make decisions that involve relatively simple things in his personal life, do we want him to have the right to vote? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u78	Madam President. Thank you. Ármannsson I'm very much concerned with the question I've been asking for. He asked me if I thought the election age was less than anything, or the right to go to election would be less than just the right. I can simply answer it with both yes and no. The democratic right to enter the election is of utmost importance. The democratic right is significant, that individuals are allowed to vote, and so influence the community in which they live, that they do not have to subject themselves to any other person around them, who will be allowed to select the chosen representatives who will have power over them, because we have decided to have a representative democracy, but they will be allowed to participate in it. But I am aware that 16 - year - olds, as I said earlier, have become social conscious, socially aware and well - informed that they can share in exactly their community duty, that they can responsiblely do them their rights. On the other hand, I completely agree with what. To a senator, the difference between all these age - related rights is illogical in many respects. But we may not be dealing with it right now. We're dealing with it right here, and now we're dealing with the right to move the election to the county election to the age of 16, but the government has more to do with the community. [[The president calls.]] I may be able to answer this in detail in the next answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u79	V.E.G. President. Sounds like something to me. A senator agrees fairly that there are inconsistencies in the different individual rights based on different ages. Of course, some major steps were not taken so long ago when the age of self - discipline was raised from 16 years up to 18 years. There were reasons and perhaps there were discrepancies. Of course, it held together both rights and responsibilities, and including the right of humans for a particular protection as children, etc. It is now that I believe that in the present legal environment, perhaps most rights are in some way linked to autonomy and financial gain and 18 years of age, and, of course, the right of elections. I'll mention this because when we're making decisions like this, we have to ask ourselves, " Is there some logical context in the decisions we're making, whether we're making random decisions like this case, or whether it's part of some consistent policy? ' That's why I wanted to ask you why. A senator in the second, whether she felt it was normal to consider that the election was generally tied to 16 years, not just in the county election.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u80	Madam President. You might wonder, " Is it the right to bring down the entire election age to 16? But we're not really talking about it today. We're talking about whether these changes should be made in the U.S. elections because they don't have the same rules of elections for the government as elections for Congress, as I entered my speech earlier today. That's it. Also, we have, as shown by the opinion of the greater part, been experimented with, or made a firm decision to lower only the election age in rural governments. I only came into it earlier that the reason why it might be more suitable for local governments than it does for the council is because of the role of the local government, the local government and the mayor, where their role is far more relevant to this community, the immediate community of the individual. That's much more of our approach to the people than we are in here at the General Assembly. Of course, in various rights and responsibilities, it is true that in some ways, but I would still like to reiterate that I do not agree that simply because of your own protection, you should simply decline your age again. I speak that a child should be delighted to submit to a particular community protection longer than to 16 years of age.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u81	A respectable president. I was one of the couriers of this case when I was in Congress during the last term and, of course, continues to support it. There are many reasons in this matter that I have heard before and since. One of the people that I thought was most attractive against, so I'm saying fairly to them, is that we don't assume the duties of children at 16◯18 years of age to have to be responsible for the rest of the community, that we adult people take the burden on us, but we don't put them on children. To some extent, I think it's a beautiful thought, but it doesn't change my mind on the bill as a whole. The moisture mentioned here is evidence that internal harmony is needed. That's a good argument, but inside, drums don't match everything else. For example, in one of the most efficient categories of opposition, the independent group of people may well be able to express themselves. A 15 - year - old may not only join the ranks but also become his president. It may not have disturbed people there to see the internal inconsistencies in this regard. Actually, I'm saying that I started my political involvement considerably older, not much older, though, I was about At 19 years of age, he was in charge of all political parties for the 1999 elections. When I walked into the campaign office of the left green and met Algmund Jónasson, then slang. A senator, I had found my place in politics. This story has been heard before. But one of the things that has not been revealed, and I only learned that on the same trip, I just met a young bearded man who was also on the left side of a green offer at that time, and that is the vice president of the branch of the left movement, a green bid. He also helped shape my political stand, but perhaps not in the way he would have chosen. So since then, I've been declared and proud right man. Like I say, I think this is a good thing. The description I've given of how I started my own political involvement is like I think it should be. I don't think it's possible to expect school or educational work to advance the political interest. The institutions may simply have to stand back and allow groups and political groups to have this conversation without interlocking. I think that's our way of calling people to use their right to vote. Otherwise, I'll finish my case. I will not contribute to the delay of the growth of this power by the attention span of liberal senators, and I hope so earnestly that the matter will be resolved.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u82	Madam President. I recommend here for a synopsis proposal for the state of the Southnes. Her moving men are beside me. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einarsson, Elíasdóttir Friidífjörg, Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson, Guðjón Brjánsson Brján, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, and Helga Vala Helgadóttir. This interpretation proposal reads: The General concluded to commit the government to appoint a representative of rural communities on the Southnes and five head office experts, the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Proconservation, the Ministry of Education and Culture, and the Ministry of Health to implement a time-to-day strategy to promote the government's service to the citizens of the Southnes and meet a large population growth in the area. The staff submitted a report with results no later than September 1, 2018. Prime Minister introduces the results of the Group's work group to the General Assembly. A report by this council concluded that it is long time for the Southnes'affairs to be organized and a plan to strengthen the society in which you now live about 25 you are. ... aman. Over the past decade, society has suffered severe traumas that have proved difficult to overcome. In 2006, after 55 years of age, the defense team was eliminated from the Cheflavor airport, causing a fluctuation in commercial life on the Southnes when some 600 jobs were laid down. Despite the financial collapse, unemployment grew dramatically in the leading and the wake of the crash, which may be said to cause another shock to the region. Now, however, the number of Southnes population has increased dramatically over the past few years - less than 5 of you. a man in six years, but more than anything in the last two years. Such population growth is bound to have many challenges for the local community. Much of the new population is born of a broken foreign population, does not speak Icelandic, and needs it because of the greater service and assistance of various social infrastructures. Health services and other social infrastructures were weak as the population grew up. At the same time, an increase in the population in the area, which is mainly explained by an increasing stream of tourism into the country and a growing number of workers in international flights, has been observed with lack of housing. The number of inhabitants of Ásbek, where U.S. soldiers lived while the military was here, has doubled in the last six years. The U.S. Army left the local military station in Smokeynestown, although with laws passed in 2006, the local community was obliged to give the State credit. That discount, at the end of 2016, has estimated a billion dollars, but at the same time, the government has sold property that the military left for many billions of dollars. The report in which the Advisor firm Aton worked for Réjanestown on funding to the Southern institutions provided more comprehensive information on the rapid decline of the budget for each population in the Southnes. Transporters of this Parliamentary arrangement find it unacceptable that, at the same time as there is a need to attack public and social reforms and expand education, for innovation and social integration because of the above cuts in terms of population growth and for increasing percentages of foreign populations in the region, there is a standard for each citizen for health care and law enforcement, for example, to draw together. The movers are aware that the rural areas in the South are willing to welcome all citizens, domestic and foreign, and render them first-class service. However, this will not be done without the Kingdom's joining him. Keep in mind that population growth is due to sectores that benefit the entire nation. This synonym is suggested to appoint a group of representatives of state and rural society, as I said earlier. After this discussion, I suggest that the matter be addressed to the European Environment and Transport Committee where localities are saved, and it is my hope that this case will have good progress and positive results and that at the end of the council in the summer, we will be able to vote and settle it in a positive way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-21-42.u83	V.E.G. President. I recommend a proposal for a interpretation of the eco-friendly purchase of groceries, on a threshing floor. 353, suit 255, where financial and economic ministers are assigned to work the bill to take into account the environmental issues and the cost of public shopping. The bill shall be submitted before the May 2019 Council. Besides me, there's a whisk. Councilmen Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Linik Anna Sævarsdóttir, and Silja Gunnarsdóttir Ginsdotir at the motion. V.E.G. President. The bill's report puts it word for word, with the permission of the president: To minimise greenhouse gas emissions, use of harmful hormones and toxicities, overuse of antibiotics resulting in multi-drug resistant bacteria, and other harmful effects on the environment and the welfare of animals during the production and transport of food. Governments and rural communities can have a significant impact on this by guided by the environmental and expensive means of shopping for food. For example, it may be estimated that up to 150,000 people - students, government workers, residents in living and aging homes, and others - are regularly able to eat in public cafeterias. If two thirds of them are involved in making that choice, there are 100,000 people. Icelandic Public Shopping Act, No. 120/2016, based on the European Commission Directive on public shopping. The directive acknowledges that public shopping can be used to promote the environment and the well - being of animals. In particular, though, the laws on public shopping focus on ensuring that shopping is practical and that public citizens in general only allowed, but not related, to taking into account the environmental benefits of shopping. This suggests that public shopping will always take into account the environmental and expensive care of the public market. Thus, countries and rural areas place a heavy weight on the scales of eco-friendly food production. The government has already set ambitious goals on climate issues that go beyond the Paris Convention. The objective of Iceland's non-carbon shares in the year 2040 calls for broad support in rural areas, institutions, companies, and businesses in their efforts to set climate goals. All larger public plans need to be evaluated by climate targets. This will not be possible if we are going to be successful in climate matters and resist international commitments. The order of the Generals to further the green economy highlights a positive example for the State. It discusses how to integrate environmental views with good shopping practices. Both of these factors are taken into account in the policy of eco-friendly purchases and green state management that the government signed on April 9, 2013. It has been established in all public discussions and has found almost self - righteous today. That policy, though, does not cover the official purchases of food, as we have discussed. Thus, experience has shown that public shopping is a powerful tool to promote social responsibility and thus achieve positive goals. They are an unbreakable part of the economy and an important government control tool in public affairs. The aim of a law on public shopping is to ensure corporate equality, to promote government efficiency through active competition, and to promote innovation and development of public shopping on products, actions, and services, as shown in 1st. The law. Thus, it may be difficult to find a realistic way to take into account both the environmental protection and the cost of public shopping. It is not possible to obligatory companies and rural companies to select Icelandic foods, although it may be possible to argue that most of the food should be chosen and produced in the United States because of its quality and purity. For example, the results of a report on the carbon spor of the garden garden garden gardening industry show that in flight, Icelandic gardeners have the greatest advantage. Moving salad to the country costs more than three times as much carbon as the whole process in Iceland, with the ratio of the Icelandic carbon track of about 26% of it being imported. All of this matters in the big context when environmental issues are thought to be involved. In these times, it can hardly be avoided that public shopping takes to a greater degree the pressures we face on environmental matters. I would like to draw up a few points from the consumer policy of Icelandic sheep farmers I consider worthy of this call. It emphasizes that consumers get as much information as possible on the products produced by farmers with nature and society. Necessary information should be added to the consumers so that environmental food footprints are clearly expressed in terms of carbon emissions, fertilisation, genetically modified food, antibiotic use, hormonal use, etc. Special attention should be paid if the products are not fully identified from animals that are produced in comparable animal procedures and national principles. It specifically discusses the example of the public at consumer protection by a moral shopping policy, which puts it word for word, with the permission of a president: The lack of information on origin, animal history, environmental footprints, hormone, drug, and toxicities will be required for all public shopping on the factors that identify in the course of 1◯4. In this respect, buying both government and rural society is essential for food to meet the strictest standards of quality. Loyalty, purity and environmental footprints for antibiotic use, animal control, hormone, drug and toxic use will be evaluated at least as important as public invitations and shopping for food and prices, or proper purchases. This value for state, rural society, and all government institutions and societies. Add to this: During the consumer policy of Icelandic sheep farms to 2027, it is assumed that the amount of carbon equal for 2027 has been used for sheep and that all Icelandic sheep products will be recognized by minimal environmental track by 2027. Icelandic sheep are already born without hormones and growth - inducing drugs, and genetically modified food has been banned. The use of antibiotics has the least known thing in the world. We are so lucky to live under favorable weather and climate conditions, so there is no special need for poisons or excipients in Icelandic sheep farms. And there is little application in international comparison. All of these are vital aspects of environmental, animal, and consumer protection. Is it not necessary for consumers to have clear information about these matters so that they can have informed choice of goods? V.E.G. President. Recently, the problem arose. paritaprevir The rest of Ingi Pétursson presents a request for a written answer to the board's board's advice on the share of Icelandic food in shopping admins. The answer has not yet been received, but it will be intriguing to see how high the ratio is. Then I'd also like to know that in a report to the Council by the National Re-evaluation, we are likely to be on the road to eco-friendly purchases when it comes to food. The greatest success has been our shopping for paper and hygiene products. It's very simple. They only follow hungry lips. There are clear instructions with certain meanings on the lips. There is much progress, but it is a work to do when it comes to food. It's tighter. Usually, shopping is designed to be done. The rules may need to be explained when it comes to them, when the invitations are carried out, and when they are accepted. It would have to be fixed, there's work to do, and I hope we have the good fortune to move on. In fact, we have an obligation to comply with the policy that has been in force since 1998, but that policy, for eco-efficiency, and for a green state, was revised in 2013. We're on the right track, but we need to board sleeves and get better results. In this way we can also strengthen domestic food production. I'm not shy about it, she's quite able to compare with production elsewhere. Here we have a lot of quality, and we need to know what all the processes are, from the beginning of the product to the time it arrives on the table of the consumer. That's where we stand. I hope this case gets started and put it here.
