ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u1	Borist has received a letter from a health minister requesting every time to give a written answer to a petition on a 234, on the access of disabled persons to a more specialized mental - health service, from Sævar Sævarsson. A letter has also been received from the Minister of Justice requesting every time to give a written answer to a petition on Article 213 for a drug violation on a criminal record from Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u2	Mr. President. I'd like to make up the subject of a report published on the Kingdom News website today on the experiences of the new health - care agency, and on the changes made in May. The change was intended to reduce the cost of long - suffering disease and is important. On the other hand, the Sigurður son of Jóhannsson decided to contribute to the lower cost of the long - suffering patients who are less ill, so that those who become ill, including the elderly and the desperate, would pay more. ASI website contains information about the change from the previous year. It shows that the time in the neck, nose and ear doctors was increased by 50% for the elderly and the scarred, the time in gynaecologists by 56%, for a cardiologist by 68%, and the time for a mental - health professional was increased by 60% for the elderly and the microorganism, or from 4,102 k. of 10,270k. During 2016, the Ministry of Health, then Kristján Þór Júlíusson, is now serving at the highest level. A seafaring and agricultural minister would have made it a promise to the Commission that the roof of payment would be reduced to 33,000. To the elderly, and to the poor, and to the children: but there shall be a thousand years. for others. That promise was betrayed, the roof is still far too high or 70,000 bucks. for general patients and 46,000 K. for children, disability and pensioners. We in the United States want health care to be free and immediate action will be taken in that direction. The government of Sigurður Ingi son of Jóhannsson wanted to have a lower cost of longsuffering from other patients and the elderly and the microorganisms. The government of Bjarni, the son of Benediktsson, did not want to change that. And now the question is, Is the government of Katrín's daughter, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, still wanting to go down into the pockets of the elderly and desperate to reduce the health - care cost of chronic illness?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u3	A respectable president. I wanted to make the publicity of our heroes in the rescue forces. We hear every day of the year talking about their heroes caring for important tasks and needs. The number of projects is increasing each day as tourists increase, population growth. In addition, the basic public service groups, such as the police we address below, the medical personnel, the roadmakers, and others, have been given increased assignments that they cannot handle. This calls for increased access to volunteers in the rescue forces. All of this needs to be kept in mind when discussing these matters. I know that having a full will is for people in the rescue forces to do this; it makes them happy. At the same time, it is harder for the rescue teams to finance their operations and also more expensive for them to carry out more work. Everything can be overdone. The endurance may not be as much as that. It is also being carried on in the rescue teams as well as elsewhere, e.g. Police and hospital transportation, of course, that the good people who have served there are called for travel services to travel to the highlands with tourists and so forth. When a rescue force needs to be called or the police just don't get people in it. These people have gone to other jobs. We need to think about this. I want to talk about this today because we're going to talk about the police. I know an example of the hospital transport workers who had needed help to get into the highlands, where all the rescue workers in the area, usually doing many jobs, were already in the highland with the injured, where they were in the traveling work. I think this is something we need to keep in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u4	Mr. President. It is important to shed light on Arion's stock meeting of banks that agreed to buy their own letters in the days, since it is the beginning of a complex hedge fund on the part of the State. The proposal may not be available, but it is important to know because it may not be legal. For 55th. law on financial enterprise states that executives in financial companies must not interfere with individual business decisions and should not be involved in a case of business management or substantial interest. We need to know who was the source of the hedge fund to decide at Arazon's stock meeting. Is that the condition of the FME? What was the arrival of the chairman of a hedge fund in making this proposal for a stockholder meeting? What did the government say? What is the position of an FME, a World Bank, and a financial standard to use its own funds to buy such a large part of one shareholder, the state, for the benefit of the other shareholders? Why is it that not all shareholders or more money is paid to shareholders equally? The bank's Arion is being used to profit from the bank's business with the common people in order to buy a share of the state's subsidies just to make the property of hedge funds more valuable. I would like to challenge members of Congress to stick together to protect the interests of the public. We're supposed to take this fight and we're not going to pay for this deal. Treat the case before the courts. We don't owe us anything to the hedge fund. Let's not get caught up. Mr. President. Not another pay matter. There is a secretism over this matter, as in Icesave, all under government authority. The media will fight to the last man in this matter. There are billions at stake for the Icelandic public.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u5	Mr. President. I'd like to use this opportunity to talk about fish farming and eutrophication in the smaller, small, medium-sized companies. Hunting costs have been discussed in the trade - road committee since January. We've brought in a number of visitors to review these issues. There's a reexamination of hunting costs in the Ministry. There is a great deal of concern in small and medium-sized companies and rural communities where the industry and the industry are developed, that many people give up and quit, and there will be continued compression. We've also received representatives from the fish markets that worry because it's this small, medium-sized company that keeps the fish market going. If there were no fish markets in this country, sight would be like that. This can happen very fast. We must recognize this and respond. It can't stand the fact that fishing costs increase by 200 to 30%, as they have been, that's the reality. They need to be treated. We watch companies close, like last year, HB Granda at Aranesp, Frostfish in the Sharkate. There were 50 missing jobs to reach Hafnarfjörður. I was now present for the pleasant event that icefish was opening last week at the HB Granda residence at Aquilin. What a joy it is when companies have the courage to vent themselves from the capital area to such places as Acdepos, a well - known fishing industry! It's a funny thing if you don't have a fish industry and make a living on Aranesp. Then there is something wrong with the plays that we need to consider here at the Council. It is very good that the many fish farm women, mostly those who were reaching out for work here in the capital area, could now be employed at Acdéri. Of course, they were very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u6	A respectable president. February 12th. So the person standing here traveled to the northwestern district of district for a special week. The first stop was the Quasimodo. There I met prisoners and prison guards and discussed the matter of a prisoner in a town. One of the greatest complaints was the lack of mental - health care. It's not a new problem, unfortunately, it's an old problem and has been pointed to it for a long time. This is a very serious problem in prisons as well as in other parts of the community. But I would think it was in prisons that we would like to have the best possible mental - health service. On February 13, the next day, in the News News magazine, reports that the prisoner of the Crimea had committed suicide. It is such evidence of anxiety that you would rather not read about. That is for me personally a great reminder. And I think it's a reminder to all of us that we can't treat this group like some remaining size. Prisons are part of our human society. We are under obligation to ensure that people who have the rights and have access to minimal health care, including mental - health care. Let this serve as a reminder to us. Let this move us to do well in this and to finance this party properly, for we do not want to judge people for death in Iceland, do we?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u7	Mr. President. Recently, sheep farmers presented ambitious tasks that mark the full range of carbon equals for five years in the United States. The foundation of the project was the assessment of the carbon footprint of the article prepared for farmers from Iceland's Environmental Counsel. This is part of the extensive policy of sheep farmers to ten years of age, and it was performed while the one serving as head of the National Association of Sheeps. Icelandic sheep's leg is estimated to be 291 fars. tons a year. That's less than half of all Icelandic carbon footprints. It is important that information such as this be on tables so that consumers can know about the environmental footprints of the product available to them. Thus consumers have a better basis for making informed decisions about goods. The state has multiple environmental policies and the government is heading for Iceland's non-carbon object system in 2040. The government is a large purchase and services in Iceland, possibly the largest. The total cost of a country or a state is more than 300 billion a year. A significant part of it is food. The 2002 commercial policy of the state shows that environmental considerations should be taken into account as well as costs and quality. If goods are comparable in other respects, those who are less likely to harm the environment should be selected. This is important in view of the fact that the government, which is heading for Iceland's carbon share of carbon, dusted the government's shopping policies, and goes into the stitches of all its stores associated with food. In this review, it is also good to consider the following factors: antibiotic, toxic or hormonal use during the manufacturing process and the guidance of moral farming.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u8	Mr. President. It may be said that reports of one of the premiums of 13% of the State's share in Arion's bank were taken by surprise. There have been further informed regarding the view that this fermentation is based on unscrupulous rights based on contracts. Also, even if, as far as possible, the Bank Management Board recommends this business, it does not specifically consider valuable assets, such as the payment company Valitor, but also uses other methods. So, Mr. President, here we are discussing the largest bank in the country that is considered systematically important, as it is, but the owners are not fully understood. They are at times referred to as hedge funds, but in the prestigious foreign media, this one is often used by vultures. So we are in a position to say that a major part of our financial system, our banking system is in the hands of someone we know at first not who is, and the second, it can be assumed that they have a short - term guide. I am stressing that in the work ahead of us at the General Assembly in this case, people are aware of the interests of state funds according to the documents and evidence available in this matter. Also, by what means elected representatives can best care for the interests of the State Fund and the public in this important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u9	Mr. President. I have to say, as it is, that this week's program is not very patient. If we were in a fishing business, we would probably have been sent home because of a lack of raw materials. There's really nothing on this thing on the part of the government. The few cases there are either minor adjustments or cases of remutation remain the same from the former government. The government's topic log expected that 86 prime products, or Senate decrees, would have been submitted by the end of February. Not long after February of the month, but I believe that the government's prime complaint and Senate decrees are about 30, about one third of what was supposed to be performed at the end of February. I find it interesting to make a little comparison. In a new government, there are two groups who were highly critical of the last government for doing nothing in its first days. This government is just over 90 days old, but within the same period, 60 cases were presented from that government, or twice as many as this government has been able to cough up in the first 90 days. I think the government's loss of work has become rather embarrassing. We have to look forward to the election's elections, which means that this spring is an unusually early assembly, although it will certainly come back together again, and there is also a six - month Passover permit. It is not for the council to take very long to win the 110 cases yet to come, according to the Government Constitution. I don't think this is an example of work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u10	Mr. President. It's going fast for a short spring convention. Yesterday's discussions revealed that there were some cases coming from the government, and many people waited. This is a thought - provoking point, but unfortunately it is not new. When Congress officials press their best consciences to the green, red, or yellow button, there is a danger of stumbling. An example of this was discussed in the bill yesterday. Others are more serious than any members of the council from the previous council. Once again, changes in practices are called for, better organization, and, as is often called, less willing. It is boring when we give up in good faith from a committee of subjects designed to serve their purpose as law rather than do what should, even in important matters. I'm here to mention the patient's credit system, which went into effect in the previous year. A senator mentioned in his talk earlier. The system was designed to meet the needs of long - suffering people who had high health care costs. In some respects, these goals have been reached for common users. However, these changes were also designed to meet the low income prices of disability and older citizens. That goal has not been reached. The poor now contributes about 16% more for health care and the elderly by 25%. It's crazy. The prime minister's bill originally assumed payment roofs so that patients never paid more than 92,500 dollars. every year for health care. In the case of the matter, a minister, although the payment would be no more than 50. K. every year. This is far from possible. The payments are at least 70 points. K. every year and probably higher. Therefore, it is important, and in this the challenge is that a body of Congress agrees to the Community's declaration of noncombatant health care that the maximum paid for medical care outside the medical facility will never be higher than 35 of you. K. each year and at the same time, the share of the elderly and the disability of dentists will be reduced. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u11	A respectable president. I'd like to make up the subject of a meeting at a health committee this morning, where mental health and follow-up was discussed and mental power, which is a resource which is a multi-priced abroad, which goes to about one of the countries. a thousand people every year. There are ideas that there will be subsidies. It is a unique resource for mental - health problems, as well as for the only means for family members to seek recovery and healing because of the illness of family members. That's where people can come right off the street. There's no need for reference or anything. How important it is for us who talk about promoting mental - health professionals in our country that we do not take the most beautiful flower in the garden and tear it up! I think it's very important. We in this hall should unite to prevent this institution, this mental service, will be laid down. I think we made the wrong decisions. We're supposed to rethink it. We're supposed to be people to do that. This will cost 55 million a year. Making it work will not cause us much trouble. I challenge all of us to stand guard over this beautiful flower that has helped so many in their sickness and distress.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u12	V.E.G. President. I come up here because I haven't had satisfying answers yet. Is it true that the demands have never received any rights in Arion's bank? Is it true that demandsmen have not kept their end of the contract, which turns to paying for the bank? Is it true that one council representative of the 2009 stock agreement was appointed to represent the State's interests? Or, in other words, they were placed on the other side of the table permanently. Since we are now working on a process since 2015 on decommissioning, there was now the highest level. Secretary of finance, too. The process was open as well as the methodology and therefore the contract should be public. Is it true that in the 2009 stock market agreement, the purchase price was kept secret when it was published publicly by wiping out the regulations under contract? In fact, there are other laws. This reminds us of the secret coating, which was tried to keep more treaties made by the same government in 2009. All to atone for an omensor. The price of the premium seems to be the highest. Prime Minister at the General Convention, which actually conflicts with the words of Prime Minister for an interview with RUS last week, but if so, it must be normal to have everything on the table. What will be the result? This is a balance that is taking place in a hedge fund even more closely in the Icelandic financial system through the blessing of the FEC. Other countries have chosen not to go that way. They've been on the side of the country with the public. There is every reason to start a further investigation of the private development of the banks.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u13	A respectable president. I want to talk to you about things related to fish farming. For example, to be found on the Sea Department's Web, there is now a plan for a bill on the subject, which is certainly just for presentation, and will go to church treatment according to hearsay. It caught my attention that this suggests that fish farms have only to register their work at the EEA but not to get work permit from there. But there's certainly a license for the Food Agency. There are a lot of good things to find in this bill and there's a need to explain the legal environment, but I have to admit I was a little surprised to see it there, because the authority to do this is due to changes in the laws of loyalty and pollution approved at the last council. At that time, environmental protection organizations were to be criticized in this way as well as by the European Union. The Environment and Transport Committee submitted a consistent committee study on this subject. It says, with the permission of the president, that a certain operation needs to be written only by the EEA but no longer authorised: ▪ The Commission provides the basis for understanding that broad consultations should be made with the partner and all the reasons will be respected and evaluated before a decision on the application of the source for a particular job will be made. It should be taken into account that this expanded access will be used mainly for smaller types of activities that are not identified as a threat to environmental pollution or other sources. It was clear to the legislator's will last year, an agreement was reached on the environment and transport committee at that time. I trust that this clear will of the lawgiver will enter any bill code that is now available for introductions. I'd like to encourage the government to look in greater context on this matter of fish farming, it's not just a business, it's not just a community or just an environment, or whatever we do, it's all. I encourage the government to take this into consideration at its level.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u14	A respectable president. I'd like to talk about government responsibilities. And that state responsibility for a Venahull tunnel, such as the finest possible way through a mountain and nothing about it. But I have some things to say about the state responsibility. Now I've tried to inquire about a particular calculation of the true state responsibility. All the calculations we've received are not correct. They pay for the government, the purchases, and the terms the government borrows. Not according to markets, as the law clearly states on government responsibilities. The calculation we have said is that the loan we've given at the cost of about 15 billion. A lot of calculations we've done, which are really guesswork and I've been asking for confirmation from the Statety Fund and more sources, are even 25 billion. That's 10 billion bucks. The difference between the price of the tunnel being sold to the operator. That is the difference that the operator can actually put in his pocket compared to what he would otherwise be paying from a higher loan, which is 25 billion that the government should get back for this risky investment. The government took all the responsibility for this. It was a very risky investment. According to the State responsibilities fund, which had the last state responsibility for this project, this is in a fortune-traveling category, or a non-industrial, with over 13% interest, on the top of cash banks. Now I've been asking about this for over a year. That was the last thing I did before the election was in the fall. On the last day, Friday before election, I repeated to the chairman of the budget board that this should be answered, however the election went. It is very clear that we have the right to calculate how much this tunnel costs and how much Kingdom responsibility costs. [[The president calls.]] What the State loses in this case may sound up to 10 billion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u15	A respectable president. The last few days have come to the position of immigrants in Icelandic school systems, both following a report in the National Ministers on Education and a recent diagnosis of the National Institute of Education and the current Institute for Education at the School of Students in Icelandic languages. In recent years, the number of schools and elementary schools has increased rapidly and is increasing rapidly. According to Iceland's Haguems Office, children had a foreign language of 2,410 in play schools in 2016 and 4,148 in elementary schools. We need immigrants. Business life, however, now never trusts in imported labor. What's the job responsibility? How will it provide an environment for parents of these children? It is clear that there is a need for reform in this suit. Many of us have set fine goals in law and policy. A number of teachers around the country are doing great things in Icelandic language, but overall vision and policy induction are lacking. An ongoing study project is very supportive of this class of students, but more is needed. They need better tools, teachers, and schools. A report by the National Institute of Education points out that there are many areas of work to be done. Study, study, study, assessment tools, receptions, language, education counseling, research, training, and development of work are required. My opinion is that all of this is of great importance and that the first step is to establish a central team to work in this category, to support teachers, to lead reforms in all these fields, to ensure the cooperation of all the schools, high schools, high school, university, and adult education. There, countries, communities, and employment have to work together.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u16	A respectable president. Today, 14 months have passed since the loss of a cent from a pensioner. It is 14 months that the poor have had to sit with a cent in front of a dollar. It is nothing more than mere human rights violations, economic violence. We've agreed to the United Nations Convention. Is it the first condition we're going to set, to hold a dollar in return to a dollar? All units promised to take it off. Where are the promises? It is quite remarkable how rising growths have recently occurred in micropiercing. Drug costs, all kinds of increases occur. But poorer and older citizens don't get the right pay raise. Not according to a pay number. No, it's taken as a consumer calculator or worse. It's about half of it. It was 4.7%, supposed to be 7.4%. Or 47% if you were right. Then there's another one, and there's income connections. The level of commitment to a mate is growing. Do you appreciate what those who are desperate have to pay for being married? A couple who are married need to pay a million each year. What kind of respect does it have for a marriage? Would you accept the fact that we should be paying 2◯3 million, with members of Congress, for the privilege of being married? It's time for us to revise these things, and it's long time for this infamous cent to cross the neighborhood of a dollar. Everyone has promised. I'm going to ask all the classes in here, are you going to keep this? Or was it all empty promises? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u17	Mr. President. Hv. The head of the professional car committee, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, spoke of the problems of a minor project. I agree with her. We need to examine especially the problems of minors and also the problems of uneasiness, that is, of course, a problem that confronts them. I warn you, and I also did so at a meeting of the employment committee yesterday, that the emergency of a certain small enterprise will be used to promote injustice when it comes to paying a fair price for the resource. I warn that this problem will lead to injustice when it comes to this price, a reasonable amount of access to the resource. Why do I say that? Yes, all of us must be on guard. It's just that way. In a government with a what. A senator of the left green is members of Congress and Ministers of Independence and Anarchy. These are the persons who have been around for years, both in charge of the resource directive and in charge of this fair amount of access to the resource. That's what I'd like to say. I warn you not to take advantage of this emergency. However, I would especially like to agree that the government's lack of work has become unbelievable. We are asking, not for these unpleasant things, but for the good things the government has foretold. It's the insides. Where are they? The following is the very issue of law enforcement. Where's the law enforcement design plan? Where's the transport plan? It was last night that I pointed out to the highest level. In fact, the secretary of transportation is not even going to publish a process of transport that should be proud of, until after a cloth and a plate in the fall. I don't know why. Then, on the radio this morning, he offers a series of sermons and a message of traffic security that there will be a major increase in traffic fines. [[The president calls.]] Instead of trying to approach that matter with a little more motivation, such as the Swedes have. did, topv. With good results and great success, to approach this rather positively is said to increase the number of fines; rather than establish a particular impulse system for drivers to behave better in traffic. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u18	V.E.G. President. I want to say thank you at first. Minister of Justice for participating in the affairs of the police in the country. There was often a need to discuss this, but now it is necessary because Iceland's police business today is completely off-limits. They're always trying to make things right. Three, four years ago, 500 million were placed in budgets that were to add 54 new jobs to the police. What is it? Over the years, police officials have decreased from 712 in the whole country to 629. In the budget bill this year, the government improved the conversation between 180 million. K. ... law enforcement. Fine. What do we get for 180 million? We don't get two crews in a police car in Reykjavík 24 hours out. There's one thing people don't seem to realize. It takes a lot to have a strong law enforcement force, including. because there are five and a half times the value of a policeman every day or every 24 hours. This is what anyone involved in organizing or calculating the shifts. This is what it takes. In Reykjavík alone today, 88 police officers are missing that the number of them is in line with the rise in population since the turn of the century. This is outside the tourists. What does it mean to improve, e.g. to 88 persons in Reykjavík? That means we get four men on duty for the same reason I was shaving earlier. It takes 88 jobs to do that. The contraction appears everywhere. It's shown in that there's less driving police cars that remember about 250 of you. three years of national exposure. What does that mean? This means that the civilian initiative and surveillance are intertwined. Week after week we hear about increased driving, e.g. in the capital area, where drugs are being influenced and take enormous tolls from the police work. We also experience that since the shifts have become smaller today than they have been, the police will be more willing to leave the scene in each case. What does that mean? It means that police are constantly fighting, we're losing men to injury, apart from the fact that it's not a good thing for police officers to walk in almost the same way that they're going to have to fight civilians they're going to have to interfere with. There is also a eloquent example of how these have been cast into the hands of police officials, and they have not thought things through. I'm glad she's at university, but this was done on no note. Iceland's police school was laid down on no notice. We lost two seniors because of this case. We'll probably get 40 people to work after that school season, 60 next year. These people have little or no experience or training. They're always running to the last minute and throwing them in. We can travel far around the country. All over the world, there is a decrease in number. In Western Europe, the North, the South, and especially here in the capital area. It's very serious. In addition, it should be noted that at the same time equipment should be removed. The cars are getting old. More computers are needed to deal with economic crime, etc. I welcome the initiative of a minister in bringing in a new money, which is actually not on the budget, it's a rubber check, to further research on sexual abuses. Good-looking, long-term. But all of this is done in haste. There's no policy. There's no overall policy. In Reykjavík today, likely a billion people are needed a year just to be able to hire these 88 men I was talking about earlier. It's an exception to improving equipment, etc. Now we need senators to hear from the highest level. Minister of what she intends to do, what she intends to put before the council in order to promote law enforcement in the country. I have no doubt that in this room there are a lot of people who are willing to lie down in rivers with the highest force. Minister, but we need to know what the government wants to do about these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u19	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for bringing up the police business. I'm very pleased to hear a welcome hearing from the U.S. Marshals' Department. Of course, police play a key role in society's safety and response systems. It is very important that the entire body of Congress be united with the police at any given time. However, I would like to make a comment to wording. A senator who describes the situation of the police as a total fear - inspiring situation in his speech. I can't agree with that. We are seeing the results of great organizational changes that took place some years ago in police offices and arrangements, with reduced numbers and unity. In so doing, they were greatly enhanced. There were not many positive ones in their time. But the result is that not all negative voices today are heard because of these organizational changes. Many have approached me and even mentioned the possibility of further unity, even though they are not in the near future waiting. We now see the results of that organizational change. As for the development of financial resources, the police had a massive cut-off from economic collapse, as was the case with other government agencies. It was, in my opinion, energy, for as I have mentioned, the police play a key role and is one of the basics of society. Of course, cutting down may be questionable, but it may not be necessary to keep the funds carefully in their place. Since 2014 the budget for the police has increased by 34%, by 4 billion, or by 2 billion in real value if we overlook the price change and raise. That's more than 2 billion since 2014. I would also like to mention that the amount of money has increased the number of police officers. However, this may be unclear when speaking of the exact number of policemen, which on February 1, 2017, were highly educated and determined police officers 649, with an increase of 29 on February 1, 2014. It is important to remember that this may not tell the whole story about the development of a number of police officers during the period, since the number of people in the region and the decommissionors increased considerably at that time. Among the tempists may be professional men. The actual increase in the values in the state of the police is thus larger than those figures suggest. I would also like to mention that there is now no room for any special work of the border, once performed by professionals of police, so border guards no longer exist in this number. I, however, have the mind to know, and to let it be known, how it is said that the increase has not been more than it has seen, in view of this huge increase in budget. Today, a complete analysis of the values in the state of the police and the reasons that the increase has not been increased. It may be that the possible explanation is that there is quite a difference in long-term illness in the police department. The average wages for illness, as well as the costs for neglecting the sufferer, are to be paid. And, as advising the case, there has been a shortage of professional police officers because the State Police School did not write enough people at its time to meet the need for renewal in the police department. As an advising put it, there has been a change in the education of the police, at a university. Now in force of the Ministry of Education Convention at the University of Akureyri, about 40 except a year, I made special arrangements to increase them next year so that they will be 49 and have declared my will to increase their numbers. In comparison, the police school wrote only about 16 each year during his final years of work. [[The president calls.]] I look forward to hearing the viewpoint of members of the Parliament in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u20	Mr. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson father is very eager to begin this discussion on the state of law enforcement in Iceland. At the council, we've been talking about the council as well as outside the council because of the terrible situation of law enforcement for so long and now by the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. We prepared a discussion on the financial plans of the last council that the legal budget would be increased by 600 million and in the ensuing election in October 2017, we continued to focus on the problem. Yeah, it's a freak-out situation. Minister of Justice. A police officer said that the number of police officers used here was $1 billion short. This is not a new situation. Instead, the National Association of Police Officers and State Marshals has been calling for years because of the lack of police officers and the pressures of those working there. However, it is not unusual for police officers to do 100 overtime hours every month on their daily work, on top of all the pressures there is. In the capital area alone, it is estimated that if 100 police officers are well - off, there will be no more or fewer 5,300 cases of payment. There is a fear - inspiring situation, 5,300 cases of violation tolerance, where there are families, where there are defendants waiting for the outcome. Around the country there is a shortage of policemen, and there is little or no service in many lands. Mr. President. It's a political decision. By 2007, there were 712, now 11 years later, 660 police officers. In 2008 the combined number of tourists is equal to the size of the previous 60 years, or seven million. This year it is estimated that there are three million tourists. How's the top? The Minister of Justice predicts that the safety of tourists and citizens will be guaranteed when this is the case?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u21	Mr. President. This is an important legal discussion. I agree that there is a need for improving the law enforcement system in the country, and, of course, financial contributions are of enormous importance in this country. I think we're going to be in that position over the next few years to take a look at it. I especially welcome it as the highest. Minister of Justice noted earlier that the analysis of why the rise in police officers has not been greater than seen in recent years. We must have to dive into it. There's more to it than just the centenarian who's going into law enforcement business. I would like to mention the content of the work, i.e. how police work, how important it is, as well as police education. Of course, it is always in connection with the budget of the jury, but it also matters how the police work. And now it's nice to say that while we're in this discussion here, we're reviewing a conference in Akureyri, with a heading of ▪ law enforcement, and the community ◯ rural law enforcement. It is moving a lot of exciting details on the role of the police in modern society. I'd like to be especially happy to know that there was money in a sex offender's operation program, since the prevention, investigation, and sexual abuse of the police are part of the general law enforcement system, and women are subject to frequent violations, and they are about half of the public population in this country. I'm afraid that in the past, when we discuss law enforcement matters in general, there is something important about sex, it has been overlooked. Women need special attention in the community. That is why I feel that this emphasis is important and should be mentioned when discussing the general law.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u22	A respectable president. We in Pirates may have been most concerned with police surveillance when it comes to police matters, and at the time of Congress, we made a pact of independent police surveillance and police activities. As it turned out, the local minister of the Interior set up a committee called a police surveillance committee and we'll see how it works. One of the things we've been holding back from the start is that when it comes to police authority, we have to make sure that the police are not moved to use sources beyond what is needed. Of course, the greatest need will be when it is stressful, when there is low wages in thankless work, and when all too few people do their job. It's not only about having adequate law enforcement in the context of having enough police officers to investigate the crimes, we also have to live with the police as an institution allowing them to do the job without resorting to advice that I think most people don't want to do anything about it. Today, it is often hard to believe that there is something the police can do. However, it is a human institution with human imperfection, just as the World Council and other human institutions do. But this is the institution that can be used with physical power. It has authority far beyond other institutions, permission to use people's authority. When we do, it is important that we make the best of our life. Part of it is being monitored. We'll take a closer look at these psalms later. The biggest part of preventing a need is that a police officer be well - paying and educated enough. We've taken a good step, I think, toward education, but there's still a lack of a lot of money and money. We are to show appreciation for those in this class.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u23	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's efforts to attend this discussion, which is certainly urgent. V.E.G. A minister claims that police authorities have increased, but this does not seem to be the case, since the number of police officers in most parts of the country has declined. The country on January 1, 2015, was brought together by police reforms that should have led to further expansion of visible law enforcement, but this has not been the case. A report by the Justice Minister's Working Group on United States of 2009 says, on the permission of the President: With these changes in the police organization [...] there is a prerequisite for a significant legal management. The possibilities are at least in my overage... In time, it speaks of how that practical approach could pay off. If, in particular, it is noted that with less overwork of housing, with a simple control organization, there is a chance of making the police more visible and the function more flexible. Thus, the decrease in the number of police from the same time is not in harmony with the combined objectives, nor is it consistent with the growing population or the growing number of tourists at the same time. I'd need big-time law enforcement on the road. There is also a need to increase the police'support of other groups of the country, such as drug addicts and others. So these matters are urgent. It would be most successful then to review and accept the legal program and then to activate it with funding for implementation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u24	A respectable president. In the beginning, I want to thank you for this discussion about the law enforcement of the country, which is a long time ago in my opinion. For example, if a number of police officers are talking about the advancement of law enforcement, it may be good to go back a little bit and discuss the growing number of police officers, since this has often been spoken before. What year should we start this misery story? We don't have to go back until 2014. It may be good to take that year as an example, for at that time the Ministry of Justice was in the hands of the legal department of this group. The police call for an increase is not new. So it was there, too, six years after the collapse. Then, in the morning issue of January 23, 2014, a member of the Parliament writes by permission of a president: What a joy it is to... be immediately engaged in the urgent task of promoting law enforcement in the country! In the Treaty, the present government emphasized the importance of setting priorities for basic services. It was decided to spend 500 million on the top of the police... And later, with President's permission: The number of law enforcement officials will increase by 44, in addition to the 10 responsible officers in this year's budget. And finally: It is evident that this is only the first step in the advancement of the police. Where are these men today? What happened to this half a billion? In 2011, police officials according to figures from the State Marshal's office were 652. Next year 656. After that, 654. Then 653 and again 653 and in 2016, there were 646 according to government statistics. It doesn't move anything. There was no increase, and two years later, two years later, after this article was written, about seven according to the police chief's number. The same conclusion, though, is taken into account by replacements and local police officials. During the same years, the total number of people, including the number of them, has dropped by 15. Why am I remembering this? Because we're calling for real action to attack police officers, to promote general and visible law enforcement, which the police themselves have called for years before they have been deaf. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u25	Mr. President. V.E.G. A minister called for the council's views toward law enforcement. They're simple, and the message's very clear: Let's get the law, we'll support the police. It's very simple. In 2012, I sat on a transliterian committee that gave me a very clear suggestion to be a minister of the Interior. The same year a report to the council on the need to increase the number of policemen was published by 236. This was the report of all classes, prepared for the Minister of the Interior, and then returned a report to the council. Our message in resurgence is very clear to the Minister of Justice: We've got the law. This is a government formed on infrastructure. The police are an important part of the national and national infrastructure, so this is a very clear message. I'd like to introduce something else because there is a need for more intensive surveillance and law enforcement in various fragility groups. It's about national security and computer security. At the end of the last year, there was a literal collapse of a whole Web service company, a 1984 host. More important, political parties and others. No one said that he saw something like that before. It is quite clear, and I understand from major experts, including from Denmark and other places, that this is how no one can do but powerful nations or powerful people are behind such an attack on a web service company. There is good reason to put the stitches in very good shape on this matter, for it is a matter of national security. That's why I'm asking. Minister: Has any investigation of the system crash of 1984? If not, does it not seem that a minister has every reason to promote law enforcement and computer surveillance for national security?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u26	Mr. President. I want to make the publicity of the state of law enforcement on the Southnes. In 2015 alone, nearly five million passengers traveled through Leifs station; in 2017, nearly nine million passengers went through the station; they predicted that this year nearly 11 million passengers will be traveling by bus. There is a rapid increase in the number of people. In this context of the development of annual activities at Keflavour Airport, we can see that companies such as Istavia and other commercial services have greatly increased their workers. Thus, in 2015 Istavia and air service companies were 540, over 1,100 in 2017. However, only 64 in 2017 were the work of the South's police station. Most of them are border guards, not police officers. At the same time, population growth in Southnes has been unprecedented; in the past six years, the population in the South has increased by more than 22%. The number of foreign citizens is tripled and the increase in the number of lovers is multiplied. The number of foreign residents in the area is now 20%. When it comes to security and law enforcement, all of this affects citizens. The people of the South are not to suffer when it comes to law enforcement so far, travellers, foreign labor, and take refuge. This situation requires increased law enforcement, both in public and in research. The government has to deal with this. The activities of police officers who conduct general law enforcement at the office of the Southnes police chief were 46 in 2007. In 2017, there are 40. In other words, the number of years spent in the Southnes police department has been reduced. Southnes can increase the number of police officers right away. You can do this by having Istavia pay a bit of law enforcement at Leifs Station. Istavia's income was 33 billion in 2016. That was a 27% increase from the previous year. It is not surprising that Istavia contributes to the cost of law enforcement at Leifs Station. [[The president calls.]] I'd love to hear the highest opinion. It belongs to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u27	A respectable president. First, I'd like to say that because of the strong people working there and their ideals, it's not a crisis of police law. This ensures that, under the circumstances, this will go incredibly well. I hope that the good harmony heard from this speaker's stand today will turn into the budget work, where priorities are being carried out. I haven't seen this discussion since she's been here. [[Up front.]] This is a necessary debate that cannot be emptied over two minutes. The police are one of the cornerstones of democracy, the basis for the vindication of the state of justice, and a powerful law enforcement is the prerequisite for the people to feel secure in their country. Clearly, the number of police officers needs to be increased because of a huge increase in jobs and the situation with the police. These issues need to be discussed as to what the police should be doing and what level of service we would like to have. Once we have agreed on a law enforcement program, we should know how much it costs. It's so much so that the sheriffs can figure out how to best care for the project. It is not enough to increase the number of officers and always just talk about the number of officers, each officer needs a set set of equipment. Officers need to get between positions and need personnel, etc. We in this room need to see how police situation has changed. The population has grown, the population has changed considerably, the number of our guests has multiplied, and this makes up all that police services are much more widely distributed throughout the country and with other needs, including the U.S.A. In public defences. There are a lot more people involved in active activities and the more things that come to the hands of the police. At the same time, the discussion of sexual misconduct, domestic violence, and manalism has opened up and raised these serious issues on the surface. Therefore, the police'work has been multiplied in this series of cases, and of course we want the police to take care of them so that the sufferers have confidence in the system. Then I haven't mentioned an increase in organized crime, money and economics, computer violations, and much more. The requirement for increased speech rate and higher quality of the laboratory has been increasing at the same time. [[The president calls.]] All of this requires increased quality of life, increased equipment and increased reflexes, change of procedure, and demand priorities. [[The president calls.]] The police work position must be adequate, so people are forced to do police work, but about 10% of police officers are sick at home every day.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u28	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson for starting a case, calling attention to the state of law enforcement, and taking it to heart. Councilmen of other people here have expressed concern. In recent years, despite the increase in population, tourism, and increasing traffic, the number of police has decreased. The types of crime have also changed, often more organized and more complex. The pressures of the police force are intense, and it is clear that there is no way to compromise, so priorities are needed, and much is waiting. It would not be surprising that the chronic illness is at its height. The minister of justice mentioned earlier is partly due to this pressure. If we look at the capital area, it is estimated that about 100 police officers will be needed, if necessary. In the capital area, there are only four police stations, on Nautilus, in Hafnarfjördur, Kópavogi, who also attend the Breinholti, i.e. Some 60,000 people, and in the pit of Grafar, who care for vast areas, Grafarvogi, Aargia, Northinnaholth, Grafarholth, Mosfellstown, Kjalarnesi, and Kjós. A vastly wide area. According to the information I have received, there are 25 police officers on duty in the area at any given moment, 25 in the entire capital area. This corresponds to one officer per eight thousand inhabitants, about twice the population of Seltianism and close to the population of Mosfells. In recent months, major burglary has been in the neighboring communities of Reykjavík, so much so that the town council of Kopavogs has specifically requested talks with the Ministry of Justice on the status of law enforcement in town. President. The law is one of the basics of society, and it is important that it is powerful, capable of doing its work, and visible. I have to say, I'm disappointed in the answers I get at the highest point. Minister of Justice has given here earlier. I wondered, " Is there no plan? ' Mr President, is there a plan?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u29	Mr. President. Thank you. Prime Minister for bringing attention to police affairs. I guess that's one of the most discussions I've had in this talk room outside of budget, i.e. ... thepolice. I'm totally saying it's not good enough yet. We often aim for things like before a crash, and we need to go further again. I've asked a lot of questions about elected police officers, equipment, and other things. And I believe we've gone too close to law enforcement in our time after the collapse. We know that the situation in the scattered areas is very different. Officers are sometimes alone on duty, the crossing is huge. They're on the stand-up and they're on the stand-up. Days are long. In the major capital area, such difficult situations as violence and such are being dealt with. Problems are not limited to pay issues. However, in view of what happened here, you may also wonder. paritaprevir It's Þóra Árnadóttir, a sex exchange in the police department. It's just not what young people are having, neither the salary nor the long shifts are made to keep them decent. To change this, we need to work hard. We've discussed these matters a lot. It's a feat that's been accomplished. There's been a lot of pressure on the police. I agree that the long - term illness must reflect some of the ways in which mankind has been born and the pressures of life increase. This is one of our basics, as we have seen here. We need to do better than we have ever done. We're going to graduate more. I am glad that the study went to university, even though it came to the point of criticism that the study should have continued to some extent for some additional years as it was. [[The president calls.]] I don't think it should have been like that, and we're doing it right by doing it this way. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister at the end of the report on what has been referred to, on electronic recording of the reporting speed of the state's calling and the duration of the call compared to the minimum police target for which the police are scheduled. I'd like to know if it's been done.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u30	Mr. President. In discussions about law enforcement, it will not be avoided to mention the transparency of police work and the rules it should be involved in doing what she does. It is also important that police work has a clear application of the rules and if they are not followed. At an open meeting of the police authorities and the Minister of Justice with the General Information and Education Committee during the days on the possession of police evidence, it was observed that many of the regulations of the police and the possession of the evidence are not readily available to the public. However, the police and ministers did not object that these rules would be published, so I want to use this opportunity to encourage ministers to publish these rules as well as any other authority on police activities as early as possible in the name of increased transparency. Secondly, I'd like to remind you of police operations independent. When police are financially successful for more years, there is an increased risk of failure and violations of traffic and rules, simply because of inhuman pressures. Then it is important that the police'own independent surveillance is in doubt. On the Web Committee on police surveillance, there is a great lack of information and no annual report, as the regulations on the committee indicate should be. It would be perfect for a minister to press after the information given to this committee so we can better understand if she can deliver police control over her head. In this context, I would like to remind you of a memo sent to the Ministry of Justice on February 15th. where a minister's reaction to severe police delinquency during the days was requested, it was found that police are neglecting sexual assaults against a child committed against a child who was committed to a child's health worker. I have heard now that the Ministry intends not to respond to this request until next week. Therefore, I would like to remind the Ministers of the General Assembly Act that the Ministry is obliged to respond as quickly as possible, but not later than a week after request. It's not a guide rule, it's not an equating rule of the administrative court, it's the law of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u31	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson for taking this case before and after. It is vital that we stand together at the great General Assembly and bring these things into the process that they are acceptable. So let me give a few examples of what the situation is like in the district of which I come out of the Northeast, four or five police officers are still missing to get the same number that was in 2007. Undeniably, nature and the like that we know in our own district call for greater manpower and law enforcement. All the high international surveillance that needs to be carried out in conjunction with increasing tourist currents will require increased police force. That's one of the things we call out for. We want to have access to good law enforcement, and it must also be supported. There's a lot of important things about the economy that's been done in the police department. She's done cutting down here and there. For example, one thing is that my knowledge is very special; at Sólveig, the police station has been shut down, but it still has a highly effective border control. Everywhere we go and where we know, e.g. Northeast monasteries, I take it special here, I want police, I want it to be visible, and I want it to be present. Finally, I'd like to say that it's our job not just to promote, but to promote law enforcement. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u32	A respectable president. Yes, there have certainly been many new projects on the table of the police during the past few years. A comparison is all hard. There are many more tourists, many more inhabitants of the country, especially in the capital area, and the police are busy escorting refugees from the country, and there are other tasks that call for more police officers. So we are now reviewing how many police officers have been and are now employed. We can also go further back, maybe two decades. In 1999 there were 317 police officers in the capital area, 64 of which were in Kópavogi and Hafnarfjördur. That is when the chief of police in Reykjavík needed 303 in Reykjavík alone to maintain the desired service of the city, as he put it. Now, nearly two decades later, but the latest number since February 1, 2016, is the total number of police in the entire capital area of 290 or less than nearly 20 years earlier, despite the increase of the population in the area, or about 50 thousand, not to mention the figures of foreign tourists that have increased at the same time. If embellishment has succeeded, such as the highest. The minister put it, I just ask: What standard? The drop in police departments? A report made by the then justice minister named the State of the police, and it was submitted in December 2012 to the council on page 8 of the president's permission: Since 2008 to 2011 the budget for police service has dropped by $2.8 billion, according to the index of September 2012. This is not including the special prosecutor's office. What's the situation today? V.E.G. Minister spoke of an increase of 2 billion. All right. That's a good start. What am I saying? Simply that it doesn't help to talk about the growth of the insides with so few things, and I want to encourage the highest force. Minister to work with us at the Gang of the People to further and increase the way of the police in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u33	Mr. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. a advocate of this discussion. Trust in the police is very important in our community, and fortunately the police in Iceland are secure. It is an important part of the police work that we need to be safe and that we can have a good community in this country. In Icelandic society, major changes have occurred. It is enough to mention, though not otherwise, the technological changes that have occurred in all of us. In a way that is different from the way it was a few years ago. There's a lot more specialised work to be needed. They need to deal with computer crime, organized crime. We are far more concerned with the mastery of sexual immorality and domestic violence. Police have to be in a position to do all that. Police are built on old ground. It is an institution that has been built over time on a particular system, a certain culture, and is quite male. But this does not make it necessary for us to make sure that there is enough resources and resources, sufficient expertise, special education, in order to carry out all these assignments. So I agree with what other senators have said here: We must work hard to ensure that the police continue to have the confidence they have and can fulfill the role we expect of them. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u34	Mr. President. I want to thank you for this discussion. I feel that there is a fair will in this room to promote law enforcement in the country, to promote the police. However, I was disappointed with the highest answers. A minister I feel will take this matter very lightly. I can say the highest. Part of what happened to all those people who were trying to get to the police. Ten percent of them suffer from stress. The only reason why we're in this situation is because it's a fear - inspiring situation, the only reason why things aren't happening is because we have extremely strong and good people who are working on these matters, who are brave and who don't save themselves. We saw it, for example. in a recent bus accident east of the country. There they didn't ask about what kind of police they were, just taking care of the situation while they needed it. Actually, I'd like to describe a surprising memory of the proselytism. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur's Árnason, who says that he did not receive support from members of Congress in a financial debate. Won't the Senator remember that he voted against the Central Party's well-developed proposals about 370 million to the police last year? Young man, he should remember this. Only 60 days ago. He can be sure, and the highest. The Minister of Justice, too, that if the Minister of Justice does not present himself with a plan for building and promoting police in the country, the Central Party will do so. I can hear no more in the reserved members of the hall today than that there will be a wide convergence that it will be done. And talking about money. We are talking about the need for a billion people in the capital area to promote law enforcement. A government government that can afford to sell banks for nothing, which costs billions of dollars to people of the country, can afford it. [[The president calls.]] She's got money. She can afford to shoot like a billion or two into the law enforcement cases in her country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u35	A respectable president. There have been numbers on the number of policemen, and they are very concerned about raising that number. I'll agree with that. It is necessary to increase the number of policemen, especially in the capital area, in Southnes associated with the airport, and in part in the Southland, especially because of the number of tourists. I'd like to mention that the 2018 budget was 400 million. K. financial contributions made for the past few years are permanent. Seventeen figures are expected for that amount. It is marked with 17 earmarks. Besides, the budget is about 237 million. K. a donation solely to the treatment of sexual fractures in the system of justice, which has been scheduled for a long time, and I specifically introduced here. Because of what? An apocalyptic noted that it was some sort of rubber check that was not required in the laws of the law, which are closer to one another, certainly in financial terms. Because money will be spent to 15 standards for all the police services, or six or seven standards for the police in the capital area. It is proper to keep that in mind, and these matters must not be discussed as if nothing is being done or that no one is interested in. I think everyone in this room would agree to increase the number of police officers, improve the interests of cops, increase their instruments, especially their cars. I have had in particular a change in arrangements for police cars, which now has a special bank. I'm interested in increasing the variety there and making the business more practical. The border defense is extremely important. I've put it on schedule and put it first for the next semester, next weeks and months, to increase the number and struggle with the border guard, both with the border guard and with the Cheflavík police. And then I want to mention what the police themselves tell me, that it's not just about crowns, it's also about engineering and planning and making the best use of the crown. [[The president calls.]] That's exactly what I and the police agree and agree to make a success of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u36	A respectable president. I recommend a synopsis on international flights through Hornafjörður Airport. Besides me, there are the traders to Konráðsdóttir Konásdóttsdótttir, Trausti Trari Guðmundsson, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Páll Magnússon, Smári Mccarthy, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gunsdotsdotsótir, Hjaltason Gautiçi and Birgir Þórarinsson. The suggestion reads: The General concluded to hide transport and local government officials from checking to see if the Hornaffield is sufficient equipment and facilities for international flights with smaller passenger planes and planes on a ferry flight now authorized to fly the course. This proposal has been moved several times before and is now reassigned. The Hornground airport plays an important role in the transport system of the country. It is important to examine the ongoing operations and development of the region for the benefit of the local people and their professional life. Clearly, the location of the field affords a wide range of opportunities for increased travel, especially following the development of Lake Bay National Park. To that end, it is necessary to examine the availability of adequate equipment and facilities for international flights. In January 2008, the Air Force worked on the request of rural and other stakeholders to make the airports at Isafjordur, the Western Islands, and the Cape on international airports, what measures would be needed to take to make this possible, and what cost of such changes might be. The report says that improvements in safety and monitoring factors at the requested airports will have to be made so that smaller air planes can be received in international flights and planes on the ferry. I'd like to stress that my engine is being talked about. We're not talking about a large international airport, so we're clear. The report evaluates the potential and costability of these measures, but there are three main measures to be taken into consideration. A slight change must be made in Annex 1 to the November Regulation. 53/2003 and add Hornground airport to the list of defined border stations. In addition, the requirements for Regulation No. 464/2007 on airports due to human activities and because of the security and airport cards and the conditions of Regulation No. 985/2011 on air protection. According to Article 5. Regulation No. 464/2007 will fall under the category I in the sense of Regulation. The Hornground Airport now falls under the category of registered landing sites. When an airport is removed from the landing site to plan an airport in category I and defined as an international airport, the regulations of the above regulations have a primary impact on costs. Qualifications for Regulation No. 464/2007 for human activities includes largely the stock cost for workers, such as security sites. Costs due to the required regulations No. 464/2007 for quality and security management systems and airport cards comes from staff to work on the projects - and I think we are happy to get more projects out of the country - both on the field itself and in the central Istavia departments. Source costs of the requirements set out in Regulation No. 985/2011 is for arms search tools, for example, changes in facilities, etc. In addition, as a result of additional assistance in the search for weapons and management for air protection at the airport itself as well as in the central departments of Istavia. At Parliamentary resolution of a four-year transport program for 2015-2018, No. 65/145, says that the Horn of the Ground Airport over the period receives a total of 139 million. K. for maintenance and regular renewal of equipment. In the treatment of the 145th legislation of the 145th legislation, a greater part of the European Commission's Environment and Transport Committee was needed to strengthen national flights, not only the ways that were already strengthened, but other ways to reduce prices and increase the number of trips. It follows that as we find more work and additional uses for airports like Hornafground Airports, their economy is growing. Made some more part to 300 billion. K. starting progress in 2018 is helping to strengthen the position of air transport as part of the public transport system. In that case, the majority of the items were considered worthy of checking the use of smaller machines on international flights to land, including land use. On the Hornfjord. This could help a lot with the distribution of tourists, as well as reduce the pressures at Keflavík Airport and increase international security. It should be noted that the Horn of Earth's Airport is very well located for aircraft to come across the sea and have to land there; otherwise, they must fly to Cheflavík, or cross the highlands to Eglilggis under difficult conditions. We also see that there are a great deal of environmental tracks that have to fly longer distances than necessary, but there are cases of aircraft flying to Keflavík and Eglíli, and then back to Hornfjörður after they have been enrolled into the country. There has to be a lot of economic and environmental problems, and it does not work out our goal to distribute tourists around the country as we all want, that I think. In spite of the above - mentioned facts, inhabitants of the Parliament feel that this agreement is important that the Hornground airport will be strengthened further and emphasised on whether smaller aircraft in international airports will be allowed to land on the Hornfjord, such as the above - mentioned opinion of more parts of the Environment and Transport Committee. Transporters stress the importance of the initial attack on the work to further trust in the Hornfjord and the area and contribute to further development and development of the Lake Earth. I hope the proposal is well discussed at the council and a lot of resources, and the same as the Environment and Transport Committee. There I look forward to this discussion. Hopefully, the proposal will finally succeed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u37	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a proposal for a hearing of international flights through the Hornground Airport. First thing I want to do is thank you for your background, boy. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason, prehistoric in this case, and one of the missionaries, Konráðsdóttir Brá the Councillord, who was my guardian when she made the suggestion, that's why I'm not in it. I thought it was a little bit sad, but that's the rules. Of course, all of us support this matter, council members of the South. As mentioned earlier, this case has been delivered several times, and hopefully it will get a walk. This is supported by special discussions in the preceding part of the program at the top of the police issue. Minister of Justice Sigríður Á. Andersen said the police border control should be reinforced. This is one reason why this matter is being fulfilled. As noted in the case of an executive, this is also designed to further trust in employment in the Horni and the area and contribute to further building up the growth of Lakes earth's habitats and tourism in southern and South Eastern countries, which is enormously high. There are quite more rooms in this country than all the residents in this country do. I don't think it's like that in many places. The part about public transportation is very important. It's a long way back to the corner. We know it's the senators who go there several times a year. Therefore, it is very important to build up and strengthen such a pattern of air travel, the regular plan of flight so that it will benefit the public and the commercial community more fully as well as the people on the weekends. I would like to mention that in the last few months and perhaps years, there has been a discussion of the Scottish route referred to as the East Bridge, the Eastern European Union. In fact, more national groups have been involved in this discussion. Where they are talking about a discount that Scots have given to people in the northlands of Scotland. These discount elections are made so that citizens with legal homes in place get special payoffs to fly from home to the capital to use medical services, to keep in touch with their families, and to attend a long - distance service that requires tremendous effort. I know that suggestion, this Scottish route or comparable means of ensuring a more inexpensive flight rate for the population in the country, is extremely important. I often find it when I arrive at Hornfjörður how much this flight is a major factor in life there and what it means to the people at the Cape and in the rural communities around it so much that it will come back to order. There were ideas of even reducing the airport to the Cape. We naturally warn that such ideas will come true. This cannot happen at all. The airport needs to be fortified, as the Senate resolution proposal assumes. It is an ideal opportunity for smaller and medium - sized aircraft to fly from country to country in private or with passengers to land there in this fine place, as shown by the case of an authority. I strongly emphasize it, along with the movers, that it will be through now and that this case will be realized, hopefully by the next budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u38	Mr. President. First thing I want to do is thank you for your background, boy. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason, for this excellent suggestion. I would also like to agree with that as well. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson said here, this is a very important case, and it is of particular importance to the people of the Horn family, as well as to the whole country, since air travel in the country is a very important means of transportation. Of course, in this regard it should be noted that if used to a greater extent, air travel would bring relief on the highways of the country. It is vital to reduce these pressures because we know that, unfortunately, the situation is not good enough, and construction of the highway system takes a long time and is costly. At the same time, we can build up at airports such as Hornfjords with relatively small costs compared to the construction of the highway system. But there is something more interesting about this subject, there has now been more than a new technology in these processes, a global GPS approach, which is much simpler and less expensive than the technology used. For example, a pilot who arrives at a flight where this new technology exists can light track lights and so on from the plane. It is also important in this context and gives increased hopes that international flight will be adopted by the Hornground Airport. The definition should also be considered in this context. As far as the Hornground Airport is concerned, the tarnation we know from the road system here is on the runway. But this definition has caused misunderstandings abroad. They're talking about it being really a malar airport. This should be considered, for the use of clothing has brought good results. I'd also like to mention in this discussion that it's very important that we find a flat on subsidizing air travel. It's too expensive to fly within the country. We know that. I mentioned it in this chair yesterday when I spoke of a flight trip to the Western Islands, that the money from Reykjavík to the Western Islands, and back is at 32.800. It's just a long way to Spain from the Chefavour Airport. Everyone sees it's very important to pay the fare. We see that subsidies in the public transportation system, such as in bus safety, have given us good results. The ticket is supplied up to 85%. Let's keep in mind, so I'm going back to the Western Islands to pick up the 32.800 bucks. Takes the sum of the state's budget at 15,400 kr. In the form of various taxes and taxes. Each person sees that 40% of the tax - related stress on the pay will greatly reduce the interest of people in traveling by this means. It's urgent to put on stitches. I'm here to celebrate this proposal, and I hope she gets a walk because it's an important matter, and it's important to the area, and it's a matter of hospital flights, and it's a matter of general flying in the area. It is also safe to mention that it would not also be impossible to find ways to improve the level of airports at a local church monasteries and to travel to the Morry Valley. So I'm just starting to make a little bit of a Viking in Snow Valley is an airport that can be very effective, for example. on a nature problem. We know that the Viking community in the Valley of Moriscos lives on the possibility of Kate's eruption, and people may have to leave their homes very soon. It could lead to the end of the road. Then the airport would be a lot of security. I think it's a reasonable investment, not so costly. I understand that it costs about 160 million to place a fence to an airport like Vicodin, as well as a church gang. This is not much of a sum compared to the structure needed to take place in the transport system. However, there is a quick way to improve transportation to the areas, both in the local community - free and in the Viking Valley, for example. If this proposal becomes reality and becomes a success of track and funding, it will be the beginning of more use of air travel in this area, in the South Sea, and also in the whole country. Finally, Mr. President, I thank you for your excellent discussion, and I hope that the proposal will have a course.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u39	A respectable president. I recommend here for a translucency modification of the Management News and a Law Code. There is a change in page 7. which is overall with a new wording with the heading: The political and law - based version of a newspaper. Government and law-enforcement journals should be published and distributed electronically. This is a very similar suggestion, and much of this article has not been changed. Still, important things are presented only in terms of costs of access to these publications. ▪ In an electronic version, the safety and reliability of published information must be ensured and maintained permanently and the open and accessible data format of the publication. There's an add-on here with the data format. The scientific version of a law-engineering form should be performed in such a way as technically available to prevent the development and integration of published personal information. To an electronic version please refer to version date. The version of the Government and the Law Guidebook should be adopted so that most people are benefited with hardware and software. To those wishing to buy a Government News or a printed paper, or to be sent to pay the cost of their printing and delivery, each one of them should receive a unique issue of the magazine. It's similar to what used to be. Here's an extra, the cost of an electronic version is actually taken out. A law-enforcement and law-enforcement sheet shall be available in an electronic way in an open data port, e.g. open.is. The minister of the Regulation further measures in terms of the electronic version of the Management Board and the Law Guide, including data security, preservation of data and personal protection. In other words, it is supposed to be distributed electronically, that there will be non-employable access to electronic publications, that everything published in these publications should be available in a computer-created way, and an open data format should be available on an open data alert. The difference is that it's not a pdf file or something like that which is a little hard for computers to read. The suggestion is that computers can read text published in a Law Display and Government News, not just for human eyes. It is very important for automatic updates when something has been changed. Then the computer can watch for us. This will help us to see much better when individual articles change, or when there are improvements and announcements, than with the present system. This is not really such a complex change, or should not be. It resembles a synonym which has already been agreed on the publication of law, bill, projector, Senate resolution and inquiry at the General Assembly, so it actually ends that process. Since the law has been published and approved by everything published in the Government News and a Law Code, there is really the same access to the subject as to the documents that we should have on computerized form in the General Assembly. I hope that the bill will get a good course on a committee and that doesn't involve much cost. There is, of course, some cost to install the system or process, but in the long run, it is definitely saving where you can do so much more with this information when computers can add these texts and help you to track what is going on in the field of these publications.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u40	A respectable president. The bill was submitted to the 144th legislature, then issue 259, and the 145th legislature, including 259. Unfortunately, this is now the 165, not 259 issue. Maybe I should have waited for this to happen. It would have been beautiful. But this is a very important matter. Based on the discussion of society in the past few weeks and months, and before election, I also feel that this is a mental health matter. It is a measure of stress and stress that we live in today's society, where hours have become somewhat different in many people than they used to be. We are constantly connected with smart devices and are even much more at work than we used to be. At the end of work hours, the supposed one, we are still at work. We may look at e - mails, even answers, and we are actually doing things that are not listed in our hours. Since the bill was not decommissioned, it is presented again as unchanged, but with only a more detailed report, with comments in the reviews and things that have happened in the community regarding short working hours, better results are made. The bill includes the change that there should be no more than 35 day hours to work in the day - to - day work period on weekdays and typically 7 hours per day from Monday to Friday. Now I need to understand more clearly what this means. Since the bill was presented, comments have been made that there may be a need to consider how parity is affected. The 40 - hour work week's law has to do with what's presented here. The idea of the bill is not to shorten work time and raise taxation at the same time. The bill only changes how many hours a day are spent working. Otherwise, if a person continues to work for 40 hours a week after the change, the person will be paid five hours of overtime instead of five hours of work, which would increase in pay compared to the contracts employed at the time of the job. - In other words, it's not a requirement to raise pay against abbreviated workweek, just specify how many hours of work are every day to be absolutely clear. Remuneration agreements will remain in the hands of employee and professional drivers. The only change the council makes is how many hours a day work. As a result, we may need to examine just the effect of 8th degree. The law under here has but it says that changes in working hours will not affect your salary. This may vary depending on whether it is a tax work or a month's work or other work. I guess there'll be a better examination of the Committee. Despite the drop in job activities in recent years, the average workweek in Iceland is about 40 hours. The OECD reports measuring the balance between work and leisure time, such a period of privacy, show that Iceland is getting very bad out of 33 countries when it comes to a period of 38 hours, where men work longer. Iceland then has a 34th grade for leisure time, which is somewhat equal between the sexes. This is very interesting. Men and women have as much leisure time as they do in spite of much more overtime work. The reason is obvious. Women are making use of what else would be their free time in other activities that are not considered a vacation time, nor will they pay. It is very important here to consider the pay equals of the sexes. However, the number of OECD before 2016, the average annual work hours, is Iceland's 25th place, with 1,883 hours at 1,363 hours in Germany, where the work hours are measured, and 1,410 in Denmark, which have the secondest working hours. However, the figures are not fully comparable between countries. There are several factors regarding rest and rest periods. Yet, they are comparable for the same country from year to year. This will help you to see how your country's situation changes with regard to other countries and to monitor average hours between years of work. For example, the figures for Iceland show the effects of unemployment during the collapses and how the average number of hours grows again. It is difficult to compare the number of hours between countries for various reasons, but OECD data are still the best we have. When the number of hours and balances between work and leisure time in Iceland are compared to conditions in other countries, there is clear evidence of a bad situation in Iceland. Although the data are not very well-controlled, these are the best data we have, and they indicate that Iceland's work-time situation is very bad. A little later on, that's all. There are more data I'm going to review. But I'm gonna start with the production. Iceland's production is below the average OECD-land average despite a long day's work and privacy rate is much worse than in countries with more production than Iceland does. This is despite the fact that Iceland is rich in resources. In France, where the workweek has been 35 hours since 2000, production is considerably higher than in Iceland, and the country is much higher in regard for balance between work and leisure time. Denmark, Spain, Belgium, the Netherlands, and Norway are at the top of this list. In these countries, work time is shorter than in Iceland, produce more and more pay is paid except perhaps in Spain. True, it was reviewed this morning on a financial committee that we have quite a salary if we believe they're in foreign currency. Yet, even so, it is very expensive to be in Iceland, so while we speak extensively in this regard, the level of money is not necessarily high enough, since there are much cheaper things in the countries around us. This is because no more produce or higher salary can be explained by a long day's work. On the contrary, there is evidence that shorter working days lead to greater production and increased quality of life. Again: More about it only later. I just want to talk about the reason for this change isn't just ambiguous. We're not always making decisions just because of money-wise economists, what gives away a little more money. At times, we too need to take into account our life course. Then I return to the mental disorders I discussed at the outset. That standard counts, too. The cost of mental health, that coin, is often not included in interest. They would benefit better if this stress did not exist or if he took precautions. We went over it earlier at this council. What are the numbers there? The bill has already received reviews. There were reviews at the 145th legion. Three members opposed the bill's approval. It was Iceland's Business Council, Business Association, and Business Association, mainly with the argument that in some way the Allied Council would be meddling in the right of professionals and employees to negotiate their purchases and terms. What the bill does is just to define how many hours a day and a total a week. Job drivers and employees still have the right to negotiate their purchases and quality work hours. It is also claimed that the need for abbreviated weeks of work has not been prominent in union requirements. However, ASI has reported this, at least at the Board of Directors meeting, that this contract is always the first thing the job drivers make out of the table. So there is little point in keeping that requirement to stress. As a result, it should be reasonable for the case to come to Generalis. However, it was noted that in recent news reports, the employment community is in favor of a shortened workweek. However, they were in favor of simply shortening the overtime hours, which may be obvious in their context, since these are more expensive hours of work than the day's work. I expect a more positive account of the Association of Employment, even though they stress the reduction of the overtime hours, which this bill would even increase if people continue to work as long hours; that we agree that they need to reduce the total working hours, regardless of whether we reduce the number of day - to - day work hours or overtime. It comes out on one for the working man, to work fewer hours, regardless of whether they're overtime or day - to - day jobs. Unremarkable comments were received from the Allied Union of Iceland and the League of Colleges. It spoke of experimental projects that were being carried out and a committee working to reevaluate the work period rules. A few reports have now been published indicating that the research projects are successful and have a positive effect on the work and job. For example, this resulted in a reduction in illness, the attitudes of employees toward employment coordination, and the quality of personal life became much more positive, and the quality of work increased. There were a lot more positive comments. Those who supported the bill were the Children's Directorates, the Bank of Environment of Iceland, the Association of Psoriasis and Executing Patients, the National Rights Office of Iceland, the European Women's Women's Rights Society, the Alliance of Staff and Towns, an Ecosystem of Parents in Reykjavík and Childhood. The bill means that general work time is reduced by an hour a day, or from eight hours to seven hours. The aim of the change is not to be cut off from abbreviated dayday, and workday is not expected to be automatically reduced by this change. These two aspects need to be considered in context. Workaholics agree on the length of hours and salary between employers and recruiters. An article in the law is about a 40 - hour work week in which a general contract between total organizations can be taken from the law about 40 hours of work which is unchanged. This puts a standard in that agreement. All these laws do is define a number of hours of work. Otherwise, an employee who continues to work eight hours a day should raise his salary by about 15 minutes'work. This varies according to the calculations of the individual collective agreement. Laws about 40 hours of work week were passed in 1971, remember that number. But it was the first time in 2012 that the average workweek was 40 hours. In 1971 the change returned to a very positive economy, the amount of income in a person averaged up to 4◯5% per year (except one year), the rate of production per worktime increased by 20% over time, and the annual work time decreased over the period by 5%. It's in Conference-Board. Economy database. The aim of this adjustment is to increase the progressive production and quality of life of employers in Iceland by paying abbreviated week of work. Although some may imagine that fewer hours of work must mean less production, I intend to cover later, but as OECD reports have shown, not necessarily with longer work hours and more productions. Life's quality of life is not just a measure of interest, though I do not minimize that instrument at all. This change is, in fact, an incentive for efficiency, a motivation for competitiveness. To reduce the number of day - to - day jobs without screwing up the scale is, in fact, a raise if people continue to work on the same number of hours. This may encourage them to become more practical and more efficient at the same time as they gradually reduce their job hours. It is not meant to manually control this or to take a hand brake turn and shorten the time to 35, but it is thought to be a step-by-step change in collective agreements that will be processed over the next few years. But this is the initiative that we take by setting a standard. Based on the data I'm referring to a little later, the target should in fact be still lower. But we may take this step first and examine the results. Now I'm just gonna talk about comparing more data with a lot of hours. The International Labour Organization has information that the Senate's espionage put together for me, and it did very well. These include the northern countries, Finland, Iceland, Denmark, Norway, and Sweden, the average work schedule employed by a qualified man in 2016. It is important to stress that this is, as the joint's name is in the English language at work, i.e. Rest time isn't in the room as I get what I get best. It shows that Denmark has an average of 34 hours of work; 85% of working hours in Iceland. There are 36 people in Finland. In Iceland it's 40. It fits according to the Haustabian statistics that will probably come from there. Norway has 35 and Sweden has 36. All the northern nations that we regularly apply to are during this very time period, some 35 hours. That must be our goal too. On OECD's website are these figures that I mentioned earlier with my total hours of work over the year. There we find 1,410 hours, Finland 1,653, Iceland 1,883, Norway 1,424 and Sweden 1,621. If we aim for 26 work weeks per year, based on the OECD data, we will have working hours per week as follows: Denmark 30.62 hours, that is, indeed, less than the data of the International Employment Agency; Finland has 35.9, which is 0.1 hours. less than in the rest of the data; Iceland has 40.9, a little higher; Norway has 31 hours, apparently less, and Sweden has 35.2 hours similar. So these two databases prove very similar to Iceland's situation, i.e. Is it possible to find more hours of work, as we should know and accept? Now it is unavoidable to talk only about the so - called 8-8-8 substitution on which the current labour market model is based. Eight hours at work, eight hours in life, family and hobbies, and then eight hours at rest. But this idea came from Robert Owen in 1817, 201 years ago. Then he made this slogan: eight hours at work, eight hours at rest, and eight hours in life, if I mean it freely. Let's just review how these eight hours have since become reality in the countries around us. Let's start with one thing. The first country to take up eight hours of work was Uruguay. That's not exactly close to us. It was 1915, November 17th. In the United Kingdom, in a factory decree, 1833 defined children aged 93/413 years to be allowed to work no more than eight hours. In Belgium there was an eight - hour workday of 1924. In France it was 1919. In Germany, 1918. - I'm working on some of the data I found at Wikipedia, since it's all taken care of. - Portugal in 1919. In Russia, 1917. In Spain, 1919. Iceland, 1971. About 50 years later. We're a little behind. Another thing I have mentioned is this balance between life and work, which was first used in Britain in the late 1970's and in the United States in 1986. It is about visiting the leisure time that people have between themselves and their friends, relatives, interests, and so forth, and what they are working on. As I noted earlier, we are among the lowest seats on the OECD list. It should arouse us from a wicked dream. If our goal in education is to include the average OECD and then the average North countries, we should definitely aim to include it in employment markets as well. That number, number 34, is horrible, in one word. Again, I mention that much of the mental health problem referred to here is stress - related. We must seriously examine this connection and the situation in which we are in it. An interesting study was conducted in the 1950's, where researchers were surveyed. It was conducted in Illinois Institute of Technology, or IT, where psychology Raymond Raymond Van Seltz and William Kerr examined the work of their colleagues. They compared their hours of work with the articles they published. This core study, however, has been repeated quite frequently and shows very similar lines. People expected that there was simply a straight line between the more hours you spent in the work, the more articles you would publish. Straight line, one hour more, one branch more, something like that. But it wasn't like that. The data showed that the line was shaped like M. At first, there was a high rate of production, which is, of course, normal. Working one or two hours, if you work according to the linear idea, you're working twice as hard. But the increase in production stopped between 10 and 20 hours a week. Then she went down. Reduced production as a result. Scientists who had 25 hours at work had as much production per hour as those with five hours a week. Those who spent 35 hours a week, the criteria for this adjustment, were actually only half, not double, with 50%, greater production than those who worked 20 hours a week. This ended because we had 60+ hours a week, it was the least product. A recent article from the Humvee, which changed to six hours a day, and various articles recently published show that the brain, in ideological work, has tolerance over six hours. Six hours, even four, is something that can be a maximal tolerance, even working for two cycles or another. But when we make decisions as to how work time is being done, we look at all too little on these sciences. The result was that workers had been able to use shorter hours of work to get more involved with their children and to have a more active share in raising them - a much more enjoyable family life, more quality time with their family. There was a 23% higher production rate. With a two-hour shorter day of work. 44% fewer days of illness, I'm just going to remind you again of my mental health, that's no small thing. And 100% of the staff's pleasure, all of them, every one of them. There was more time for personal study and for career development. People feel their own drive at work, can use extra moments to satisfy their curiosity and inquiring interests, read and attended studies, engage in in in in educational and life - giving personal study. It has a positive effect on a person's life and provides a more suitable active force. And people simply have time to care for themselves. We have this large, long - term world where people often find it hard to find time for themselves, their interests, their families. When work day is over, it's only shopping, cooking meals, gearing for bedtime, and then throwing yourself into a sofa and perhaps even getting to watch some TV show. In our case, it would likely be to read a committee opinion or a memo for the next day. This bill doesn't affect us here at the council. There's nothing to do with a general day of work here. But this increased time to pursue a life that should have a profound effect, on the mental health of those who are unjust in a practical way. These wicked things are vital for our attention. I believe the General is the best place to do it at the moment, to take these policies, to work hard to reduce the number of hours that are also an incentive for promotion, or economic management. In the coming years, we will see that technological development results in bringing us more and more personal life; that is what the industrialisation and now the technicalisation will bring us back; to do our work for us so that we can focus on our own interests. They are also practical; art, culture, entertainment, and whatever it is that we are considering to do on our own time. Then we will be able to control it rather than be under this domain empire, to be committed to the pay label in order to keep in and out of it. It brings to mind the civil pay talk that has been increasing in recent years. This is also a step in less demands on people's work, their commitments to life. Don't forget that in this 8-8-8-eight-change, it's very strange that the eight hours we give to work, which is really not part of our life, are the hours we go to after rest. It's our most powerful hours. With eight hours left, we're out of power. Then we still have family, kids, lives, interests, etc. It's interesting to think about that exchange. Nor is it fair, though it may sound reasonable: 8-8-8-8, go evenly, but it's not. I hope the council is about to take this discussion seriously. The idea of a controversial bill is shortened to seven hours a day, but the workweek should actually be shorter. I suggest this first step. I suggest that the council take this matter a little bit seriously. Because it has to do with so many other problems. Let's not lose this. Let's just follow through.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u41	Mr. President. I would like to make a recommendation for a hearing on behalf of the deputy council of the left green son of Bjarni Jónsson, who came in here as a deputy for my years' sake of my absence. The proposal for practical research on construction of Forest Coast Road is proposed. The candidate for the proposal is Bjarni Jónsson, a deputy of the left green in the northwestern district. It reads: The General concluded to hide transport and local government ministers in part that there will be a wide range of practical checks on the construction of the Forest Coastway on the north of Snæfells, between the Padding Valley and the Stykisholm, as a whole. This study will take into account the social and consistent effects of thus extending transport between the settlements of northern Snæfells, through Dali, in the Rhool Bay, the southern West, and the north on the Coast. Special attention should be given to strengthening the area as one job and service area, building tourism and road safety. The secretary will submit the results of the economic study for the General Assembly and the cost plan for building the building project at the latest of September 15, 2018. The draft proposal is included in the report. A study of an accident rate in 2007/2010 under the direction of Þóroddur Bjarnason found that the Forest Coast Road was one of the three most dangerous roads in the country. There is no reason to believe that this situation has changed, since the news of traffic accidents on this road is often difficult to deal with, realizing that he does not live under the road in which it is nor is his purpose to form a close link between the inhabited areas where it lies. In Parliamentary Reconception No. 65/145, about a four - year transport program for 2015-2018, is designed for 125 million. K. in the current year to reform the Forest Coast Road. In proposals for the interpretation of the transport program for 2015-226, which was submitted to the 145th legislature but was not approved, there is a need for implementation on Skönarves Road approved for a total of 2.2 billion dollars. to build up the road for the duration of the programme. Maintenance and improvements in this road have virtually not been made in recent years and decades, and little attention has been given to the importance of communication between urban areas and the growth of tourism and trade in these areas. The whole road is in low ground along the sea, and there is no mountain road to go that is the first to be blocked by the weather and snow. Thus, it would be effortless to maintain the built - up road of wood all year long. The plans to finance the construction of the Forest Coast are required to no longer be an accident trap and to receive its transport role. Tracks are intimidated when considering the facts of the past few years in terms of the follow-up of the approved transport programmes. With the expansion of the migration of northern Snæfells and the interior of the British world, new opportunities open up to a variety of cooperations and improved services, such as health and education. As is the case today, the inhabitants of these settlements, which will be linked together with a well - built road through Forest Coasts, are most likely to travel long distances to cross areas, although it is possible to get through the rough road of the year. These settlements are expected to fight in a professional and local way. In view of increased tourism, the area is rich in varied nature, history, and cultural traditions that could support the structure of tourism if transportation was readily available. This synonym is aimed at promoting the development of this important transport structure as soon as possible. This is especially so by carefully examining the importance of such improvements and by drawing closer to the forwarding of these roads. I can agree with this as an executive in the case I speak on behalf of Bjarni Jónsson, a deputy of the left green in the Northeast standard, that indeed it is needed not just for this section but for so many roads in the country that we should have made practical consideration of from so many other viewpoints than the number of cars or traffic weights in the region, because, unfortunately, there are all too many parts of the country that we're going to end up in the country. And it has been called on to bring about a fast - moving process. I have high hopes that a new process of transportation will result in reflecting the much cumulative need that is in building the country far and wide, as well as in the construction and construction of a tunnel. We just can't stay in the place where some areas of the country are far behind and then say, decades later, in transport between jobs and territories where people are confident that they will be able to make sure of their journeys, and a lot of things can really be one job area and we've united inside the administration. Health agencies have been expanding their districts, the police, the county, we know all of this. But it has been a boat, and it is reflected in the fact that good transport must be within the country. There's really something to be done about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u42	A respectable president. I'm celebrating this Senate resolution on the practicality consideration of the construction of Forest Coast Road. It is a long, difficult road from a safe point of view, rather belonging to the past, and it paints the next romantic picture of the Land Rovers that traveled the country at the speed of the snail, with only words for the summer months. But from that vision. The discussion might also give an idea of more than highway 1 in the country. We'd like to spread more tourist currents across the country, but how well we'd like to develop that idea is always the transport network that becomes the main bottleneck in those goals. Enlargement of the defined ringways is one idea. Round 2 would be defined as the Snæfells Syndrome and September 3 on the Westfjords. They'd be so connected with round roads 1. There would be a round road that would be the main theme of the region and would have to be handled according to it all around. The areas in which some areas are built would be subject to environmental protection in the sector and with such projects would be recognized by the tourist sector in accordance with the ringway 1. Other employment practices would improve the quality of transportation. We need to get out of the discussion about having a Band-Aid around the country and for example. This section, which is a very important and extensive means of transportation in all of this area, the Snæfells Syndrome. Looking forward to the future, we need to reevaluate these key paths. During this decade, the traffic rate has changed dramatically, and there have been no programs to predict it. At the same time as I welcome the proposal, I would also like to suggest that such roads, which are recognized as part of the Snæfells'main transport system.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u43	Mr. President. I can totally agree with the wish that roads will be redefined and that it is time to stress off off the usual highways, highways 1, other areas in the same way. Of course, it's only very good, and that's how a transport strategy should be developed and where professionals are involved in roadmaking, priorities, and drawing it into the modern world, and doing so. I have to say, I don't feel that I have enough access to the Agency's development of transport plans, unfortunately. Somehow I've experienced the years I've been here at the council that, when a transport program arrives, the lines have been laid, rather than that Congress officials can affect the priorities of projects more than today. I would like to see some changes in this with all due respect for all the professionals in Vega and those who come to that work within the Ministry. This discussion must be discussed, I think, also with democratic elected agents. There are some different attitudes, there are other requirements, both of them professionally, e.g. Travel and employment areas are much bigger. The government has been changing, and humans have to apply a lot of things for longer periods of time and differently. I feel that members of Congress are expected to achieve the implementation of transport programmes from all groups much earlier than today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u44	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Lilja Electrical Rafney Magnúsdóttir for delivering this synoptic proposal on the Forest Coast. I find that very happy because this has been under discussion for many years. This road is very necessary on the Snæfellsnes, into the Valley, and north. There has been a tremendous increase in traffic over this road, especially in recent years with the growth of tourists. They're coming in a lot. You can see that tourists are naturally using these GPS devices, when they're coming west and south, and going west on the pine, and more often than not exactly this way. There's been an increase in accidents. It's a really big bottleneck, that way through the Forest Coast. The roads in Dalla, Dalas County, are about 70% malar roads; only about 30% of roads have bound stretches in that area. This is a very large area, perhaps not large, and a great need to fix it. I cut it down in the conclusion of a talk. After reading the text, a senator did not feel strongly that it would soon be on the program. I just hope I haven't heard right. I'd like to ask the senator about that. Does the senator believe that this will soon take place?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u45	Mr. President. Must not be optimistic, is it not what everyone wants to go along with? Of course, I would like to have this council-sounding motion on this particular course in a practical, well - thought - out, and to be reviewed by the views that a messenger highlights in this fine report. But I want to take it even further. There are roads far and wide around the country that have become the submarines of modern society in the 21st century. We can take it to ourselves, all of us in here and the members of the previous election season, that it is not in order. No one should be hanged for that in particular. It just hasn't been okay. We've got to get it together. We're getting a hold of ourselves, for example. Capacity of high-speed connections. We're taking care of the structure of transport systems and the restoration of the transport systems in the country and increasing the involvement of land cables in these materials. It's just that the road system isn't working. Of course, there has become a great need for maintenance of many roads from the capital area here. It requires a lot of money. Not to be forgotten, though, that these roads - these roads - are rough roads with deep holes. As a senator who was here during the last or last term, these are worse roads than those in the Caucasus Mountains. It's just that way. I think all of us, wherever we stand, should look at these roads and bring them up to the 21st century and priorities in their behalf, along with what we need to strengthen our transport system from the capital area and double roads like the Westland road and the Southland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u46	V.E.G. President. Yeah, I totally agree. A senator in that the roads of the country are well beyond the last day of sales. It's really amazing to witness the land in which we live. I've had that theory, and maybe more government policy over the past few years has been to run a government fund with pitchless funds and resources, that's been very much focused on what's really the best thing to do, but with it, like transportation, it's going down. Instead, we need to spit in our hands and straighten out the transportation issues. These are the living things of the land around the country. If we're thinking about living in the country, the number one transport is for transport. I say once again, I celebrate this council mishap. Hopefully, she is going to push the issue into action. That's where we'll set up a transport plan for the next five years. We received sad news that it will not be expected until autumn. It's a little strange that she doesn't show up right now. You might think that the reason is that local elections are in spring, but hopefully that's not the right conclusion for me. One last question? I don't know, it's kind of the same question I had earlier. I'm just gonna call it a day and thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u47	Mr. President. It has been called for a transport program in this hall and is normal for it to be done. I say for my part that I'd rather see that the process of transportation is well worked and that the priorities of the country need remain wide and wide, even if it comes up later, and that it will be financed. All too often, we have been given transportation plans that have not since been financed. [[Up front.]] Budget plan is in progress. Of course, they need to be reflected in a financial program. Then there's still budgeted here at the council. Although financial programs are being developed at regular intervals, we still have budgets here. We need to make it reflect the design and will it shows. I trust all of us will contribute to this transport strategy reflecting the great need that exists in the country's infrastructure. There's talk of change at the government fund. In transport and infrastructure, we are looking forward to investments that will last for decades. This is not a short-term arrangement. We're talking about an investment for the next few generations, so we have to start spitting in our hands. I'm going to do what I can to fight for a good transport plan to come up here and it's going to be funded for financial support. I trust that all members of the council in this room will contribute to that endeavor.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u48	Mr. President. It is no great pleasure that I come up here to complain about the tactics at the council and that the council has no business to deal with. We've got eight cases coming up on the 1st. In the council, there are six members of Congress and two tops of the board. One is salmon and trout fishing, specifically for eels, the other for electric cigarettes. That's all that's left before the council. Today, we have a short day's work schedule, perhaps we are taking up 35 hours of work, as discussed earlier today. I don't know if it's government policy to treat us so well. But once again, I call on the government to get some work to do to the council. Although it is fun to talk about your own matters, it is not easy to let members of the council stay out of business. But does it not have to start dealing with some of the government's concerns? [[The president calls.]] Aren't they?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u49	President. I agree with what. Senator. I'm worried about this because it's likely there's a slight crack in the affairs of late for the council that's going to be hard to win. I'm just talking about what we've got on the welfare committee. I have a list of members of Congress that will come. It was due in January and February, but it has not yet been seen. I don't want to be put in the position of quickly putting any council case in a hurry. I'm not gonna do that. These issues are to be given a reasonable deadline. We're supposed to have the normal time to do away with them and keep them with the government. It's down below all the caves that this is being offered. We are to receive these matters and have the normal time to win them. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u50	Mr. President. I have to face up to a little less concerns over the limitations of the government. Since the Senate project has been working for the past few weeks and a year, I want to draw attention to the fact that despite the fine talk that there is an even greater amount of room for Congress now and that this is being done well with us members of Congress by allowing us to measure these matters, it certainly worries me that these matters are not being done as well as they are being done. ... thatthe administrationis not the same. What happens? Yes, we get to recommend these members of Congress, they even get their money on the Senate committees. But then, when the time comes for them to go on a normal course at the council, what happens? All of them will be swept aside because the tops of the board of directors have to arrive. Mr. President, I feel like we're being promoted to play around here. I don't think it should be tolerated. I suggest that the government begin to inform us of any future developments and whether the Senate case will be decommissioned if the entire case is due at the end of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u51	Mr. President. This delay in the government is particularly embarrassing because here members of the Left Green held up discussions about President's conference board for the past year and did not achieve the inactivity of that government. Yet, that government came, according to the circumstances. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Wormund's Víglundsson, out with twice as many cases as this one has. The situation is particularly serious because this assembly will be indiscriminate. Easter and then local elections are torn apart. Even more awkward is that it was the highest. Prior prime minister spoke of saving the education system, the health system, and the transportation system in the country. This is going to be the most slow and unattainable rescue mission in the history of the world. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u52	Mr. President. Two cases are waiting for the government. In fact, it's a matter of the last government, one about electric cigarettes and one on the other. There's nothing else that comes up with the government's initiative now or that waits. Then members of Congress are waiting. I could come up here and say there's gotta be some kind of joke going on, but it's a freak situation, and it's embarrassing. I hope that there is something in the government covenant for a new business. If that's how we want Congress officials to see more payment on that case at the end of the council, I'll take my hat above the government. If we see that we are not just some fulfillment material for the highest degree. The chairman of the council or the government for something to do, for us to put our affairs into practice that we've worked hard on, and for the sake of the committee, the landscape may have been changed. [[The president calls.]] I would like to encourage the government to treat matters. It is not up to us in our government to start building transport in the country, building up the infrastructure, law enforcement, etc. [[The president calls.]] It doesn't mean anything for senators of the left green to sit here grinning in the hall. [[The president calls.]] Get to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u53	Mr. President. This failure of the government is getting very embarrassing. I think it's really time for this government to face the need to rethink the Council's work programme for this spring council. It is clear that there will not be a time to resolve the issues that the government intends to bring forward, as one of the two must be revised, the Constitution of the government, or the program of the council, because this simply will not work out. It is absolutely unacceptable that we are running a short time on our final meters in spring to handle dozens of cases on an assembly line. I am, in effect, even more amazed that when you look at the Constitution of this government and see that there are a number of cases that had already been committed by the former government during the previous council or were prepared for contributions on the part of the previous government, and it does not seem to be a great deal of intent on changing. Why, on the other hand, are these matters not allowed to happen before the council? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u54	A respectable president. I put together numbers for the highest. President. Overall, ministers have proposed 32 prime products, or concierge laws. Total cases are 103. 10 of these cases are actually waiting for 1. Um, two were moved today, so there are eight cases left. Then there are 15 synonyms, two guidelines were done now, so there are 13 synonyms. 12 cases have been adopted as law, and 66 are mentioned. Congress is 71, and there are 32 government cases. 24 is a member of Congress, where Silk Dögg is extremely active, with seven. The government has presented 47 cases. Overall, the government has 31% cases. The majority of them have 54% paintings, while the government has the rest. We will draw attention to the fact that we have 21 cases here. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There are only four, five meetings. That's when we're done with the things we found out. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u55	Mr. President. It seems to me that the government is pursuing a urinary tract infection government, where things are happening at once in slow, painful drops instead of having a healthy bulge, as if it were normal for us to do. It is also remarkable, especially in the light of words. Yesterday's Minister of Justice says that there should be fewer cases and fewer laws at the height of the law. The Minister of Education is the one who has taken the longest part in reducing matters. A total of zero cases have been submitted on the basis of it, despite the large words of the government on the increased emphasis on academic matters. I don't see how it's gonna work out. But it is clear that there is a need to spit only on the hands of the government. I'm going to call attention to a Senate case delivered today, a 222nd case, which in many ways would be a long way in fixing the dam of the government. [[The president calls.]] I would have gladly spoken this day, for there was plenty of time to do it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u56	Mr. President. Hv. Councilmen call for a view of the cards at the highest level. Government. Where's the big college press? Where's the infrastructure? And how to save the health system? As mentioned earlier, there is very little about fine art. The cards won't let us see. Of course, we can guess why. I doubt that the reason for this is a new operation and that it is now up to all members of Congress to get a good development in committees and retails at the Senate Hall. I think the problem is that the government groups can't get together, and they won't get out of the council because the process is natural, so it comes from the government, then pass through the council and then into the council. V.E.G. President. Could it be that the letters are in the Government classes?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u57	Mr. President. I hope so. paritaprevir Oddný's not a foretaste of a G. Harðardóttir when she says that this may not be a sign of a new practice. I hope this is a sign of the new process of working, the broad solidarity, where the government is going to pay the street of the statehood of statehood that has now entered the council. I know I'm a very optimistic person when I say that I hope that all the good things we've tried to talk about at the council will be approved by the greater part, but that this will not be another year where willing to represent the legislation of the high Council and that the next year will not be necessary to send in endless corrections for the failure of the government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u58	A respectable president. I have much to agree with the members of the council here. I did so yesterday when we had exactly the same discussion. I'll do it tomorrow too, if the members of Congress do the same things for them. For word's sake. paritaprevir Helga Vala Vól Helgadóttir just now, though, I'm going to shoot people to see if we should talk about the high Council, so that another year, the willingness of the II council work is represented. That is quite a saying that it is a mark of Aldulis's work. Sure, I think we're gonna do it. A senator has some examples of what she calls a willing spirit. But talking about the work of the high Council as a free spirit, and that it marked the last few years, probably before then. A senator and I came to the council, I feel a little deep in the year. But I would like the government to work fast and without fail to do good things. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u59	V.E.G. President. I agree with other members of Congress who have come up here and complained that the government won't show up. I wonder if it could be the way it happened in one shot. A senator, that this government, which appeals to broad appeals to the political shoulder, right to left, cannot agree on matters to come into the council. That's what I was wondering. When the government was building, I met people in the country. It was happy to see that it was finally bringing the government with such a broad appeal and that all of this would be done very regularly and well in the future if you are in the position of government, peace to be found. We've really been at peace, but the peace is so great that there's nothing going on. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u60	A respectable president. I'd like to respond to a word or two. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Ottar's son, Proppér. Under those circumstances, when there is not enough time to work, the work around here is characterized by a willing spirit. That's it. I know it very well from the last term when I was a senator, it usually came, if not always, not in all matters, very late. That left little time for them to be won. Then there was intense tension, much stress, a sense of time, excessive pressure to finish things as quickly as possible. Then there is nothing we can do to make the work today a feature of a willing spirit. This does not include an adverse judgment on the Agency as such, and it is not beneath the respect of the Generalis; it is just what happens when the time is not up to it. It is my fears now that things are too late, that we don't get enough time, and that we either have to be willing to do anything or that we don't do anything about it. I want to say, too, that if it does, it won't be possible to blame the government. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u61	Mr. President. For good reason, it has been called for new tactics at the council. Just as the old industry is characterized by a willing spirit in order to bring up all too late, much time pressure is formed, and it is overcrowded, and failures are made after mistakes made by this council is what is the most efficient of all Congress to correct. That's why we're calling for a new operation because these matters have not come up, they're not showing up. So we'll see that it will be the same old story, that things are coming so late, that there's going to be a lot of time, we have to hurry through them, and we don't have enough time to work our primary role. That's what I'd like to call for, top dog. President, that the government will show us how to play cards and let us know what cases will follow a certain delay in presenting new issues. Then we may be able to do a little overtime, be ready for a case that, in the spirit of an old response, is again under pressure through the council at a record speed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u62	Mr. President. In fact, I do not know what refinement fires in the government have been going the most interested part of the last term if that word is suddenly on a ban list, but the situation has really got worse since last year. Since I know the people sitting on the cabinet no more than hard work, I'm afraid there's some farce going in here, like a dog. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir said that the classes don't agree on what to do. It's not just a makeup, it's also a regular play, because some cases aren't allowed to appear in public until after local elections because it may be uncomfortable to explain to people that all the big words about having a transport plan were fake. Hv. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir came up here and says in a speech that she's very urgent that she doesn't show up and she doesn't have to rush it, but then she's gonna come back and talk about it now, but we're gonna have to be careful. [[The president calls.]] No, it's amateur. It's a charade and it's a play.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u63	A respectable president. I've got more excel. I mentioned before that it was 21 cases now waiting for 1st or earlier. Now the Piratars have put in exactly 21 cases, so if it wasn't for Pirata, we'd just be done with things here and there wouldn't be anything to do tomorrow. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I'd like to be proud of us for a minute. Pirats and I have presented 21 cases, more than 20% of all the cases that have been submitted to the council, and now we are not little in the big context we're talking about right now. I think it's very important what other senators have talked about here. We've held the council to the subject. Based on the underlying circumstances, it would be very sad if those cases simply went off and we had to do everything again. That would be, for example. very comfortable getting the senator away, the committees might have something to do for the summer, leave e.g. reviews all the comments that come and be prepared to settle matters at the start of the next assembly. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u64	Mr. President. I agree with that, it's a impossible situation. I have discussed it with my prime minister and my president that this is not present. It cannot be done in this way. My Criticism as a member of the Council has not changed since the previous council. I immediately said that I felt that the language was too large for a short spring meeting, from whether or not the language was being returned, because not everyone may want to reinvent the matter. I've made it very clear, and I did it last day, that we couldn't feel it. So I say, there's no problem at the council of the left greens. In fact, on Tuesday I thought they would be submitted before the end of yesterday's meeting so that they could be scheduled tomorrow. But for some reason, they did not give up on their plans, so to speak. [[The president calls.]] So I don't know that there's a lot of blockage, at least not in any of the council groups. But I agree with this criticism, it's not possible. This means bad work at the end. We don't want it to be that way. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u65	A respectable president. I've been in a position of government, and I've been on the board, and I'm completely calling for more, I understand that. There is no emergency in society. [[Up front.]] We can also ask about the quantity and quality of these materials. [[Up front.]] I appreciate the intolerance of the chairman of the United States of America in trying to make his point in this sermon. But I can make him happy by it, and perhaps with the same regret, that it's just a good partnership with this government, and it's not on the ground that humans can't get along. To prevent a voluntary situation, as we have been told, I believe it is important that things are also being done well at the Ministry and a requirement for them to come here well. I believe this government is doing it. It is better to get and get a well - worked case, which is premiumed by the government, and then work with it here, instead of meeting the needs of the government stand to flush matters just so that they can say that it is not a matter of government alone. [[The president calls.]] Why don't we just wait and see and take a breath and get things done for the council and nothing to do with it?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u66	Once again, the president asks the senators to respect the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u67	Mr. President. This is a very interesting discussion. Here we go. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, up in the pita, appeared to be upset over the word voluntary.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u68	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u69	It's nice to point out why. A member of the council says that according to the General's page, there is some reason. A senator seven times said that at a council meeting, he is willing to do legal or other work, so I think that the senator should be calm only with zeal in the words of other members of Congress. Regarding his willingness, it is appropriate to note that yesterday there was a law on the treatment of criminal cases that had dropped an article that was quite necessary about the cost of criminal charges, just because the bill had been rushed through the council. I can also take an example of five changes in foreigners in one year after the law went into effect, as well as a court law that has had to be corrected after it was passed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u70	A respectable president. Here I come up to say that I feel that I have been taken deep in the years by talking about willingness to do the work of the World Assembly in the past few years. Then I'll meet with the U.S. Marshals and tell them I'd like to put the word "no" on the list. They talk about my willingness to use that word, and I'm sorry to have used it. Here I am on the second day in a row, agreeing with the government's opposition to encourage the government to proceed with us. There are many government opposers here who dispute why no more is involved. What am I doing with my current practice or with my words being turned here by the government? I don't know.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u71	Neither do I.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u72	I don't know any better than a health minister was meeting with members of the council and explaining what she's about to do. When I was in a position of government, we were never approached by a minister. Perhaps this is an example of the first steps toward new practices. I'm very comfortable with that process. I hope others are pleased to have the highest. Minister to his appointment. And I hope that we can only unite in the normal demands, whether in command or in opposition, inaccessible and realistic, and with new practices. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u73	The president encourages senators to respect their deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u74	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Health minister of Svandís Svavarsdóttir for her efforts to speak to governmental opposition. It's a positive thing, so it should be a cause for rejoicing. I'd also like to be glad to hear that we are being brought under government control. However, that does not change our anxiety or solve our problem. I think you're right. Magnúsdóttir It's better to get some and then a good deal of advice. I'm just afraid they won't be given. I think there'll be a lot of them. That's my experience from the last term. I don't know that nothing is about to turn into these things. At the same time, clues do not indicate that. There is one thing I would suggest be done if the idea is to offer fewer cases, that the Government Constitution will be updated on the board of directors' web. In fact, I sent a message today to the Presidency Committee asking that the government be asked to do this when she decides not to make a case, so we are at least on the same page regarding what she is about to offer. [[The president calls.]] But as it now looks, we see that there will be too much work to be done in us to do well. When we see it coming, we must want to do everything in our power to prevent it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u75	Mr. President. We have been breathing deeply, waiting, and seeing for now for 90 days. It is often said in politics that the first 100 days of the government beat the tone for what should come. I don't know what to change over the next 10 days, but I'm ready to take a deep breath, wait and see. At least in this discussion, I think we can talk about it, and it's been a pleasure to hear from time to time. The members of the board, that we need to look at the human nature side. We often work long hours, it is often very stressful, and there are children who need their time. Good organization is needed. We have often complained about the lack of it. There is often little that is early in each assembly, and many things are late. That's not good enough. First and foremost, we need to show proper respect for the events here, for the people who work here, and for our role as a Assembly in doing things well, doing things carefully, and doing them progressively. [[The president calls.]] We should be able to agree about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u76	Mr. President. Yesterday, President said he didn't have the highest bidder. Counsellors. I'm sure you're right. But the president decides what goes on on the program for the council. I'll ask the president to keep that in mind when things start to pile up, if they do, which is likely. But it may be Logi Einar Einarsson, boy. A senator and head of the United States had been right when he said that maybe it was a delay because it would not be good for them to be accepted into the council before the district election because they might not be pleased with all of them. The President is in charge of the program. Government officials say that we are not going to accept the failure of our case. And we are not going to accept that there will be an accolades at the end of the council. It's very good to have said it here day after day during this situation, so that no one is wrong and what the situation will be like at the end of the council. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u77	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir says that there's a problem. That's right. It's very good that the government has the ambition to do good. But if from the beginning it was intended to do so well, why on the other hand is there an introduction to a Congress file with 140 nonprogramming issues? We have 14 conferences until Easter. We will discuss big issues, such as financial and financial policies, that I think the council will need quite a bit of time to discuss. After Easter, there are 15 conferences until the district election. I repeat my first words: One of these matters should be carefully reviewed by the government not only at work in the plots but also because of its carefulness at work - the government should call for a reexamination of the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u78	Mr. President. I'm not going to get involved in this discussion much, but I've enjoyed it because it reminds me of the way in which a man's work standards are being handled, and I'm proud that spring of how productive the council was, it's been taken care of, and so many primes and Senate laws and inquiries answered, etc. and we do our best to work hard. We forget that there is another standard for the general public, that is, the effect of legalization on my daily life, on my business affairs, etc., because most of what we do here is burdensome for individuals, adding a greater burden to the individual population. I think we should take a considerable detailed discussion on how we can clean up a little bit in the law and that we would... I don't think it's a measure of how many things we're doing, but what they are, and how they benefit the public and companies of the country. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So simple is my outlook on life, huh? paritaprevir and a companion of Logi Einarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u79	Mr. President. It's strange for me to come into the great General Assembly as a new deputy and experience such grueling. It may be said that this is not the quantity but the quality. But I've just wondered about the issues we've been considering here. At that time, I feel that much of the big things are missing that are important to society. Then, especially, I look to the level of government where I work as well. I'm really worried about the lack of direction we're looking at here. Important policies and plans do not seem to appear to appear before elections. It's completely unacceptable. The government has to show the cards before that time. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u80	Mr. President. It was referred to as a short work day. We discussed working hours, 40 hours, and reducing our hours of work by one hour a day. But stopping here is only half a six and a half, it's only very normal. We stretch out a little bit now about an hour so that we can work for our high purchases at the General and the benefit. I'd rather get fewer and more successful cases from the government and prioritize them. It may well be that the government has to reexamine its Constitution. It shows sense if she does and recognizes that she doesn't get it all. I think ministers should look into it, because we, the head of the committee, would also like to be careful with committees. Even if they arrive at the end of the hour at the council, there may not be a problem going through. All of these matters need to be taken into account. We don't want to have any assembly assembly assembly opportunities. We just want to be careful and not willing, whether in the council or in the Senate committees.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-21-27.u81	Mr. President. That talk has been interesting. I'd like to start by saying thank you. Councilmen in the left green here spoke up, explaining that they fully support our viewpoint on this matter. I am so grateful for that. I must say, however, that I have a measure of sympathy for them, that so little to listen to them, probably not within my own party, it doesn't seem to be the problem, it's a clean table for the council of the green, they say. So somewhere else is the matter. I'll think of it after a talk. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son that there's some reason why all of this is so distressing to the civilians that the independence party did not trust to put things ahead of them. Maybe that's why. Somewhere, they get stuck. I don't know why, but somehow I'll think about it. I got it. I got it. Senators to the honor. At least they have our support to push matters away from the government.
