ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u1	There have been eight letters received from the transport and local secretary's office where they request an appointment to provide written answers to queries; on deck. Twenty-six, about the future of the city's Reykjavík Air Airport, from the Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir's daughter; on the icicle. 337, for the cost of the landport and the Western Islands a vector, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, to a threshing floor. 392, of the re-education of passenger and freight truck drivers, from Rafney Hyn Island Magnúsdóttir; on the icicle. 435 on transport donations, from the University of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, to the threshing floor. 495, on travel costs, and on the money of the minister, and on the Ministry, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, to the threshing floor. 469, through a tunnel between Sigurunda and River, from Friðbjörg Flandish, the daughter of Elíasdóttir; on a threshing floor. 471, for the toxic transport of Sandfjord and Hellishi, from Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Issu; and for the threshing floor. 472, about the toxic transport of apartment areas, from Ólafur Ísleifsson. Three letters have been received from the minister of foreign affairs asking for every request to give written answers to queries; on the icicle. 237, for the import of raw and unbound foods, from Bjarni Jónsson; on sk. 384, for the ministers' cars, and for the captains of the chariots, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson; and for the threshing floor. Four hundred forty-four members of the Ministry and institutions of the Ministry's Department's case, from Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson. A letter has been received from a health minister asking for every request to provide a written answer to a covering query. 484, on the basis of the Commission's work, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. Finally, a letter from the financial and economic secretary has been received on request every request to provide a written answer for the application. Fifty-nine, on loans to the financial institutions, from the Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u2	A respectable president. I'd like to briefly make a statement to the EEA's topic of agreement and the fact that today we have a petition for the benefits and failure of this contract. I think it is very important that Icelanders continue to wonder about the EU contracts, especially in view of the changes that are obviously happening. When the British leave the European Union, when one of our main market members, if I may put it that way, the chief customer of this contract will be removed, we must revise this contract, at least wondering what his future will be. Of course, there are many other parts in the EEA Convention or those that are not directly linked. At the same time, we on the Foreign Affairs Committee are going to do a story in the morning on the continuation of this so-called third energy package, i.e. the energy directive from the European Union, where it can be assumed to be a significant discussion of their future. In recent years, it has been observed that some of our doubts are the most highly valued teachers in the law that we can continue to introduce the directives because we have signed off and so much of our national sovereignty, so we must emphasize that the situation is appreciated, i.e. evaluating the benefits and flaws of this contract and possibly assessing what our future benefits will be. I myself have been a member of the General Assembly since 2009 to discuss this agreement and, of course, have, of course, been responsible as Minister of various directives instituted. This does not change my view that we must evaluate the situation, especially in view of the fact that the British, one of our main business people, are disappearing from the European Union. That's why this contract must change.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u3	V.E.G. President. I'm going to discuss a work programme ahead with a discussion on the government budget. V.E.G. The president has already introduced members of the council members and members of the council to the arrangements planned for the Senate address here at the first session. That's the way it's gonna be. The secretary of finance measures the case tomorrow, Wednesday, and then, if all goes along, it will be referred to why. The budget committee will be on Friday for a discussion. On Monday, a financial committee so traditionally gets a meeting with the Department of Economics and Economic Affairs and a general presentation of the case, similar to what all classes received on the last Tuesday. As much as this is really on the table of all council committees as we accept the presentation of lawsuits in the fields of fasting. As in the past, it is important that we plan our ministry carefully in this matter and that we have a good cooperation between committees in order to make good use of the time, i.e. to save time, but no less to strengthen the ideology that policy is in harmony with financial schemes and funding. Therefore, the arrangement has been discussed that each professional committee and financial committees together will study the subject and subject areas belonging to each committee, which, in turn, can work together on funding in each topic field with the local minister and the Ministry responsible for each sector. The next week three committee days are scheduled, and with good organization we should be able to use those days in order to complete this program if we are doing well. I hope and expect the presidents of the Committee to agree with their members on this organization.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u4	President. I suggest that the members of Congress begin to face the tragedy and the damage that the drug - controlled policy has brought on them. Is it not time to stop treating people who have a drug problem as criminals? The cause of addiction is not soberness but the ability to bond. The drug is not a result of the happy effect of drugs on the user. Rather, it is the inability of the user to develop a healthy relationship with people around them and themselves. In other words, drugs are not a drug problem in themselves but are a social problem. By define and really understanding addiction as a social problem and health care, we also protect ourselves. Our children are exposed to the prejudices that arise because of their problems. Prejudice is usually unconscious and secretive into people's thinking and coloring all the behavior and response to the circumstances of this vulnerable community. But not only that but also the person's feelings on himself. People who suffer from addiction often experience extraspects, a burden on their family and society, and thus increasingly cut themselves off from their loved ones, who add to the problem. It's a vicious circle we're supposed to be stopping. Helping people develop a healthy human bond as part of their recovery and healing is not an easy task. It requires time, effort, capital, and support, which is solidly based on trust and fellow feeling. The approach to attempting to remove unwanted drug from society will not put an end to the addiction problem because it will avoid the deeper problem in society. There's another way. We can build a system designed to help addicts develop a healthy relationship with the outside world and thus help them to break free from their addiction. Dear Senator's World. I suggest that we combine to tackle the addict with compassion and sympathy rather than with prejudice and punishment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u5	A respectable president. I really want to start by thanking you. A senator for his wonderful number. It's true, I couldn't agree more. We are to strip off the addiction and to help our addicts rather than punish them for having this terrible disease of addiction. I'm gonna talk about something else. At this moment, a group of people outside the Department of Health in silent protests are due to lay down the Power of Mind. A mental force is an organization to help people who have had a mental disorder. As far as I'm concerned, I've seen through the years as a mood in Iceland has been trampled and treated disrespectfully by the officials who should have put their arms around the matter and helped people who need help. For 15 years, Faith has cooperated with the health care of the capital area, but it is now time to shut all doors and 800 people who have enjoyed this service know nothing about what will happen to them. This service, however, has proved to be a success. Is it so, more dignified President, that if something turns out well, you still have to make something new? You need to lay it down and make it a different way? Is this to create the insecurity of those who have needed their service? I can't understand the purpose of taking what is right, so I don't know what really comes out of it at the end. So I'm just saying, "Stupid to lay down what the people need." Rather, we should strengthen it. Mental - health issues should certainly be far more important than priorities, but they are testimony to this great General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u6	A respectable president. It has been discussed very frequently in the General Assembly on the status of the legislature and considered weak, particularly with the Commission. I took advantage of my virgin talk at the council to discuss this important matter with you in the past about a new operation at the General Assembly, and I'm still going to mention it here. Most of us would agree that much too little is being done here at the General Assembly in fixing the building itself, here at the national legislature. Thus, from the committees of the council, there are too few cases, and I think most members of the council are on the move to make significant improvements. Senators or primes from individual members or groups are often the only issues produced by elected representatives of the nation. All other issues come from the Council and Commission institutions. I'm not minimizing some adjustments made by the Parliament on the projections, which, of course, seem to be a lot of work. I'm only pointing out that to promote the council, there is a key way of greatly increasing the legal structure here within the aid of the legislature agreement. What can be done? Is there more people to consult? Yeah. It's gonna cost you. Why don't we take half of the people who are working in the legal process here under the Council? It doesn't cost anything. In the plot, some 700 people work. If we assume that the work of the law that I find unlikely is a total of 40 experts under the General Assembly can be exported for no money. Only a entry in the books and housing can also be transferred between these institutions. This can be done in a simple way in one or two years. Simple? [[Up front.]] Maybe too simple. But is not simple solutions often the best? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u7	V.E.G. President. I take a silent note of the council because of the bill of changing the law on the control of fishing, No. 116/2006, of coastal fishing, from a professional committee that will be recommended later today. The bill suggests changes to the network of coastal fishing. The switch of total resources to coastal fishing for sites four, A, B, C, and D will be maintained and, instead, a common pot for all areas at the same time, fishing levels will exceed reference. Monthly restrictions are such that each boat has the authority to use 12 days of those determined to hunt from Monday to Thursday outside the days generally considered holidays. The thought of this is to ensure greater security and reduce the Olympic fishing for people to row in bad weather rather than have their 12 days. If the bill becomes the law, they'll think of an experiment this summer and they'll revise after that. The response to the bill varies across all areas, except region A. The other areas have protested. By permission of the President, I would like to quote here in a line from the Land Association of Smallboaters, which says: It is very positive for the development of coastal fishing to have days to choose. The bill suggests that by 2018, on May 30, June, July, August, fishing will be equal to 48. However, the LS regime protests the product code of Fish Service access to stop the fishing policy of total power over total control. The conditions in the 4 coastal fishing areas vary considerably in the nature of fishing. I'd like to record it at the end of the day, e.g. In a place like the North Sea of Beach, boats would reduce their number if this bill remained the law. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Is that not true where shore fishing is even. Thinks like a cohesive system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u8	A respectable president. I would like to read to Congress Article 6.3 of the Ministry of Morality, by permission of the President: The secretary does not hide information that is in the interests of the public unless law or public interest requires it otherwise. The minister should take the initiative to produce such information as it is in the public service. As a result, I'd like to call attention to an answer I received from the financial and economic secretary to my inquiry for the release of data where I asked: ▪ When was the subject of a report on the property of Iceland in a foreign country to be concerned with public interest, which should be published according to the Minister's Code? The answer, by permission of the president, was: A report on the property of the Icelanders in a foreign land was carried out by the initiative of Bjarni son of Benediktsson, finance and economic ministers. Thus, its release was entirely without any external notes or assessments of whether they were relevant according to ethical standards. In other words, if a minister takes some initiative, he does not have to follow ethical principles. I can't really place enough emphasis on how ridiculous this answer is, that such an assessment was not appropriate whether the information that the minister had under the protection of public interest or not. It doesn't matter whether a minister calls for information on his own initiative or whether the General calls for the information. Of course, if they are in the interests of the public, they should be published, as stated in the Minister's Code, with the initiative of a minister as soon as possible. I think this is a very serious matter. Secretary's Code is not trivial. They've been through and through for a very long time, and they're really good for what I've read and the comments made on them. [[The president calls.]] But they are to be followed, not enough to have them, and they need to be followed. This answer makes me feel so ashamed and disrespectful to the protocols that I don't understand what economic and economic ministers are doing in this place all the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u9	A respectable president. First, I would like to quote the words of the chairman of the Quantum Community, the Þuríður of Harpa Sigurðardóttir, who said yesterday by permission of the president: ▪ There seems to be a lack of understanding that this social group cannot be left behind. We are made to wait for one more trip - in good health. The chairman of the Microcracy Alliance, like those in the anti - government position, expected that in the newly developed financial program of the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, a plan for five years, there would be a clear way in which the severe injustices against the impairment would be dealt with. All classes have discussed this systematic violence directed against one social group. In fact, whether you believe it or not, you can find the subject in the National Conference of Independence Party. One particular group cannot go out and raise a single dollar without cutting off the low amount of life available to them. I'll allow myself to claim that not every single one of them has been killed. A senator would be offered a similar approach. All of us agree on the importance of activity for this same group of members, but governments do not seem to be able to correct this kind of punishment. In a financial program, it is said that a cent is being decommissioned. However, when actions and their timing are noted, there is no evidence that this is planned over the next five years. That's why I'd like to be the highest witness. Prime Minister, by permission of the president, who rightly said so at the council. fall: ▪ Government should not ask poor people in Iceland to wait for justice. Now she has the power, and I encourage her to enact words.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u10	A respectable president. V.E.G. A health minister is currently in big trouble. Yesterday, she stood in that chair and realized that the government's negotiations with midwives were because they are in a special class, which is actually 100 years old at the time. At other levels, it stands at the highest. Ministers and others, along with the breaking of agreements with the Figurative force, have made remarkable progress in helping people with mental disorders, helping them in their recovery procedures by alternatives to medication and the routine of medical and patient relationships. As far as I can see, there was some change at the highest level. A minister in the affairs of the Power of Mind, but in her last term, she asked the highest. By means of a planned reduction of donations to the organization that it obviously did not agree with, a minister of health said that the organization, by permission of the president, had appointed a great special position in Iceland. This great special situation will now be interrupted. Today, the Department of Faith will see to it that their 15 - year association with health care will be torn down, and when you ask for an explanation, there will be little to answer. Power users see this as a foundedisation and system application to a function that has so far been driven on an equal basis. Eight hundred people thus lose out on the services they have enjoyed, not knowing what to do. They are people who feel that they are on the path to recovery in the environment that the Bible has established. Like Grétar Björnsson, who became ill from a very young mood, said in Morning Radio Channel 1 this morning, with permission of presidents: And what's at stake is my safety net. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u11	A respectable president. I'd like to discuss the terms and working environment of midwives, the profession which is the only female class in the country that serves only women, but also children and families, at their most personal and sensitive moments. How sad it is to watch a parade of midwives during the past few years when it comes to negotiations with the state! In this cycle, they have been waiting for collective contracts for six months. The last contract meeting less than a week ago ended with a bang. Today Fégörg sent a statement to the midwives saying, including, by permission of the president: ▪ Everyone wants to see that it is totally unnatural for midwives to reduce their salary to add two years of strict university education to a nursing school. A test in a nurse is among the admissions in the article, but if a nurse decides to add a test in midwives, she may have to take on a decrease in pay in the job of a midwife. So it seems, Mr. President, that women of the female class are punished by the government for improving their education. How far is it to save the government by letting the women's class go into action again? In harmony with their efforts, light - minded ones do not reap a reward. The midwives have gone long after recognition of their important work, not surprisingly, since they had only two years of working for a 10-week strike. However, they did their work on that strike, but they refused to pay for their work. Instead of going into a strike today, midwives have been proclaiming false reports and have become about 30. A respectable president. I can't believe we're one more time looking at an event in the category of women in the medical system. I can't believe we're seeing one of the most clear forms of systematic gender in our society, a society that is constantly concerned with being a master society when it comes to the equality of the sexes. It is vital that the minister of finance, responsible for the better business with midwives on behalf of the Icelandic state, arrange to negotiate with midwives the first and that the health ministers, who have cared for the interests of the women's classes, contribute to a solution so that the midwives go along with the agreement table. [[The president calls.]] They certainly deserve that from all of us. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u12	President. I'd like to make it a subject of what happened on Monday morning more than a week ago when six commercial jets of Icelanda had to land at the Akureyri airport and Lamps Airport, unable to land in Cheflavík, and pointed out that 30 years ago, when the current Icelandda's flying system began working, in 1989, these were seven jets. By 2010, they had been 16 to and from the country; last year 47, 57 were this year, and it can be expected that by the next year it will be 70. During this 30 - year period, the fleet has increased tenfold. At the same time, the infrastructure of a backup flight has not been built up, and this is the economic foundation of our society that has been built up here in recent years, it is linked to this activity, but at the same time, the activities of the earth below, the infrastructure, have not been built up. The director of Icelandic professional pilots left behind, after what happened on Monday last week, that a dangerous situation had developed. Therefore, in the media, I have suggested that the commercial authorities and the Icelandic fliers make their move to build trucks on the reserve airports so that machines can be arranged firmly. That would be the first verse of this matter, and it is the least that can be done. With a new machine, it costs 20 to 30 million at each level, but this way four additional five passengers can be arranged in addition to what has been achieved. What's about to change is that the system is becoming so big that in the morning and around this connection time, 20 to 25 jets in the same minute enter Chefavík, but we've completely forgotten to build up the wood behind the backup airports and secure the entire air traffic system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u13	Mr. President. The middle class has been tireless in pointing out how poor the government has been in the interest of the State Fund at Arion Bank and is still receiving reports on the affairs of Aion Bank. The latest report is that now the hedge fund wants to reevaluate the government's premium at open tenders. Already, the funds have reached their first major objective of getting the State out of the shareholder. It was successful, so we have a prerequisite for our next objective. The next goal is to change the kit to maximise the benefits of the hedge fund. This means that they will pay as the lowest amount of money to the State, they will take action that will result in the loss of pay to the State. A report at the Science of April 4th, U.S.A. introduce your level of scales as your next goal. They do so by saying that the government's premium causes uncertainty by registration of the bank and thus has to cancel the premium. It's very clever, if we were hedges. To get the premium fell, the ultimate goal is to get a trust fund out of the picture. Here they have found a material reason to revise money for the State, so they can make a suggestion to the State, which they, of course, they say will be very reasonable. The government's premium is a power of value and is to secure the state's position, including the members of the owners' group and become owner of a business bank. It's the nature of premarital rights. Mr. President. Now I'm going to make a suggestion for this hardworking government. It is that the State should now ask the Council of Buy to make a suggestion on what payment they would like to pay to the State for passing out the premium, so that other conditions will remain unchanged. The worst thing that could happen to the scale of the hedge fund is if the government fund was to be premiumed and threatened to use it. That meant paying market prices for things.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u14	A respectable president. There have been a lot of words today that I would like to agree with, but I especially want to say every word in a beautiful speech. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörðurdóttir. But to everything else. In fact, when we talk about transparent administration, everyone understands what is meant. On the other hand, when it comes to open software, most do not understand what is meant. I want to do another experiment as a computer nerd to try to explain that phenomenon. In fact, it can be called open software software software. Software is something that we all use, at least most of us, in our daily lives, and the authorities use a lot of it. This software has more and less information in the system. A lot of this software, if not more of it, is closed. That means that no one can see how it works but the producers themselves. Open software is a transparency issue. Thus, it is often called a question about the cost of saving. First of all, that's not necessarily the case. Second, it's secondary. The point is that when we cultivate software policies and handle information from the state, we should automatically ask: Is the software really open? Whenever the government is going to buy or manufacture software or buy some special solution, it should ask: Is the software going to be open? It is an important question for the same reason that it is important for the media to send questions to the authorities and get answers. It's just as important, the same alpine is going on. The question is, can we really know how software works? If it's closed, we can't. If it's open, we can. I'd like to mention this because I came across a financial programme to plan to purchase software for the management of foreigners, which, in my opinion, is a good thing. But it reminded me that all too many times I'm transpiring software, and I'm reputing that software does all the information, it doesn't take place as an independent basis. I'm sorry. I have begun a contract with a synonym to try to remedy it, and I will invite all members of the council to be on it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u15	A respectable president. At Easter, I stayed in an East country, as I have actually done a great deal of my life, but as in times past, I wondered about the quality of life in the country, whether in less urban areas or in rural areas. I'm not going to list them here, but I still recommend endless outdoors and opportunities to participate in a wide variety of social activities. At the same time, my attention focused on the growing population of the country. In fact, the population of rural areas is increasing for the first time in 150 years. This was shown by an interview at Þóroddur Bjarnason, a professor of sociology at the University of Akureyri. That's where he's based on the values of the Habitat and the analysis of a graffiti. The population of rural areas, especially near urban areas, has increased in recent years and, in fact, in most of the urban population at the capital area, where population population has nearly doubled in seven years. The reasons for these changes have not been specifically analysed, but they may be likely to play a key role in creating a variety of jobs for people with different backgrounds. Here we have often talked about the fourth chapter of the industrial revolution; however, should it not lead to the resurgence of rural population in the first part of the industrial revolution? So in the future the question may not be, Where do I have a job? but, " Where do I want to live and work? ' Of these figures and of the conversations I have had in the last days, I believe that more people are willing to live in the street than I can now. Governments need to take into account this in their policy of building public services and infrastructure. It is part of the country's competitiveness toward the future that people have the option of settling in cities, less urban areas, or less rural areas. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u16	A respectable president. The one standing here is a party representative who is very concerned with the benefit of women's classes, and I know this applies to many of those sitting in this room. A few of us were members of a council of requisitions and other classes who proposed a national arrangement for improving the interests of the public groups of women in the sector, which is a key factor in making possible the application of government officials in educational and welfare. Passing at the highest. However, the minister of this public speaker yesterday suggests that perhaps we should board our sleeves and start playing defense because of the highest degree. The ministers shall say, after they have rebuked him. A senator who gave this matter, for expressing concern over the situation of a pair of midwives, that the matter was in a knot due to the choice of midwives in a dresser's company. It is true to recall that midwives belong to the modern - day midwives of Iceland, as shown in the public talk recently, an age - old corporation, a few decades older than the premiums of the country, that midwives should also be trained. I don't know, and I don't really care if those words fell because of the highest. A minister has dreams of one state - of - state union or whether it is just up to the wall of the case, but I urge it to go back to the parish on this case because midwives owe it to us. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u17	Mr. President. I'm here to discuss just the program management at the council. K. 19 Last night, after a meeting ended, we received information on the 21 events that would be on today's program. At that point, members of the council were told to begin their preparations for the day, and members of a committee meeting this morning, had to be prepared for that meeting, sit and listen to the visitors who were there to inform the members of the council of the work they have to do. I wondered, " Is this evidence of good work? ' According to the Government Treaty of Katrín's Jakobsdóttir, unusual circumstances require change in practices, open administration, transparency, and respect for projects, and the will of the groups now involved in government cooperation and the promotion of the General Assembly to approach new assignments for the general public in the country, particularly by giving specific support to the General Assembly and increasing its influence. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I wondered how we senators should do our job when this is the case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u18	Mr. President. I'd like to agree with them why. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir. I have long made a comment on a work song in this council hall. The irony of this is that the current president of Generalis, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, has, in particular, promoted it when he sat across the table, i.e. Change the work profile in this regard. I remember the time when the current president of the Generals, St. Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, called the then president of the Allegorian Prosecutor. I'm not going to do that title right now, but I'm sure he can't figure it out that he can't build 18 Parties in a day. We've been calling for world government primes all winter, and getting the situation sooner so that we can get it better is a matter of interest to both the management and the respondents. Now there are only 14 meeting days until the end of the election, and this work is no longer working. I think the president of the council must begin to consider himself, not the president of the Commission, but the president of the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u19	A respectable president. While I welcome the fact that we have finally arrived at every hearing we've been waiting for or at least a part of them, the Constitution was a little longer, I have to make a note that they're all piled up on us with such short notice. Just as it doesn't work that things are coming up late, they won't be piled up on us at the same time. It's just as bad. This comes at a time when we are reviewing the financial program that appeared about a week in advance of 1st. But there are errors in it, and it needs to be printed again, and we are not told what mistakes are being made so that we have a little problem. Do you want me to read the financial program or not? Now we're preparing for one of the government's largest cases at the highest level. Then the prime minister will get those clothes in the head with 20 cases or something that we should also start preparing for and discussing and participating in. These two just don't match. The President has to consider working professionally, should be careful. [[The president calls.]] This doesn't quite fit into that picture.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u20	President. I agree with my colleagues who have come up here, this is unacceptable. We cannot be expected to enter into all these matters with such short notice. It's not like having to work in an environment where we don't know what to do until the night before. This involves not only members of Congress and our work but also the public, people in the society who want to be able to observe, influence, and participate in the discussion. This need to be further premonitioned so that these matters are not decomposing at all at the same time. I call for this to be revised to the future, that we try to move away from it. I know it's become a custom, someone's tradition of working like this. Sometimes there is nothing to do, and sometimes there is too much to do. But there must be a change. We must be able to spread the pressure better over the period.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u21	A respectable president. All I have to do is talk about being a rookie this week that I've seriously asked my team members if this is some kind of joke. I came in on Monday, and there was one session. Today, someone else had an entirely different schedule. Then I got a list of cases for today, a list of 21 cases to discuss here today. I don't understand. It was like this when I came here in January. It seems that it is not possible to organize the General Assembly as should be rather normal for this institution. You might want to get a project manager or something, I don't know. - Captain? - Yes, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u22	A respectable president. I cannot help but express great happiness with this program. It's just that there's a lot of cases all over the council and it's realized that somewhere people have come to realize that the council was behind them. There are about 14 days left. Can we assume, then, that these are all the things that will be added? At the same time, there is not much time to make a recommendation or make more cases through the council, so we must have the picture of what the government will do for spring, which is not great. Of course we can. The budget was late. Congress generally came late from the government. As a result, we are in this position now. We have a full schedule. Today, we have 18 or 21 issues on the meeting program. We know we'll work late after dinner this week. By the next week, the number of committees has increased, so we are experiencing a fast flow of time. I wondered, though, if it can be informed, so that men can plan ahead, from the highest point of view. The government's president or presidents whether another 18 cases can be expected two days before a vote? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u23	Mr. President. As soon as the government has woke up from the hibernation, it raises questions about how it is expected that the Council be successful when 18 cases are loaded in on the same day. Is 1st. on Congress matters just for decorations? Do you really expect the council to run through all these issues that are very important, fundamental, for example? to the national financial system, tagged the 1st around. Unreading, finishing it, and then we can try - in fact, there is not much time left - for good work at 2 Timothy 3: 1. ... awrong.? These are not acceptable practices, and significant comments must be made to the Council President's conduct, offering a ride on a program that allows members of the Parliament to receive a few hours in the evening to prepare for a discussion on as many topics as presented here. I agree with others, I'm glad to see that the government is awake. However, she could have done so much earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u24	A respectable president. I'm going to give you the first reason to commend. The head of the Economic and Business Committee for their efforts to increase the awareness of this committee. It is what is often missing here. There seems to be a pattern that the more people have here, the less problems they feel. Of course, it is because when people are very experienced here at the council, they can start to give themselves something, have some sense of evolution. It's just not enough. It's supposed to be, like we're saying in my business, you idiot-proof. It should be possible to see this on the web just a little into the future, at least in the order we're taking a case, at least. Not just in time. Seven nights before. However, I would also like to commend a respectable president for his efforts to meet me and another man. A member of the board of directors to try to figure out how to increase the fear of man. But I want to make sure it's not a problem. It's no problem, if there are any principles simply creating a list. It's no big deal to solve this. This is a problem that if you explain it to people outside the Generals, they won't believe. [[The president calls.]] They don't believe it. They don't understand until it's in here. [[The president calls.]] And how often are the wolves coming in here, and the first thing they do is complain about this exactly? [[The president calls.]] Isn't that a little strange? Isn't that very strange?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u25	Mr. President. I am a optimistic person by nature, even thinking that I can be helpful at times. I would like to contribute to the problems facing the government. It has produced a Congress book, which is a rather universal book. Then comes the time of the Senate, the convocation days. I think now it would be advisable for the government to sit down with me and others and take steps to set their priorities. We can get our hands on the 1,5520 cases and join in trying to win them properly and get them through, depending on the events of change. I believe there is absolute hope to expect that there will be any blunder or image in the Senate or in the prime project if it is still a firm opinion and intention of the government to present all their cases and expect them to be over. [[The president calls.]] I think it would be very good for all of us -- I know that we all want the council to rid us of good and necessary legislatures - that we helped with the blackness. I'm in.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u26	A respectable president. I don't complain about night meetings or night meetings, weekends, or weekdays. I'm not complaining about going to work. What I complain about, however, is that I get to know at the time. 19 What Tomorrow Will Be! Is this done to help you? Councilmen, whether in a government or in a position of government, cannot make adequate study of the matter? Mr. President, are you enjoying your work? Was it unclear about noon yesterday what subjects would be discussed today? What about fourth power media? Like us, how should they feel about this? What subjects will we discuss today? The Senate website is still scheduled for Thursday and Friday. Meeting days are still expected to be next week. The Web site has not been updated, and yesterday a foreign minister said that he was going to discuss his report. This is what was on the website when we looked at it just before we went home last night. [[The president calls.]] I don't think it's acceptable, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u27	Mr. President. I miss no further involvement in this criticism. As I said earlier, it is a matter of interest for the entire body of Congress. Especially are the members of the council and the presidents of solid committees who have to pass the Senate. Usually, the Ministers are on the day of 1st. Therefore, I do not understand why the members of the board and the presidents of the NTSB do not come and agree with these criticisms, that the matter is not to be piled up in the way here is being done. I've been chairman of the NTSB. I can't accept it at the time to get things so late from my minister. Therefore, I would like to counsel those councilmen who are presidents of the fasting committee to stand up to their counsellors. I know it's your team, but it can be done sooner than now. The Executive Director is not at all designated by the Commission. If we're going to get off that bike, we're going to have to change this. And now, it is a good thing to live up to the powerful words that many ministers and current presidents have certainly found in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u28	A respectable president. I agree with the words of the previous senators on the front page that this will help to support the fact that the Allied Council is the brand - time center referred to here. When we have so many issues at a time, it's like we're just here to take care of it from the 1st. As noted earlier, this makes the Minister a bit of a break, coming in the 1st. to consider the matter, to answer even questions that come in the following answers, but when the case is done in 1st. is somehow the committee, and the council has taken over. Then the Ministers have gone. I'll wake up, for example. Attention to the 12th case here, the courts, i.e. Rearing sentence. This is a matter which I believe would require quite a lot of discussion with regard to the national rights that were here at the end of the last term. It's not something we're about to let something really easily go through the council because of the problems we faced regarding the land rights, that there's a new level of judgment, a review, and we don't go over that bill very accurately. [[The president calls.]] Then it's 1st. It's also very important.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u29	A respectable president. I saw the schedule yesterday. Then I was preparing for a committee meeting at the General and Education Committee this morning. After that meeting, I immediately left and took one case that captured my attention, No. 11, damage laws. It's up to 14 pages. Just this one thing is quite enough, that's all I've been unable to look at. Of the other 19 cases, there's nothing I've been able to look into. I haven't even considered what I would like to talk about right away, i.e. The damage laws. I don't understand this kind of work. I think this kind of work must be in order for you not to be able to study things properly. How, then, should you vote if you have no idea what it's all about?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u30	A respectable president. It's an old story, and new that when you want to change something that's ongoing, it takes quite a long time. It takes more than determined will, even the entire group that wants to change things, and changes need to be made. Despite what has been presented in the matter. Senators - here are only government senators discussing matters - I know we're all in this heat. We all face the fact that this is the case that needs to be taken care of in order to promote the interests, abilities, and respect of the Generals. This is not particularly complicated, it may be a solution, and there are sometimes specific reasons why the program will be late, but it can be changed, and this can be fixed. There's one thing we can be sure, we won't gain the respect and the way of the council if we don't fix it. We have to be able to do our job. It's not just about us, it's about the public, because it's the public who's living with the laws that are approved or rejected.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u31	V.E.G. President. I'm sure I agree that in here we can paint sooner, that's old history and new. I have encouraged governments so far to show that work, and I do so now. But it has to be true. Prior to the weekend, members of the council were given detailed information on how this week's program should be conducted. We received information about the issues of counsel. Class presidents in hand were asking for information on the issues they were in today's issues, seemed to me, by number sequence as far as it will go, and as much as possible to follow through. Let us keep that in order. Immediately after the meeting of the Presidency Committee, information on the adjustment of the program was provided. It was as soon as that meeting was over. Let us talk about things as they are, but of course, we can always improve, and that is what we should do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u32	A respectable president. There can be no doubt that there will be improvement if there is any advance in the specific matter of Congress coming to 1st. during the coming week at the council. However, I feel that it is a very long time for people to criticize the program that is in store for us today. It is obvious that if the day does not come to an end to discuss all these matters, they will just wait for a new day to come and we can arrange for it later. This is the case with the first issue. the case of the case, the case that has been held in the Government Constitution, the cases that have been waiting for a donation, of being able to make a part of the program. They've been sitting here in a side room for senators to study. Then there is talk of an issue to be settled. [[The president calls.]] Of course, cases need to be mentioned where the work is being carried out.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u33	A respectable president. To be sure, setting priorities is necessary, especially in the present circumstances. Of course, this is due to the way the council has been since the autumn. Doing so creates difficulties in the way we should resolve matters. It's in the eye. I like it. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson son of quick to forget. He was here in the same situation last year, and I remember that I sat with him in the government, and I specifically mentioned to him that we needed to be careful not to try things out, the Ministers, in the last few yards. That's how I did it, but not everybody did it. Hv. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir and others comment on the fact that there is no time for research. Well, that wasn't much of a strain on members of the council last week. The case has been in here for at least ten days for members of Congress to study. It is now that we do not put ourselves deep into all matters but, above all, the issues that we are discussing in the committees that hear under us. [[The president calls.]] I agree with the words that have fallen into the process that need to increase the respect and way of the council, but this discussion is not part of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u34	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son for calling attention to the fact that there were members of Parliament in the last government that brought a case into this council, other than others. All right. But what I'd like to draw forward, away from who is in the government at any time, is that we must watch this program. She's not a credit to the council. I'd especially like to direct it to the highest. President, most important because it's now 2:30. Let us assume that a meeting meeting will be held at 12: 00 p.m., and there are 18 subjects on the program. If each class talks in every language, we have, on average, less than four minutes for each case. We're talking about court law, we're talking about fish farming, we're talking about the damage laws, financial companies. Is this what they're defending the freedom of speech here, our senators? I don't think so. I think it's very important, especially because the government's deal is just, what, not five months old, that we start to respect what it says and try to promote better practice at the council. [[The president calls.]] This doesn't show that the job at the council is getting better, and I want to encourage the highest levels. Minister to take these kindly words from our side of the government and begin to read them over. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u35	Mr. President. I didn't mean to cut my mouth off. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson for the performance of the last government. However, although that government had a period of six weeks shorter during the same session, it did much more in that short period of time than this government has done. In fact, it is a remarkable achievement that this government has been unreachable. It has to do with our showing proper respect for the council. Many of the cases that the government is delivering are reinvigorated from the last council. More and less have been available all winter long, since the last winter. [[For example, report on:]] - Well, they haven't been able to get up there. But it would have been easy to throw them into this assembly in January and February. While the council kept complaining about having nothing to do with it. But no, wait till Easter, and then it's all piled up, and then it's done in a few days, counting on the fingers of one hand, that we've got from mopping to country elections. [[The president calls.]] This is not an acceptable practice. It's not an organization. That's what we're making a comment to here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u36	A respectable president. It is always the case when we discuss that the complaint is minimized. They always pretend they're just some kind of bullshit. People may have conflicting views about how things are supposed to be. It's just normal and good. However, this is always the same line from the greater part. I always say because it's always the same line. It's because it's really not that easy to figure out, it's all fairly predictable. Why, then, can't you put it in such a list before? Just put on the list, some kind of priorities? Why is this so at a council meeting and then a council leader to take it to the council members? Why does this simple thing always have to be so overexhaustible in this specific institution? There's nowhere else to go. It's not supposed to be a problem. We're not supposed to have to argue about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u37	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. Councilmen, government supporters, and the highest. A minister for saying this, and saying, "This isn't exactly going to be the best way. " Of course, the best thing to do is to agree that this is not good enough. I feel a little sad about people going along with them that they've been this often, and they're no worse than last year. You were nothing better now, they say, and they start to think about what was said then and then. The difference is that this government went out of its government covenant to cooperate with the Council of Government in a special way. There was the possibility of improving the work and the cooperation with the Generals. [[The president calls.]] Rather than agree and admit that this is not good enough, but it is good enough for us, this government should just break its show of pride, accept its own government contract, and change its practices. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u38	Mr. President. I agree with what. The members of Parliament are already discussing the need to appear earlier. Since the beginning of the council, I have often been standing here and discussing these matters because, unfortunately, we seem to repeat ourselves in this regard, no matter who is on the throne. I've urged my Minister very much in order to put matters first. I have also said that I felt that the language was too long for a short council, and people were planning too much. Although we want to change here, we still have a large system behind us that, unfortunately, changes way too slow and we have problems dealing with it. Just to keep it up, the president of the Senate told members of the council that he did not necessarily assume that today's program would end. For that reason, he suggested that Monday be a long meeting, with the issues to come on. This does not change the fact that we should have more time to prepare for the situation than it has been. [[The president calls.]] That was my suggestion, and I agree that, of course, we could be more diligent in asking. Is one case, three cases, five cases, or how many cases are there from each minister? [[A hairsick in the Senate.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u39	President's asking for silence.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u40	A respectable president. This certainly puts matters in perspective, and somehow I would like to take further discussions on this subject, which was called off the balcony, but let's stick to the program. I just wanted to walk out of this matter in connection with it as a matter of course. A member of Parliament and a council chairman of the Prosecution, Egilsdóttir Eglólsdóttir, spoke of this discussion at a council meeting with a president. It's true in a way, what we're talking about here is that we're calling out that we don't have to put into a puzzle and sort of put some words to figure out what's going on. I'm just suggesting here, and I'll do the same for the next group meeting that they'll put things on the agenda for that group and the President will join the council presidents on Monday meetings to put the lines before the week. If we can't do that, can we not expect the members of Congress to do it themselves?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u41	A respectable president. Just briefly, I'm glad that this request for a report has arrived and will support it. I don't know if I'm supposed to call it inconsistencies, or as it turns out, people say differently, but I wanted to draw attention to how I understand it and wish that it would go on. The request itself includes requesting that the Generals order a report on the benefits and failures of Iceland's Member States on the EEA contract and its impact on Icelandic society. The work that is to be done is not set out in detail. Then point to the Norwegian example. The Norwegian State Department appointed a team of selected experts. I just stand here and use my seconds humbly to consult with a foreign minister who does not sit here but hopefully hears or hears of the request, to the highest degree. The minister and the Ministry shall assign such a group of selected experts to conduct this report, if necessary. [[The president calls.]] It is very important that we have a professional neutral assessment of this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u42	A respectable president. I'm going to support this report request. I was invited to join her, but I did not accept it, with all due respect, but readily vote with her and look forward to reading the report. I just want to mention to the House of Congress that I ever sat in the Hall of Congress during the last term, and we were paying a vote for a bill that I loved very much. Then I thought to myself, " It's impossible for us to have done this on our own. ' I want senators to remember that part of being in the EEA is that we get a load of well - worked, well - thought - out laws from many nations from many perspectives. Part of being in the EEA is having a legal environment coming from Europe. I think it's part of the benefits of being in the EEA. It is often described as a defect, but I want to call it an option, and I wanted to keep it to the best of my life.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u43	Mr. President. I agree with other senators. I welcome this request very much. For many years, I have been very concerned about the discussion that has been about the European economy and the agreement there, especially from this room here. I think it's extremely important for us to have that kind of assessment, as the Norwegians did for themselves. The Treaty on the European Economic Area gave Icelandic employment access to the market of 500 million people instead of the worldwide markets we work for today. Probably no international contract on the part of Iceland has been made that has been more relevant to the Icelandic economy than the European Economic Area Convention. The same is true of Icelandic homes. Not to be forgotten, the European Economic Convention granted us, the people of this country, the right to work, live, travel, and learn at the same market of 500 million people. I have no doubt that the results of a careful report such as this would be the same as those of the Norwegians with an overwhelmingly positive effect of contracts. [[The president calls.]] As other members of Parliament, I urge that this work be done, not thrown into the hands, but that we take pride in this report.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u44	Mr. President. Assessment of the EEA Convention is an important project. That is why, in itself, I support the subject of this request. However, because the report specifically refers to the Norwegian work on the same subject or subject, the work was entrusted to an expert committee that she had two years to do the work. 12 or 13 experts were members of the committee. She had many open meetings about Norway. It also considered the benefits and defects of memberities in the European Union. This committee here -- it's not even mentioned, it's a foreign minister, and it's in his own jurisdiction how he does it - he gets ten weeks. I ask you to consider the quality of your assessment, especially if you hope for a report comparable to that of the Norwegians, which was completely different from what is suggested here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u45	Mr. President. As other members of Congress, I agree with the importance of this report on the pros and cons of the EEA Convention, this most important international agreement with Icelanders. It is also urgent that the best be done. However, I would say that I still feel that it is important, as I have previously noted, that a prime minister of a transverse commission, as was done in his day, to bring the EFTA into line with the committee's leadership of Þ. Gíslason T. The same was done over ten years ago when the government of an independent party and a forwarding team formed a commission under the leadership of Björn Bjarnason's son. That committee gave a splendid conclusion that became an important basis for further discussions about each country. I now believe that the time point is in order for prime minister to call all political parties, to have a detailed basis for appointing such a committee as mapling Iceland's opportunities in the light of international affairs as they are developing today. [[The president calls.]] We're supposed to go on this together, I think it would even. to increase the strength and glory of the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u46	A respectable president. I am a part of this request, and I rejoiced that I had been invited to join them in asking for the report. I thought it was a good reason to say good - bye because some people think I'm bad. Senators interpret that you are somehow opposed to this cooperation. Not at all. I am absolutely certain that this contract has been a lifeblood for Icelandic employment and has meant a huge deal to us. I think this request is just a good feed in the discussion that we need to have about the value of this contract, especially in view of the fact that the British are walking out of the European Union. Whether it's ten weeks that we need to get the information we need, I think it's just the beginning of this discussion. We need to be constantly in evaluating Iceland's interests and how they're best paid. I believe it's within this agreement, but we need to evaluate it as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u47	A respectable president. By the next year, 25 years ago this European economy contract was signed, i.e. Ever since Iceland entered this alliance all of it. What has happened since then? A lot has happened since then, and now a very big thing is happening, i.e. I assume the British are leaving the European Union. We who have been involved in this call to speak with European respondents and others have also learned that many changes have taken place since the contract was made. The political knowledge of how people were going to solve the political issues regarding this contract is no longer available. This is now in the Excel documents, in some process where the specificity could not be considered which could be taken into account at the beginning of this contract. For good reason, therefore, I say here that there is every reason to be precise about this contract, his position and the best interests of Iceland in the coming decades. It may be inside this contract, possibly a changed agreement, in view of the fact that the British are leaving the European Union. But we should not be afraid to look at this, and it may well be necessary to give this much longer than is expected here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u48	Mr. President. I'm sure I'd like to look at the benefits and failures of international agreements, including the EEA Convention. I think it's important, however, that we don't begin to move the discussion to the area to see if we're supposed to be a member of the EEA community or not. I think the urgent question is much more if we should walk all the way and go to the European Union. Then I call for a further arrival from the political parties. I was chairman of the European Commission at one time, ten years ago, along with the then member of the council of Illugi Gunnarsson, and all the political parties were on that committee. The representatives of the labor movement, professional drivers, and other parties reviewed the urgent question that we have not yet concluded. Therefore, I encourage governments to look into this matter with a more open mind, for it is neither coincidence nor stupid that 28 European countries have chosen to operate in the European Union and 19 of them have adopted the euro. In my mind, it is clear that one of the biggest and most important interests of the European Union and of the company is that we walk in the European Union and enjoy the stability it provides and its currency. [[The president calls.]] [["No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u49	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct the conversion of financial companies laws, the restoration programmes, the timely intervention, the monitoring of databases, monitoring warrants, etc. The bill suggests changes in financial laws aimed at implementing the correct part of the Directive 2014/59/ESB, for the restoration and re-treatment of loan institutions and stock companies, or the BRRD directive. Changes are also proposed to the same laws based on the 2013/36/EU Directive on the Agency and the activities of financial organisations and their precautionary surveillance, as well as to the content of EU Regulation No. 575/2013, about the precautionary requirements for the activities of loans and investment companies, the so-called CRD IV and CRR procedures. In recent years, we have been working on the Icelandic dish CRD IV and the CRR protocol. It introduces the Basel III standard to Europe's rights. For the past few years, there have been a number of changes in financial law based on order. The main part of the changes proposed by the bill and based on the CRD IV/CRR protocol are linked to the interaction with the BRRD directive for the budgetary budget. This directive requires action to cope with financial problems or trauma. Then the directive decides how to minimize the negative consequences of problems or financial difficulties if they do. The directive therefore places both obligations on financial companies in order to prepare the response to problems of the problem and to give government permission to intervention in the business, they are having problems. If there is any introduction authority, the directive recommends measures and measures that governments can take in order to address financial problems. The aim of the BRRD directive is to protect financial stability, ensure the continued operation of a systematic key enterprise activity, reduces the likelihood that the budget needs money from the state funds due to damage that financial companies can do through their problems and eventually protect both the insurance and the financial resources of a financial company. Key changes to the bill are as follows: 1st Labour agencies, larger stock markets and corporate integration will be made up and updated. The programme shall deal with the business response to problems, including the measures that can be taken, the company's operating practices, scenarios and indicators that assist companies to identify when and what measures to take. The review plan shall be provided to the Commission to determine if the plan is adequate. Enterprises shall themselves activate their reform plan in the event of problems with the management of the budget, but the Commission may also demand an enterprise to implement certain activities of the programme in case of management problems. 2. There are new sources of authority established by the FDA, such as temporary intervention, which can be used when a loan or stock company violates the financial law or if the company's financial situation is considered to be worsening. The use of temporal intervention to finance companies can be selected from a number of measures that have the intent to correct the financial situation of the company. Temporary interventions should be employed prior to the establishment of a financial company and therefore the intervention should have a purpose other than prior reconstitution, e.g. with treatment or its fusion with another enterprise. 3. The bill includes new financial sources to make financial support contracts within the kit. It is a source, not a duty, as a partnership, one or more, that can be used to assist communities in a complex that faces problems. If any partner is to make such a deal, the contract depends on various limitations set out in security, such as the prospective agreement of the shareholders, the decision of the management board and the confirmation of the FDA. 4. There are further guidelines for monitoring of databases, but the bill aims to support monitoring and monitoring permissions using integrated financial companies, including ... witha partnerofthewelfare, which is considered to be the maternal organisations of financial companies and related organisations. The bill also measures the source of the UNECE for extensive cooperation with other health care providers for monitoring databases. Monitoring of a database is an important factor in financial monitoring, but on the basis of such monitoring, the work of not only an individual financial enterprise is being viewed but also a linked partner, their property, and their debt and their impact on the financial company. 5. The bill measures more changes, e.g. application to set the rules for high-risk commitment, further requirements for the internal monitoring unit of the financial enterprise, the notification of the administration or the Commission due to violation of precautionary measures, further precautions for precautionary requirements on the kit, requirements for the state of the financial agreements to be kept in place, and if subsequently required, a change in the Regulation's authority to ensure improvement for the subsequent changes performed under the Committee on CRR protocol after which it went into effect. A respectable president. The bill measures the number of changes targeted. to increase the awareness of the risk in the activities of financial companies so that they will be better equipped to cope with difficulties in business. I think it's right to mention here that the BRRD directive was recorded in the EEA Convention on February 9th. and that in Norway there has already been a law bill presented which leads to the directive, but Liechtenstein is finished. In that case, all EU Member States are already incorporated into a regularity. It is desirable that the implementation of the directive in this country will not be delayed and in the bill this is suggested that the first stage of induction be held before the summer, but it is planned to complete with contributions from another bill to the next winter. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee, after the end of this discussion and then through 2nd. At the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u50	Mr. President. This is an extremely important matter. Here, in many ways, the creation of a reorganization system in Iceland and, indeed, all of Europe, laid the groundwork for action in case of a similar situation and took place in the fall of 2008. History is not inclined to repeat itself exactly the same for the next time, and there will be no doubt the next challenge in the economy, either here or anywhere else in the continent. Nevertheless, the lesson is of utmost importance. What I would have preferred to hear about from the highest level. Secretary of finance in the previous contrary to the fact that we have had a very strong tendency to skin up a small amount of products in the European Economic Area and even demand far more of a domestic company than the European types have left. That's why I'd be interested to hear from the highest level. Minister whether this is what might be called a clean induction of these types, i.e. to work entirely on the text of the European types, or whether any additional requirements or measures were made that would then affect a foreign financial system.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u51	A respectable president. There is always room for the implementation of the induction process for the nation. But this is where, first of all, there are not many subjects being added to the induction, so I now answer that question. However, it is likely that the committee reviews only how the person's directives are spoken and how others have taken the lead in these matters. What I feel is that the way we Icelands choose in the fall of 2008 with the law of emergency, by giving first requisitions to their owners, and then later making agreements about property transfers to a new financial system, is that these are really pioneer decisions for everything that followed. We see this new European principle built up by a similar thought, i.e. When financial companies run into serious difficulties, such priorities are used to distribute in the regulations of today's infrastructure. Regarding the other, the contracts of the past, which were very complex solutions for us and became the basis for a long discussion at the council of their time - the European Union has gone much further and has merely confirmed the right nationalities to take their hands into the old nest and break out property as needed to establish or keep alive in systematicly important companies. It is even so far as to say: There is not going to be a market value in a vaccination economy, but it is the right to take possession of property at a coin with certain correctations afterwards. [[The president calls.]] It is a remarkable development and has a major historical link to what happened here in 2008.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u52	Mr. President. I can take my mind to the bottom of the word. Secretary of finance. In itself, looking back at all the unprecedented intervention of the banking system is a significant achievement. This is in the fall of 2008. In view of the short time spent in preparation and implementing that action, I think we can look back on a tremendous amount of pride and say: "It worked out tremendously well, given the most difficult circumstances. I agree with that word. Ministers that it is a great pleasure to see in many respects that this may be a permanent promotion of similar regulations - and not only here but also in the entire European market - which is to be effective in the necessary way, i.e. that it is the owners of these important financial companies as a warning to be careful in their business, that it will be the group of owners and possible demands that will remain if the financial system is mismanaged again. In the second question, I would have wanted to ask the highest. Minister to 2nd. The Committee is now working on the White Book of the financial system in harmony with the policy of the government. We have done a tremendous amount of work to reorganize the financial system here at home already. We've been implementing a considerable amount of European regulations. Here is another of the two key rules that are being introduced in the following weeks or months to complete this reorganization work. Considering that the wishes of the national financial system have been primarily allowed to work under the same conditions as the rivals of these enterprises elsewhere in the continent, I ask: I am standing before them to do much longer work on this white book work than when it is already being carried out, i.e. are Icelandic financial companies working conditions? [[The president calls.]] Or will we work out our main purpose in ensuring them as a competitive, business environment as usual in other parts of the continent?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u53	A respectable president. If I let myself read a word or two. I'm going to state my agreement that we need to make sure that the competitive environment is comparable when it comes to order. What most stands out at the moment in the material is the bank tax that we say in the financial programme that will stand for a reduction in the schedule period, which is highly unusual and is less than 0.5% there, and goes on the whole debt side of more than 50 billion. I don't think we have a single example that makes the competition with the laws and regulations harder than the tax. Other than that, there are no ideas of going further, as I put it up for my part. We enter into the work the conclusions of another committee specifically dealing with business banking and investment banking. I think we can totally work with a conclusion in the material that would not hinder the very competitive position of Icelandic financial companies that today is largely determined by the size of the economy and the credit rates. I'd like to use this second answer here to say that I'm afraid only that we've collapsed our waters too thoroughly into the financial companies. We are still ten years later hardening the rules and crowding with increased financial requirements, more recent, and now improving plans, feedback programs, and all these internal monitoring systems and other activities. We're still in the interest of taxes. In the meantime, though, the financial environment is changing. It rises up new phenomena and banks, as we knew 2008, will probably just not exist in 2028.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u54	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for giving us this speech and this bill. In fact, there are several factors that you wonder about, and the bill is quite large, so no doubt more questions will arise in recent discussions about it. V.E.G. A minister said that, perhaps natural, men were considering the requirements of a financial enterprise in Iceland. I don't think we're at that place, and I'm not sure that a minister was necessarily to mean it, that we should, absolutely, relax at those requirements. We have been severely burned by this financial system, so it is not unusual for humans to expect it. But I'd like to roll up to the highest. Ministers of this new Regulation, these new laws, will meet some high cost, whether the cost will follow this induction possible on financial companies itself and even monitoring agencies as well, i.e. The FEC, and what are the chances of this cost being considered by consumers, whether or not we are still watching it even more that the financial expenditures collected by their clients will go up and then have been evaluated for the cost of the bill. In itself, I think it's an improvement. It must be said at the present time, a respectable president, that it was a clean achievement performed by the 2008 emergency law. In effect, this law made us in a place today to say that we have gone beyond most other countries regarding the structure and restoration of society. It is sad, however, that one group then sat at the General Assembly, i.e. Left green, could not have shared in securing the laws that made the restoration possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u55	A respectable president. I may not have a very precise answer to this question about the cost, but it leads to the nature of the case that as they grow in the law for an enterprise to make plans such as the ones mentioned here and interact with the Rapporteur, it will cost some staff to do that. Whether this adds to the burden of our present - day rule is difficult to determine. At the same time, however, financial companies are changing dramatically. Let's just see this incredible reduction in branch offices that have taken place, which has led back to a reduced number of workers in financial companies. I think it can be assumed that the largest financial companies in the coming years will be reduced by about 10%, even more. This requires that the managers of the companies express themselves. But that's what I read about the development that's taking place on this market. Then there are areas for more attention. I understand that today's computer services in large financial companies may be behind 20% of all jobs in the companies, programming, and the like. Therefore, it is not good to give a final answer whether those who become responsible for dealing with the Rapporteur will become burdensome when considering the big picture. It may be saved at the same time because of changes in technology in other departments. I think there are a lot that would indicate that the companies should in the future be able to be more efficient units and thus reduce the budget for their clients.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u56	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for the answer. I don't think there's any chance that financial companies will start to reduce the costs, at least voluntarily, that they can collect from their clients. At least I haven't been able to do that. We may see that in the future. Even if practicality will increase, I think the temptation to take as much of the fees and extras as possible. So we must ask ourselves, and perhaps it is proper to ask a minister if there is any reason to go through the sources of financial companies they have to charge their customers for the others and these charges, this has become a great jungle pay that can be collected. That the bill itself, I wonder only if the bill like that is primarily meant to explain - and I admit it to the highest level. Minister that I have not managed to read this completely through - the authority that the state has and the surveillance institutions of the state or if they are also, perhaps at the same time, to ensure and increase the safety of individuals, the general public must live with when the financial system, if we say so, is as large, as predominant as it is in Iceland. I wondered, then, how much of the bill goes to the pension fund that is one of the biggest players in the Icelandic financial market today when it comes to lending, buying, selling shares, etc. I haven't been able to go through whether or not it reaches their companies.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u57	A respectable president. It is primarily a bill that affects financial companies who are employed by license as such and hence not in the pension fund. You're right. One senator says, there is reason to worry that more efficiency is being gained in a better business, but it is difficult to say otherwise than that, for example. The bank tax we've had here in the past few years is nothing more than a burden, and it is a burden on market competitive conditions. There is no other answer to the situation. A senator stopped here but did what governments can do to promote competition for this market. It is, of course, within the country, at the Icelandic home, but in the commercial market, competition is also at the outside and there is a considerable need for Icelandic financial companies to compete for the biggest pieces of the Icelandic business market. I have to refer only to the bill and the work ahead of me. I wish to cooperate best with the committee. I mentioned in my introduction that this is the first part of the implementation of this directive, and the latter part comes in the fall, and we hope we are strengthening the scope of the work of Icelandic financial companies. But I reiterate what I've made here that we need to be careful not to lose sight of the trend in this general field. There are a number of new players performing on the stage that are replaceing the financial institutions that are responsible for these legislations when it comes to financing different projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u58	Mr. President. As noted in the discussions about earlier meeting management, we have not had very long time to study the issues that are being discussed here today. But I just want to roll points as high as I can. The secretary of finance came in against us earlier, that in recent years, we just stop and think about the regular work we've created for the financial market. In the atmosphere here, especially in the early years after a collapse, where all the main focus of the government was naturally dealing with this tremendous shock, trying to ensure by all means that something like this could not happen again, we still have a serious risk of losing sight of the purpose of things; why we're doing this, why we're doing this, what are we doing with such a lot of attention and strong surveillance. But what is more important: What is this financial system for? That's what I'm afraid we've lost sight of today and the highest. That's exactly what a minister came in. At the same time that we've been busy trying to tighten all the rules of the system, especially about the business banks, tightening the requirements of these same business banks to prevent them from going back to the ground, tightening their surveillance and providing additional authority on the Rapporteurs, ensuring that the UN will now be equipped to prevent other events as in the autumn of 2008 can go back to looking for someone else: Are we ever undermined the competitiveness of this same financial system so that the kind of service that is, in fact, in fact, to provide a search for anything else? Then we look forward to a marked change from what was here over a decade ago that domestic banks could service the largest business in the country on loans. They are little or not competitive to such ones today, they do not have the access to the needed foreign financial resources, although they are indeed improving, and are simply not competitive with foreign banks. It's where a man first pauses to the enormously rich self-profit requirements we make, far beyond what is going on in our competitive countries, where we run the business banking system at a total of over a hundred percent of our financial debt, while most European banks think that I'm still right, or even less than 10% of my financial debt. It follows that in such circumstances, we do not reduce the interest cost of Icelandic homes or businesses. This, of course, brings enormous weight on both employment and home. I'm not going to minimize the importance of making room for the repeated events since the fall of 2008, for that was, of course, a huge crash, the cost of employment and home. Not to be overlooked, however, is the fact that the financial system is here to serve us, the citizens of the country, about loans and ensures that businesses can work here and abroad on competitive grounds for what is going on and happens in other European and global businesses. Even so, in our neighboring countries, our home has access to the amount of money we owe at a similar expense. Of course, the coins do have quite a bit of that, but they also have a lot to do with what our ultimate financial and financial cost is. I think the pendulum has come a little bit the other way. We need to start looking to how we can safely secure the security and security of our financial system in order to ensure that the public, business, home, can trust their inner concerns in the financial system, trust that it is there to serve, but just as much as we can trust that our financial system is competitive to its rivals on foreign suspicions and other rivals in this country. Also, we should not forget that at the same time as we have been adding to the burdens on our business banks, there are, for example, some of our business banks. The mortgage is moving more directly to the pension fund, which, in turn, can offer the homes a slightly more favorable rate than business banks. I welcome that competition, and I don't want to make it any limit at all. But I'm worried that these banks can no longer compete with them. When we are continuing to work with and shape the financial environment, we need to consider that we are not just pushing the financial system to something else, which may be what is happening. I'm worried about it and I think there's a reason to stop and ask myself, " What will be the quality of the Icelandic banking system if we're always pushing something else's best bites? ' If there are foreign banks that lend the biggest money, even the bonds we can say they are the second most used to finance here in the country or to various investment funds that have developed. It refers to the growth of a shadow - banking system. I don't want to call this a shadow banking system, it's just another kind of financial organization other than business banks. But it is clear that these parties are taking in an ever larger section of the financial system. There is now, and I would worry about it, a far less efficient quality of Icelandic loans, which are a guarantee of these same deep things that we're always trying to defend. We must not lose sight of these fundamental factors. In the end, what we are trying to ensure is, to prevent some cost from falling into the financial system, and that depositors can trust that their depositors are secure in the banking system. If we watch that the best business loans have gone second, the largest loans the households have gone somewhere else, i.e. The housing loans, which are the most reliable creditors in the entire financial system, while the building of this building, are probably the loans that, as a matter of fact, may be the least of the loans made by the entire financial institutions. We need to consider these factors. We must not force the financial system to force the loans in some other form, beyond the framework of the surveillance system we are trying to build. Therefore, I think that in addition to what we are discussing here is a very important induction of a very important design and it is extremely important that the financial system is living in a comparable level of control and management conditions as well as its rivals in other parts of Europe, we need to be particularly careful that we are also not taking unnecessary steps further than we are making ourselves with this induction, that we are not yet and again closing further on the work of Icelandic financial institutions and are looking at the overall picture, the overall effect this may have, not only on the other activities but also the possibility of pressing the loans if there are other factors. I remind you of that context, for example. in the debate we had yesterday at the council on the business of small loan companies, where we might well ask ourselves, " Do I have more severe demands on overwhelming? ' Therefore, I strongly encourage both the Commission's work in connection with the introduction to this production to be viewed very closely but similarly in the white book work being started by the government that we are considering this very carefully. I think it's time for us to reevaluate our approach to the financial system, how we want to take care of the surveillance and order around it. Not only with regard to the activities of the other surveillance party but also with other members of the so - called shadow system that has been growing together. That's also what I think, in view of the fact that the debate on the financial system, perhaps normal in view of events, has been quite negative. There is a chance that as much efficiency will develop in this way as it was at the time when the business bank or financial situation was the most important thing for us in the first decade of this century, the rise of adventures and everyone was happy, but the surveillance was not taken care of. It may now be that we are far too diligent in our surveillance, but we may not be sufficiently concerned with the work of these financial institutions, and we need to be careful about them. I think it is very important to listen to the financial system itself in these topics and say: "Let's secure them comparable conditions, comparable to competitive conditions, and they have banks and financial institutions that these same institutions have to compete with. We're supposed to focus on factors such as the self-finance and role of the Food Commission and on the time to combine factors such as financial monitoring and the World Bank monitoring program on the financial system, all to ensure the best of a surveillance system but at the same time that the least cost is due, because these costs end up in the world, in the world, in the economy. That's why I also rejoice when this government plans to revise the bank tax. Clearly, he has become a child of his time, has been raised in his time to encourage hatching in the fragmentation. Now that work is done very successfully. It is time to make sure that we are not taxing our financial system beyond our neighboring countries. I'm not gonna keep my words much longer this time. I strongly encourage the committee to examine very carefully on this directive that we are not enforcing this by any stiffer authority than is laid down in the Regulation itself, as soon as I stress my earlier words that, of course, this is a check-up and the sources here are being given enormously important for the long-term health of the financial system. But it is also important that we try to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u59	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. It was carried out, as was the frequent discussion of these matters, a little over what happened here in 2008 and what you're supposed to say, this financial bank in general. I began to think about listening to a fine talk. A senator, i.e. about when banks or financial institutions have become too big to fall, as it is called. Now we put restrictions and rules on those institutions because things have developed, so the government has to make sure that these designatedenterprises - which are generally private companies, although they still have something in banks - they're generally private companies -- the government has to make sure that these private companies do not go wrong because it's so terrible for society. I feel that this basic concept of capitalism is so inconceivable that a business should be able to go upside down. When someone fails to perform the competition, someone doesn't perform in some way, they're to go under, and the rest are to survive. It's the theory as I understand it. When we talk about the financial system, I feel that there are some basic factors that should allow capitalism to go up to the length of time to be slightly broken, at least Turn. This, however, is a bit of a mystery to me. This is actually perhaps the biggest reason why I don't call myself a capitalist in everyday speech, though I find things completely logical in the theory, it's just because when the theory is applied to reality, these things come up as if the state has to make a special impression that they don't fall. I know that in a speech or two. But early in the talk, the senator said something that made me think about it. I'm very interested in what I hear. A senator feels about these things, that institutions are too big to fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u60	President. Thank you. A senator resists. I think it's always very dangerous, and it doesn't in itself care what market it is, that we think of our company as too big to fall, that they can't go over, or that it requires that state run under the bag and save the company in some way. As I understand the basic nature of this Regulation, and as with our response to the financial crisis back then, it should in itself be a clear lesson or clear message to the demands and owners of financial institutions, that such measures must be made, at their expense first, i.e. that the property of owners clearly disappears, and the demands may be in a severely impaired position if such measures need to be taken. But it was quite clear that the view of the banking system, not just here on land, but in the whole world, was that institutions that were so large would never get to go wrong. Governments in those countries would always run and save things. That's never a good sign. It is only very healthy and healthy that companies, their owners and demands, eventually have to be responsible for how to manage the business. As a matter of fact, I think this may be related to the maybe time now, too, in the traditional business-based model of reevaluation insurance. I think this has become a problem of time in general, in terms of the wide range of savings that exist, that it is being offered a state insurance policy of that kind. We have a state-of-the-art savings form called government bonds. We may just have to leave it there, that banks just have to compete for money on the exact basis that others have to do without a state or some sort of insurance system being established. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u61	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Whatever it is. A senator spoke of, i.e. the attitude that the state would not allow the banks to fall, has sometimes been called, forgive English, honorable president, socialism, or company dissatisfaction. Was the idea that socialism was for bankers and capitalism for all the others. How much there is to it, I'm going to let others appreciate it. But what I'm wondering right now, because of what I'm doing. A senator mentioned in his speech and made a little effort to stop us going too far in the other direction, that now all of us nod when someone proposes to increase the inhibition of financial activity because of our experience in 2008. I readily admit to being one of them. I'm really into keeping the banks and financial institutions under control because I think there's actually some basic defects in how this system works all together, and we need, unfortunately, what some call custody, but is really just a safety network. The reason for these rules is the public. This isn't the private stuff of the bank owners. That's the whole point. That's why we're discussing this at first. Now that we're starting to set these restrictions, and as I say, people just nod the idea, I wondered how it fits into a model where men should be able to start a business, and they're supposed to be able to go wrong. This is the other side because instead of saving the banks, it's a good idea now that they'll never fall. The same question arises in my mind about how the competitive model that a capitalist system is to function if we have made sure that this specific part of the country and the world is so well protected from the rules and laws and custody, if they want to call it, that it cannot fall. Is this not a little amiss the idea of how a corporate market is going to work?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u62	President. Thank you. Once again, a senator resists. This is an interesting subject. Of course, we need to consider this when talking about systemal important organizations and that specific rules need to be set or especially high standards for them. In the end, what is their purpose? What kind of service do they serve as institutions to society? This is an intermediate in the provision of funding in the economy from the owners of the capital to those who need it. But we also need to realize that a financial market has changed since this belief may have been dominant when people were avoiding a bank attack since the Great Depression of the past century. Our savings and means of saving are far more diverse, and more access to the public is that stock markets, government bonds, other savings, than deposit, are huge. You ask: If we're putting all this order on finance or especially business banks first in order to ensure exactly the internal protection and that this rule of action and the requirements we're going to make will eventually be so expensive that a large percentage of the customers are looking for something else, they're simply noncontestable, not comparable to terms, for what is the protection? What is the purpose of the game if we have really pushed the same funding to any other place in the financial system, and the remainder of the banking system, with its deposit, is a significant disintegration of property? Then I think maybe we need to stop and start asking ourselves some of the basic questions again: Is this an invaluable protection? Are these organizations not allowed to fail? [[The president calls.]] Maybe we should consider some way in which we're not doing law and order today?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u63	The president would like to remind members of the Parliament that although the matter is Icelandic, it is permitted to open some other language as long as it is also translated and requested by the president. This is the principle. Some people want to forget it. Some presidents even forget it themselves and are scolding men for it. However, this is lawful under the law of the Parliament as long as the rendering of the words is rendered in English.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u64	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct the change in various legal requirements for taxes and fees. The bill suggests changes in tax laws of different ways. These include tax deduction from stock markets, expeditation of public pay pressures, violations of appeals to reduce income tax stocks, tributaries of income tax taxes on the income of a person's income from an outlet, electronic communications, the release of stress, and, ultimately, balance due to taxes and pay. I'm going to discuss some of the unique details of the bill quite in detail. This is the first tax deduction due to the stock market: Here, first, there should be changes in tax returns due to the stock market in the form of income tax subsidies, to encourage individuals to buy stocks as savings forms, and thereby to further use of this tax subsidies. The fact is that the conditions that individuals and communities need to meet will be reduced and simplified. First, it is assumed that the individual and the partner he intends to invest in as a result of partial financial growth will no longer have to meet the conditions that are related to the Society and the conditions for the community itself and its activities for the upcoming period of financial growth. The need for an individual and partner under current law to continue to meet the requirements for the predetermined period after a partal increase in the enterprise is expected to reduce motivation for making use of the deduction. It is also suggested that an individual who intends to take advantage of tax recovery from the stock market should not be an employee of the company he intends to invest in. This proposal should have a positive effect on the part-of-the-part growth and to improve the recovery process. Second, there is a change in the day of individual stress and legalization. It suggests that a person's day of stress and legalization will be rushed by about one month. Thus, individuals will be published about the month - to - month conventions of May ◯ and the application of legalized materials in September ◯ October of this year. It is also suggested that the further period of stress, now two months, be extended to three months. In recent years, the application of individuals has been performed at the end of July and the application of the legislation by the end of October. All tax recovery has now become automatic and hears manual payment for the exception. In addition, due to all overview of national terms and taxpayers' needs, it is more appropriate that the introduction of public taxes is immediately available. The first step was the conversion of subjects to one month, i.e. to the June ▪ July, issue of the month, but the bill suggests that a new step will be taken along with further pressure of individuals until the end of May, with a quick period of one month, stated until the end of September. Third, a source for the reduction in income taxation is discussed. It's a coincidence. The bill suggests a minor change in the terms of income taxation that allows the head of state taxation under certain circumstances to reduce income taxation and the subject's yields, i.e. So-called indiscretions. After the tax manager's office was united under the management of the head of the head of the European Commission at the beginning of 2010, there is a law on income taxation for Ministers to set a more specific requirement for such requests. Up to now, the governor has set rules on the requirements for the alleged errors and guidelines of wills as accurately as possible on the basis of the law. The bill therefore suggests that this warrant be dismissed, but rather than stated that the head of the taxpayer at the beginning of each year, having received the confirmation of a minister, should issue further conditions for the granting of the appeals according to the regulations of the law. It's time to rent an apartment house. With law No. 59/2017 changes were made in income tax laws, making clear distinctions between the tax-employment treatment of housing from house to house on whether it was rent-in-laws, homemaking under restaurants, restaurants and entertainments, and other rent-in-a-houses or independent activities. In the bill of law No. 59/2017 was originally referred to as rent to permanent depositors, but at the treatment of the network bill, there was a suggestion to refer further to the renting of an apartment house that fell under rent law. The majority of the economic and business committees considered them to be clearer and were converted to that. It has been observed that similar changes have been made in one form of income taxation layers, which still refer to older language. It is suggested that wording be adjusted so as to fit in, but in this respect the suggestion does not involve any change of nature. Because of this, there is no change in subject. A respectable president. Then I'm going to step in here on electronic communication and electronic displays. The bill suggests e - mail communications between individuals and companies and the source of pressure on public expenses. As most people know, electronic returns on tax returns have been taken up in stages during the past few years with very good results. At first, legal authority was authorized for the head of the government to decide that hired persons and businesses should provide tax returns in computer equipment. People outside the workplace later came in. It is now suggested that the above laws be united and united. There is also reason to make clear that the results of stress can be generally reported to the respondents electronically. Almost all of the graduates communicate electronically with the tax authorities and get the necessary information on the government tax manager's web site or on their service site. Thus, the delivery of stress notes on paper is fraught with this trend, resulting in an increasing number from year to year that rejects the written welcome of the stress check, and it seems that there is a clear reason to allow the results of pressures to be generally reported to the players electronically. As electronic communications increase, environmental protection, management management, and effective communication are being guided by individuals and companies, as well as by the increasing demand of the electronic information community in most areas. Next time, I'm going to go to debt. These are presented with adjustments in terms of the balance of taxes due to unsupervised public pay. In accordance with tax laws, it is obliged to pay the same amount of demands against ownership regardless of the time limit to form in the cost tax. According to the requirement of bankruptcy, it is required that the requirement for the swelling of the lender's hands be established prior to the deadline that is the day of the district judge's request for permission to stop payment or to seek a harsh agreement or for bankruptcy. Thus, tax laws and bankruptcy conflict with this, as shown by the Supreme Court of Justice No. 329/2016. The judge considered the bankruptcy to be a special law that went beyond the tax law's obligations in this respect, and since the requirements for remuneration of merit taxation were all due to a temporary date, in that particular case, there was agreed to the swelling company's demand for a review of payments required by the customs manager's balance on credits due to unrewarded public pay. Remuneration of paypayers and credit taxes, along with other fees, are so-called fiscal taxes and should only be temporary in the management of enterprises and are never owned by anyone other than government funds. It is suggested that income tax laws, credit taxes, public pay fees, and tax exchange pay be added regulations that require payment due to the introductions in the periods prior to the decision of bankruptcy, despite the provision of bankruptcy laws. Therefore, commitment will be required whether or after a bankruptcy date is required, according to bankruptcy, it is abnormal to depend on the timing of a person's choosing to submit reports or when it is due. A respectable president. The proposed legal adjustments in this bill are not expected to have a significant impact on the survival of the State Fund. If the bill is a law, it is an infinite influence. Current options - maybe now I should have said this a little different. It's not a major influence, but it's not countless, it's just not counting. If this bill goes uncontaminated, we will not see a great effect on the survival of a government fund. The current treatment to reduce income tax stocks from stocks introduced into law a few years ago has had a much less impact on the income of the state's budget than expected. At the pressures of 2017 and the income of 2016, there were 30 individuals who dropped their income tax stocks together only about 18 million by means of the strategy. It is difficult to tell how many individuals will come to take advantage of the resources when conditions that have been met have been reduced, but in view of the pressures of 2017, the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs assesses this so that it may be expected that 200 people will benefit from the tax recovery of income taxes. This means that income loss would be able to study some 28 million and only 12 million of your community. It is then assumed that the changes in terms of paying dues and paying will prevent the possible loss of income from the state's money due to a torn debt as a result of the Supreme Court's trial. 329/2016. Other changes in the bill are considered to have little or no effect on the survival of the State Fund. A respectable president. According to this, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u65	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize the termination of the law on the Farmer's Pension Fund, No. 12/1999, with subsequent changes. The bill is in accordance with the nominees recommended at the 145th and 146th legislators'Council. From force of law No. 12/1999 of the Farmer's Penitentiary has worked with the objective and organization that distinguishes from law No. 129/1997, of the related insurance rights and the work of pension funds, with subsequent changes, of funds and approved for them. The current fund laws require authorization for state funds to pay the remuneration of farmers' financial funds. From the 1970's fund office, a total of or whole contributions were made against a fund of funds provided by each year's budget and calculated on the basis of price paid under the domestic contract. After the collapse, contributions from the state fund to the pension fund were removed in resources, and from the beginning of 2013 onward, the payment for the pension fund has been fully paid by sources of funds, as is generally true of those who are engaged in employment or independent work. In view of these changes in predecessors, there is no reason for specializing the fund. It is suggested that the funds work solely on the basis of law No. 129/1997, of the related insurance rights and the business of pension funds, and of it approved, as most pension funds do. The failure of the law will not disrupt the rights of any of the people who have enjoyed legal rights out of the fund, where breaking of the law will not prevent them from being guaranteed in the approved funds and on the general foundation as law no. 129/1997, the related insurance of pension rights and the operation of pension funds, is required. The bill suggests that the petition's Penitentiary Fund is removed from July 1, 2018, and that the current fund's administration takes the initiative to adapt the approval of the fund to the legal requirements of the law No. 129/1997, on the related insurance of pension rights and the operation of pension funds, with subsequent changes, and in this way change for financial and economic ministers to be approved no later than in May 2018. It is thus assumed that the funds will be confirmed as soon as the law expires on July 1, 2018, and that a new government will begin on the basis of the approved trust for the fund. It is of nature that the committee is involved. evaluating whether this date can remain unchanged, or whether it should be taken into account that the matter is on the agenda now after the Passover. You may need to move something to these dates if at any other table there is more to settle the matter here. I just have to think about it. It is then recommended that the state's budget guarantees the expenses of a pension payment on a donor who is born in 1914 or earlier or who is in debt for pension pay to his or her spouse. So here it is suggested that the state's budget be billed expenses for these groups. These are acquired rights of a fundmate or spouse already guaranteed by a government fund but 9.9 million in the past year, compared with 12.7 million in 2016. According to this, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u66	Mr. President. V.E.G. The secretary of finance correctly stated that this is being removed for the third time, I think I'm remembering right, and it came in. to be discussed at the council last year. You stop, it's a simple matter, something we're supposed to be able to go through at the council, but last year the reviews came, which even happened. pointed to women's rights. Farmer's Penitentiary Fund was founded in 1974, but women were not involved in the fund until 1984, including farm mates, who are then deeply dependent on these payments. I was going to know if these comments had been taken into account, and if they had been the reason why the matter had not been settled during our last assembly, I would have felt that it was not settled. My question to the highest. A minister is: Has the rights of these women, since most of the time these mates are women, were taken care of during a review and a contract on this bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u67	A respectable president. Early legal opinion, in response to the concerns involved in the wedding pension, has been established during the therapy of the body of Congress. According to the bill itself, plus the legal entity I'm here to refer to, the rights of those involved are not restricted to the change here. In my historical background, I concluded that we do not suggest that we use special funds. On the other hand, the rights that a person would like to value for a bank member or their spouse in the approved fund might be more likely to test it there, but this is certainly a factor that has caused the Council Committee to hesitate to resolve the matter so far. I may have had a time crisis, but as the matter seems to me, there are no material comments that should be put out of the way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u68	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the budget for a detailed answer I consider important to the work of the Committee. I think it's urgent that she reviews these exact factors. In itself, I do not comment on an answer to the highest. Ministers, for this is the way I understand the case myself after reviewing the evidence. I have to admit, though, that people have been worried about this. I believe it is important that the committee should have time to examine this and tell them exactly what the Lawgiver's will is. Looks like he's looking at me, even. in answer to the highest. Secretary of finance.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u69	I appreciate it, and I'll say it with a what. Senator. I think it is absolutely inevitable that a very clear view of the council will be taken on the tip that has shown on this particular pension right. I trust that once again it will be reviewed by committees, and after incidents it will be unveiled if needed in appropriate places, in committees, possibly after a discussion with the fund's authorities, I shall not say so, but our conclusion is that no further adjustment of the bill is required.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u70	A respectable president. So I have a theory that this case is under a spell, that was a 666th matter at Council 145, and that's why it's going so hard to get through. No joke, I'm gonna ask about it the same way I do. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir asked about earlier. I've observed this legal dispute between the Farmer's Penitentiary and the Ministry of finance in comments to the council. I have not actually seen any committee opinion coming out of the past contributions and treatments that have settled the case, but the argument of the Ministry of finance is certainly there and in itself clear. However, I wondered, " Is the care of a farmer's Penitentiary to be met by simply setting temporary regulations, e.g. In the law of a pension fund, or of anything like it, that it cannot be met in some way. While you may take some position on this legal issue, it does not necessarily have to be there. I also have a little real concern about this because it was revealed in the review of my time that farmers' Pension Fund wouldn't trust themselves to sign this thing without correction. Whether it's legal or not, it's still something I'm afraid of. Then the Ministry of finance, such as pointing to the Farmer's Penitentiary, can say that they are wrong. All right. Well, it's happened anyway. I think it can be avoided, or I wonder, wondering about it, and, as I say, I have not seen the committee's opinion on this matter. But I wondered, " Is it not possible to cope with this anxiety? '
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u71	A respectable president. For example, I have no comment on man's viewing of such routes. The important thing is that we do not feel that the provision for farmers' Pension Fund is no longer necessary and we believe that the approved funds, which would then be based on the general law on pension, should be an adequate environment for the operation. If there are opinions like those mentioned in this article, you may be aware that they will be examined and all options tested to bring about all disagreements on this subject. I would expect the committee to consider once again, as has happened in previous traffic with this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u72	A respectable president. I'm not interested in the provision of farmers' Pension Fund. I don't make any comments about the removal of the law. I sometimes feel that people choose the wrong reason to fight with perhaps unnecessary delays and unnecessary conflicts. But now it seems so fun that I'm so lucky, I'm in the privileged position of being in a financial and business committee that's being discussed. I look forward to dealing with it, and I think of some compromise so that this strange dispute can be resolved. I don't expect an answer from the highest degree. A minister unless he wishes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u73	A respectable president. I recommend another matter involving the pension system. This is a bill to legalize the law on the Penitentiary of Government Pension No. 1/1997, with subsequent changes. The bill suggests two changes in the law on the Treasure of Pension rights. First, there is a suggestion that various laws of the Congregation Fund of Pension rights, which are in accordance with the law of No. 129/1997, on the related insurance of pension rights and the activities of pension funds, the so - called pension fund, which operates in the main policy of the Congregation in the same way as other pension funds. In some cases, changes in the pension laws require changes in the fund's laws while other pension funds working on the basis of the pension laws and their approved ones only need to make changes in approved ones because of such changes. The fund of pension rights operates on the basis of laws on the insurance policy of pension rights and the operation of pension funds, No. 129/1997, Code on Penitentiary of Pension rights, No. 155/1998, and approved for the fund. With law No. 155/1998, the Congregation Fund is reserved for no other role than other pension funds except that it is intended to be the pension fund for the employee/subjects who do not have a collective partnership with other funds, such as Article 6. The pension law. At the same time, the fund has a role, according to the 47th grade. The pension law, when the pension fund no longer meets the requirements for the license of pension funds and a supervisor has been appointed over the fund. It is not necessary that the fund's specialties contain regulations that are in accordance with the Pentateuch. In harmony with this, it is suggested that any provision in the fund be put away, which includes the same rights and responsibilities as laid down in the Pension Act. Second, it suggests that the number of reserves in the management board of the fund will be reduced from seven to two. Experience shows that there is no reason to maintain the current number of backups. Hence, it would be proper to suggest that the number of those in the management board of the fund be reduced. Encouraging regulations assume that 1st pars. the bill, which includes a reduction in the number of backups, will take effect when the time of the command of the current government is completed, i.e. in 2020. Other changes may already take effect. A respectable president. To this end, I suggest that the bill be referred to why. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u74	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize the law on the Penitentiary Fund of Government Pension, No. 1/1997, with subsequent changes. On January 1, 2018, no. 116/2016 who changed the Social Security Act, No. 100/2007, and more songs. The changes allow individuals to take half of the pension from the state's insurance agency from 65 years of age, provided that all related employment-related pension funds, as an individual's rights, have authorized funds to take half of their pension. If this warrant is valid for a bank bank member at the Bank of Pension Services Department, the Department of Pension is required to change the laws on the staff of the state that this bill is about. The bill suggests two changes to the law on the LS. First, there is the requirement for taking a half pension from the B department's Department to reduce its employment rate to half a job if he is in a position to be involved in the B-section of the fund or would have been granted the right to an Member State in the RlR 1 January 1997. Part-of-a-work means that a credit card in Ward B-lR to take half of a pension can neither learn more or less proportion than 50% in order to keep him involved in the B-section of the fund. However, a partner is allowed to reduce his employment rate to less than half a job, but this lost the right to the Member State of the B department of the fund. The B-market LS was shut off for new remunerations and funds at the end of 1996 by law No. 141/1996, with which changes were made in the welfare system of government employees. The B department is only to a small extent funded by the industry and their yield but, to the greater extent, by due time paid by the remunerationpayers and state funds, as agreed at 32rd and 33. track No. 1/1997. Thus, the B Department's Penitentiary has only a small share of fund collections and is mainly building funding on the overflows. If you were authorized to take half a pension from the fund without any condition, it would likely mean that most active funds would be useful at 65 years of age. This would increase the commitment of the fund to up to 10 billion dollars. In view of the B-DLR's pension fund, where retirement is a requirement for the removal of a pensional pension from the fund, it must be considered reasonable to bind permission to take half of the pension from the B Company because it's the condition that a business partner reduces his employment ratio to half a job. Presidents who pay in Ward ISR and have so-called C-C rights need also to have left behind to take a pension from Ward B if the job had granted the right to an Member State member of the fund's Institute for the Fund's A-section. As such, it is assumed that the decrease in employment rate also applies to them. Second, it is suggested that the percentage of extra rights to a spouse's pension take into account the pay ratio of the deceased person to start in half of his pension, not taking into account the employment rate at his death. A respectable president. To this end, I suggest that the bill be referred to why. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u75	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct any change in health care laws, the law on the issues of the elderly and the health insurance laws. The bill is designed to equal the access of those who need a residence or a day's rest so that all who need that service can enjoy it regardless of their age. According to local requirements, resources from day to day and space are intended only for the elderly. With the bill it is intended that the same value be observed in space as it is during the day, i.e. stay based on professional health assessments, regardless of age. For a long time, there have been cases where there have been a request to stay in the local areas and for the day, despite the age of 67. There's been a need for such extraditeties. By the change in the legislation proposed, it will be permitted to provide an exception to the age conditions for living and day living, but the bill suggests that Article 24. Law on Health Care, No. 112/2008, will be changed so that health insurance will be made clear to services provided by nurses, residents, and day-to-day agreed by IV. the part of the law. The change has been designed to bring relief to the current project on residence and daylight. The bill also contains regulations that are intended to be set up in the laws on the affairs of the elderly for Ministers to discuss the arrangements of a professional team and the requirements of assessment of the need for stay in the day. Then there is expected to be a change in the laws on the affairs of the elderly, so instead of maximising the cost of an individual's day-by-day participation in the unscrupulous nature of the individual will be compared to 18% of full-time pension according to 23 g. Act on social security. Since January 1, 2017, the law required the removal of basic pensioners. 116/2016, about changes in social security laws and other laws, when the pension groups of old-time pensioners were united. The money level of the new pension is much higher than the sum of the older basic pension, so it seems necessary to change the provision so that, according to a certain percentage of the new pensions that correspond to the previous amount of the basic pensions of nursing patients, they will be given the higher rates that have been paid for social security. A respectable president. I have explained the basic principles of the bill and allow it to be suggested. The welfare committee and the 2nd Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u76	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the speech and contributions on this bill. I wanted to take advantage of this opportunity to discuss the fact that younger ones stay in nurses and error may arise in service, since the needs of the ministry may vary greatly in younger ones. I wanted to bring up the matter because, on the other hand, they know how to spend more or how to need a different service that costs more, if a minister could enter it, although it may not be directly related to this bill. Today, some nursing homes have increased funding and have developed a special service for younger ones and have been able to offer more specialized services, such as the Breiðsholti. I'd like to have the Minister's vision of those factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u77	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this indication. As shown in her case, this may not be part of the immediate subject of the bill, but it is truly a subject for discussion. I've had a meeting at the Ministry of Health, which is exactly where different kinds of nursing homes are met, and that allows you to say different expenses for the service it receives. This is one of the things you see. I don't think there's any exaggeration that we're very aware of this part in the Ministry of Health in the solution of such concerns, but it's basically the legal principle that we can't discriminate people according to our age into this particular health policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u78	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers of answers and agree that it is important, of course, that they do not differ according to age. I realize that there are many factors to consider when selecting individuals. One reason is that people can stay in their own homes and in their own neighborhoods. Then it's often the best way. But I just wanted to call attention to the situation that exists and maybe the importance of looking to more specialized suggestions for younger ones. I realize that we will never be able to do that in all the land, but perhaps in the capital area, we may have the advantage of being able to offer such a choice.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u79	President. I still thank you for those tips. This is one of the factors that we need to share when trying to cover over existing services and then to examine both the change in age composition and the changes in health and social standards that call for new and changed options and different combinations of them. This is one of the factors that need to be underneath. I expect these aspects of health policy to be discussed and thanked. A senator for that indication.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u80	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for putting in this bill. It is in the spirit of what the person here has already spoken, i.e. taking out a long age limit in all kinds of services, and it's a good thing. But I would like to ask the highest. Minister on the warrant in Article 3. the bill on Regulation due to a professional assessment team on conditions for the day-to-day. The highest. A minister informs us whether such work has begun in the Ministry on this Regulation agreement? If so, there will be a problem. When it comes to that work, does the welfare committee not know what to do?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u81	A respectable president. Working at the Ministry is under way, and I think it's a good idea. A senator who is the vice president of the welfare committee is here asking that the committee be informed of the work as it seems. That request is presented to the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u82	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. The question does not come unprovoked, as does one from this discourse. It may be necessary sometimes to resort to measures like these on relatively short notice, and I would like the Ministry to keep in mind that such a process of assessment should not be too taxing or extreme, but it still needs to be professional, as it is stated. I'm going to let me do the highest work. Minister of that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u83	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for business. I agree with what. paritaprevir For example, Þór Gunnarsson's Ólafur, this has been discussed for a considerable period of time, and it is quite urgent to correct the issue that most people are old and relevant to their ability to obtain. However, I would like to ask, in view of the situation, because there is a chance that the cost may increase with this, normally, there is an increase: has been an estimate of the potential cost? How's the top? A minister of over 65 - year - olds who are already waiting for provisions? Will this extend that waiting list? Is money an earmark for this task?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u84	A respectable president. This change in the arrangement is not expected to result in significant cost increases. There's something that must be revealed. But it is true. A senator points out that this may be so that the nature of the case will be limited by others who are waiting for nurses, etc. At the same time, we expect a significant increase in the number of nurses in the financial program today, which is better presented in a financial program. I figure we're on the plan to increase by 300 from the previous one, i.e. Over a five - year period, 250 new compartments were expected to be added to 300, allowing 550 space over a five - year period. The demand will likely be answered faster than today, which is the goal of action.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u85	Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. It is good to know that this is being cooperated because great policy has long been taking place in the care of the elderly and is lacking in a long - term strategy. So it's good if it goes together now. We all know that the mental and spiritual well - being of people, especially the elderly, often plays a role in physical and mental health, so that they too are important there. There has certainly been a measure of concern over the criticism that has been heard since the Game Team, which is now a household visitor to most people throughout the media of these days. The Homepage of the Ministry of Health shows that there is now a particular application, so if checked, some questions might be answered. I'd like to wonder if it's the highest. A minister has some perspective on how much effort is involved in these matters, a lengthy and clear vision, needed to reduce the need for these spaces, how to improve mental health care, and the need for this group for space play together. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u86	A respectable president. It's a shame to have only a few seconds to deal with this. According to the General Health Programme of 2016, mental health is expected to take place throughout the country. This means that they are really part of a phase one service or first contact through health care. We are thus strengthening the forwardness as well as the elderly. We have been discussing it with the health professionals in the capital area that likely, and it has actually happened to them, the health care needs to take more initiative in reaching out to the elderly to find out about their service needs before acting, as it were. As we are reaching out for more people at home, we are increasing the possibility that people may want to stay at home longer because we are increasingly aware that the need for service is very personal, and we do not solve the need for service just by building a nursing room.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u87	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for the transfer on this matter. In many respects the matter of justice, i.e. that those who have not reached the age of 67 may enjoy that privilege. But I'd like to follow up on a question. A senator who before me spoke about mental health. It is not only young people, although bad, who have mental health problems, that are also the older ones. Has a minister had some evaluation of how this might affect the day and so on, i.e. if the number of those in need of mental - health care increases, especially when it is clear that the minister has already knocked the door to the power of Mind and is making changes that have not taken effect? We must ask if the minister usually has some perspective on whether he will raise the number of potential older and older citizens who need help when the door to mind is closed? As I have understood the minister, all over the country mental health is expected, but they are not taken into operation if I know the right thing to do. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u88	A respectable president. Yes, indeed, some mental - health teams have already started, both in the East and in the East, next in line are the western teams in the capital area. Hv. A senator for information is the Conspiracy of an organization, but I suppose that's what it is. A senator is a mental - health assistant who is a mental - health professional who has been in the state of Reykjavík. That plan will be reduced, along with the services offered to all those served there, by other measures in the health care of the capital area. Because of what? In my opinion, a senator specifically asked about older ones and mental health matters, which have been very little in the discussion. I believe we need to focus on him, especially on the pharmaceutical issues. We've seen very high numbers there that have to do with e.g. both anti-anxiety and hypnotics in the elderly. I think that's one of the things we need to clean up in our other good health systems.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u89	A respectable president. I realize, but thank you, Minister, for trying to instruct me that Heal is a member of the Union, an important group of members that the Minister and the government have not wanted to have so far, just as a minister threw the door on nurses recently. The bill shows that consultations have been made with a insurance institution. I wondered if there was any consultation with the European Union on these laws and this matter, since, undeniably, local societies come to this level. Therefore, we must ask: Has there been any consultations?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u90	A respectable president. I suppose that's what. The welfare board sent the case to the address, and this allows the European Union to make it available to its members. That's my attitude, just like cot. A senator who appeared in a previous answer, that this is primarily a matter of justice that is involuntary and beneficial to the inhabitants of this country. Here is a case that with good intentions should be one of which members of the Parliament across the council should be able to agree to complete the council as a legal remedy for the Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u91	V.E.G. President. I thank the Minister for the transfer of this bill. We can agree that this is a matter of justice, as was shown in the brief answer to my previous and reply to a minister. This is a matter of justice because it is needed, but it may not be the age that matters when people need this service. This does not change the cost of such a service. If I've understood the highest. Ministers are right, they are not expected for a dollar, not for any extra money to be added to this project or in the service given there. So we must ask the secretary that it is in view of the fact that there has not been a single phone call to the European Union regarding this bill. At the very least, the minister did not say that the local community had been consulted. Rather, he pointed out that the committee should consult by talking to the rural communities. In some parts of the country, I have to admit that I don't know exactly what this is like in Reykjavík, that my community is in our day - to - day service, and what we can call daycare, or that older citizens are getting some kind of help and service during the day, but they don't have to go into institutions. The secretary will return completely empty when it comes to this. We have no idea here at this point in this matter all of which will bring us any expense. It is obvious, however, that the waiting lists for the service arrangement are going to be extended because as soon as a person begins to improve his righteousness by allowing others to want more of them to serve. In order to cope with a waiting situation, we must place more money on our project. Apparently, they don't come from the government. If there is to be a response to the obvious demand, the local community should be asked to put out of the way in which this case is presented. Thus, we must ask and wonder whether it is natural for the State to come up again with a case that can certainly be viewed as a matter of righteousness, but it simply throws responsibility into the community or to any institutions that provide this service or to the communities who participate in it. Is that normal? Is that fair? No, of course not. This is just what has often been spoken of here in the Parliamenties and with the councilmen that they cannot be right. But of course, I hope that if there is a cost, the government will respond and bring more money into the service strategy involved here. It cannot be natural for someone else to really pay for this or for the institutions that render this service today simply to take it out of their limited resources at any given time. I can imagine that even some investments have to be made to cope. In some places it is clear that the amount of time available for service has become relatively narrow and small, so we must respond too. Once again, we come to the point where things cost something. It is beautiful and good to agree on increasing justice, but we must also answer the question of how we will bring forth righteousness. One thing is to present such a language that looks beautiful, another if it cannot be handled successfully.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u92	President. I want to thank you. A senator's interest in this matter and his concern about the cost. In fact, the report on the case shows that according to our opinion, there should be no expense spikes on the bill because the amount of space in this particular resource is not increasing, it is not up to date. However, we are increasing the number of nurses. That's different. This matter is not of particular importance. So we have a location in a new financial program. I hope so. A senator can agree with me that it is long time to increase the number of nurses here. I also hope that the senator will agree that the space involved here should be open to people regardless of their age. This, then, is based primarily on professional assessment of each individual's situation. I think we can agree on that without going to some angle on this particular case, because I don't think it's of the degree to which it is. A senator needs to rely very loudly on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u93	A respectable president. I can't quite figure out what the top is. Minister is leaving because it has a bill that lowers age to a certain group of citizens of the country who have to attend a certain service. For those who may be allowed to serve from 67 years of age, the reference age is being reduced, and it is really an estimate of who needs to receive that service. As a result, others who reach out for the ministry must have the right to serve. If space increases are not to be increased or increased, the extent of the activity being maintained today should be improved, i.e. More people can pick up the job or pick up the ministry - if you have 20 spaces e.g. in newspapers at any home, some medical facility in the country or in Reykjavík, 20 space today, and there are 22 who want to come, two are on a waiting list, and then you suddenly add to 20, instead of being two on a waiting list, are you just going to keep it on the list, or are you going to expand the service to get more? That's what they're asking. Clearly, the State and Minister are not going to bring extra money into the ministry. I'm not talking about nursing, I'm talking about what it says on the bill; day, daycare, or what we call it. That's what it's all about. A minister doesn't need to have outbacks here, talking about room in that case, just answering the question: Should the funds be followed so that they can be increased by space or space, or what do we call it, for those who will be added to the waiting list?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u94	A respectable president. I don't know exactly what to do with it. A senator will conduct this discussion, but I hope he will. The welfare committee reviews the matter and will read its accompanying information, including the report in which these matters are considered in a clear way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u95	A respectable president. I come up here to encourage the highest. President to encourage the highest power. A minister to answer the questions addressed to the minister. The minister comes up here and gives it up to sign or the person standing here doesn't understand what it's all about, to involve nurses into it. The question simply is: If you are going to increase the number of people who can apply for some type of service, is the ministry increasing, not the list of waiting? Presumably. Then we must ask ourselves: " Is there no ambition for the government, with a health minister, to place extra money on that service so that the waiting list will not be prolonged? The answer is no, it's clear. The answer is no. Don't get any money in there. It should only increase the number of those who can receive the ministry, but it should not be tried to increase the number of those who can get in and receive it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u96	A respectable president. I want to continue this discussion as a matter of course. A senator comes along because he talks about, and now I'm talking about experience. A senator, too, at the highest. Ministers, although it was another Ministry of Education, have reason to worry about presenting a legal bill that will involve a measure of expense, no matter how much the cost is involved. For he does not fall into temptation, but in that there is more to the ministry. Ergo: This calls for improvement in the ministry so that those who are left behind will be no worse than those who do in the past, i.e. over 67 years of age today Is that the case? The senator said that once this route is gone, making changes without being exactly where it is possible, and how it is financed, that the rural communities will be stuck with it?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u97	A respectable president. I appreciate the question. I was also a member of the unit for some years, and I know this from the side where the local community I lived in, and I still live, and I was in a rural government that ran the service discussed in cooperation with the local health center. As a result, I know that there is a great demand for this. Of course, as the clientele is growing, the demand for something far greater increases. This is the problem, one of many, with the problem we do here at the General Assembly, and perhaps especially when ministers present such cases as this, which in itself is a good matter, it is a good thing to turn these laws into the one they are dealing with, that there is no solution for all of these people to allow them into this situation that is so necessary. Of course, some who need to get ahead of others because they have changed their age. We know exactly how it is, but there is no increase in the speech, so, in fact, the demand problem that exists is not being solved and will be there. I don't like it. Of course, the pressure on rural communities or those who run this service, health institutions in consultation with or in cooperation with rural areas is increasing. The pressure to get in is growing as the list of waiting increases, of course. Will rural society be able to add more money to this? Will they possibly have to raise their expenses in order to get more involved? There's something we can't answer here, and obviously the Minister won't answer it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u98	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. I agree with what's been going on here, and I kind of reiterate what I said earlier that it's a good thing, but it just has to be made so that someone else doesn't get hurt. I think we can all agree that those over 67 years of age who are already on a waiting list have a purpose in such homes and in such service. It does not solve any problem to extend the time even more for those already on this list. I think and I hope so. A senator would agree with me, he does not actually sit on a welfare committee, that the committee takes this into consideration, and on the other hand, the costs made up for real time, as possible, and that the committees get a member of the rural team to find out what will be the best way to proceed with the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u99	A respectable president. It is obvious that the committee has a considerable job to review this bill, even though there is little in themselves. The contents are as fine as they have been. They're reducing this age and expanding the clientele group. However, it is important to get answers to questions about the costs and the pressures that may be made, about who to pay, and whether this means that the communities or those who run these measures will respond to increased pressure by increasing resources, putting more money into it. Of course, in line with the discussion of another matter, financial plan, we must establish it there, and whether some money from the government is not right to be expected. Or not a good piece of paper, the rather weak piece of paper. As often as it is, I want to find out that once again, this is a good thing, but it's not taken all the way. Not all those who have to come to the case are addressed to the committee. I would have thought it would have been better for the highest. The minister and ministry of this case had a wide-scale consultation with the European Union and mainly those who run this strategy. It has been said in this hall of health advisers frequently that they are going to defend and improve their health systems, etc., which are beautiful words. Then, of course, the big words have to be kept.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u100	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to correct the change in pharmaceutical law, No. 93/1994, with subsequent changes. The bill is intended to contribute to the limit to the metabolism of counterfeit and illegal drugs on European markets and to increase the safety of patients. Implementation and improvement of the European Parliament Directive and of Council 2011/62/EU from June 8, 2011 for the conversion of Directive 2001/83/EC for human-based medicinal products in order to prevent the illegal introduction of false medicinal products into a legal chain and to the implementation of the Commission's Regulation 699/2014/EU from 24 June 2014. The procedure for design of common IDs to verify to the public the product by telecommunications and technical and electronic requirements and encryption requirements for the true testing of the genuine ID. At this point, it is appropriate to make an account of the House of Congress that this is about a so-called pure introduction bill, i.e. all the regulations in the bill are about the implementation of EU rules in Icelandic rights. This is not an addition, as it were, due to special - language regulations. The Directive 2011/62/EU was issued by increasing threats to products for their identity, history or origin. In these cases, the components of these medicinal products, including active substances, do not meet quality requirements, are pale or incorrectly available. False medicinal products are associated with severe public health issues. Health and even the lives of patients are put at risk by selling items that do not meet meaningful descriptions and production standards. For example, a counterfeit medicine may have contained a toxin and no active substance. In addition, imitations of life - sustaining drugs have been carried out on markets. The manufacture and selling of illegal drugs is a criminal offense, no less a crime than a drug dealer. The European Union Directive was issued to prevent the transport of counterfeit drugs but the implementation of its regulations will, for example, be in operation. Based on the fact that there is a tight association between the data and the relabelling of medicinal products. Note that in this country, there are no cases of counterfeit drugs being passed through a standard legal route. As mentioned earlier, drug spills are a growing problem that must be handled with full force and are involved in fighting that threat. It is therefore important that the import and distribution requirements of the medicinal product are strictly adhered to. The bill is the first-in-line definition of the term fake drug and in the bill information about the counterfeit drug type is required to report to the Marketing Authorisation. This will open up the activity of a so-called chemical mediator, i.e. individuals who share products of their own purchase and sale for another legal or individual. It also includes measures that reach all parties in the half-chain of medicinal products, including has restricted prescriptions for prescriptions to purchase drugs outside the holding chain, i.e. Persons responsible for the import, import and manufacture of active substances are allowed in the Marketing Authorisation Holder. The bill is suggested to allow, under the supervision of the European Medicines Agency, under certain conditions of the pharmacy network. The illegal drug trade has increased worldwide and has been a popular distribution route for counterfeit drugs. Studies with medicinal products sold online have shown that active substances range from the absence of a full range of active substance to that stated on the carton. It is then estimated that more than half of the medicines on the Internet are likely to be false. In view of this, it is important that medicinal product sold through the net be conditioned and identified safely for patients. If the network market shares a common identification, consumers should be able to trust that those involved in the web will be employed by law. With the bill there is an increased monitoring obligation to the European Medicines Agency, but the FDA will be submitted by the National Competent Authority to meet the costs. A respectable president. I've now explained the fundamental principles of the bill, but they all come to the introduction of EEA regulations to national rights. So I'll allow myself to suggest that the bill be after the 1st. Refer to the welfare committee and to the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u101	Madam President. Thank you very much. Pre-historic minister. Me and the Icelanders have been a conservative drug trader compared to most of our neighbors in Europe. I welcome this change that comes, like a lot of our most advanced legislation, directly from the European Union. There's two things I wanted to ask the highest. Healthcare Minister to: This change opens to a pharmacy sale through the Internet. That's a bit revolutionary for Icelanders and our conservative drug trade. It's the highest. If so, does the health minister have an increased level of liberality in a pharmacy in general, such as in public stores, both nonprescription and prescription materials? On the one hand, I wanted to ask about the media. I read the definition in the report and in the bill itself. I'm not quite sure what a drug agent is yet. He does not appear to be a collective dealer, not an immigrant, not a manufacturer, and not a small dealer. I just want to get the answer to the role and responsibility of an agent.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u102	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a positive decision in general. Hv. A senator asks about a drug server. I can't explain it any better than what the bill says, and I expect that if the committee thinks it's not clear enough, it needs to be called for an even clearer approach. However, with regard to the question of increased liberality and the fact that a pharmacy is being held in more places than is expected now by opening up a drug trade online, there is no evidence here to suggest such changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u103	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. This is a turning point. Changes in the medication code are being discussed in this direction. It is quite clear that, in the same way, good action is needed. I know few lawsuits that are more complicated and more difficult than these specific laws. - I see people nods here. I'd like to ask you something in the first round. The report shows that the directive's regulations will have to be limited to the translocation and re-labelling of medicinal products,...◯ It's been a considerable practice in this country, including the U.S.A. Because of the small size of the market, and also because of the requirement that all meaning be found in the Icelandic language. This sets a great limit, and attempts have been made to pass on this or to get some exceptions, for example, in Malta, which is certainly an English language but a small market. I wondered that it would be good to have a little more detailed explanation of what is being carefully squeezed. Is it possible to influence the availability or interest of foreign manufacturers and pharmacists in bringing drugs into the market here? Because, indeed, it often needs to be pulled by a pair, it's not very lucrative even if we think it's expensive, really, it's a small market, if the idea is possible to open up to the fact that we're falling from the Icelandic text and the need to remark. I'd like to hear the first round about what's being exactly spoken.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u104	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before the counter, and perhaps in general, by reason of lack. A senator mentions this fine drug class, that we now have a full reexamination of drugs, and we need to have all these factors underneath. At the national level, we Icelanders have maintained the importance of printing out information locally. It is of utmost importance in this context to make information available. This may be the biggest step in making this aspect of health care closer to our day, i.e. that information is available at an appropriate site and can actually call for, but does not need to be included in the individual packages at any given time. Of course, this is very important. In general, about the factors as a matter of course. A candidate asks about the review, and these changes are contained in the river water of other regulations that follow up with this issue as these factors are more addressed. I hope that it will appear at the council sooner than later. However, regarding this specific induction, we are in shame of the European Economic Area, and we really need to arrange the first and are forced to, as it were, to do so. But I think it's a right thing to do, so we're supposed to finish this change.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u105	Madam President. I appreciate an answer to the highest degree. Minister and understand, in effect, that this law may not be completely clear but will be made clear on the bill that follows. Well, that's just the way it is. But this is important, and I say it because it's a lifelong struggle that we're filling up as the market of these most rigid rules because of these delicate markets and falses, but rather than being burdensome, it's not that it's just that it's just not gonna be a very selective market for sales or products. That's important. I'll be waiting excitedly for the next round. I'd kind of like to snoop out with this, but there's something my colleague came in here earlier, asking if there's any free-selling drugs in the lake somewhere, increasing market freedom. Now the Internet store has arrived, but is there somewhere to consider relaxing the loo of free-selling drugs?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u106	A respectable president. First of all about the free-selling drugs, that's not the case on my Constitution, and I don't see a reason for that in itself. For sale and distribution of medicinal products, this is one of the factors considered in the final review of the medicinal product. But because I may have been a little vague in my previous answer to the question. The senator, then, is to be viewed as a matter of course. A senator asked about not coming in a new bill but in a Regulation that comes on the basis of the laws set here by this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u107	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister only on authority to network stores. The market is not only in this country but is at least a panEuropean phenomenon if not international. We have such rigid demands for the management and sale of medicinal products that there are probably a few markets with such competitiveness for the public principle as this, especially for the very small market. Therefore, it is certainly happy that we are here to see a license program for pharmaceutical network, which could be a significant step forward. I wondered and wanted to ask the highest. Minister to the impact it has. Does it provide access to an intermediate drug trade through a Web site? I simply ask because of the ignorance I have of the group. I just don't know if this is a source for it. Of course, we know, and we are happy that these are the problems of an illegal pharmaceutical Internet store where placebos are being sold or even something tremendously harmful that is entirely different from what they say is said to be. But it would be interesting if this opened up some sources and increased competition for the benefit of consumers. I would have asked the highest question. To that: Is this the introduction of the drug via this source?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u108	A respectable president. That is correct. A candidate in this country is a fairly rigid demand for pharmaceutical sales, but at the same time we are part of the European Economic Area, where there are natural standards for free transport products. The rules here apply to this type of product, although with the limits of normalness in view of the product products involved, i.e. It's not just any drug in any area, etc., it's important to have opinions about it. It puts the safety of consumers who need their medication first. There are the interests that are number one at the local health authorities, to look out for their interests, although provided we are ensuring that these principles are in honor of the EEA Convention.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u109	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. In short: Does this mean, then, that any Internet company that meets the requirements of this model, wherever in the European economy it operates, has received the certificate or the signal that the European Union has registered as a label for this sort of network store, is it allowed to market and sell drugs here? Second, what does it mean to pay public pay for such drugs if they bought through such sites? Is there, then, a right for the customers to be reimbursed in some way from the government?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u110	A respectable president. As for this question, I must admit that I do not have a final answer to it, but I would have thought so. However, there are certain regulations in which all of this will be better and clearer. I don't know, but I don't think that's why. A senator suggests that although he here opens up the conversation with me with a sign that he has no knowledge of this sector, he is well acquainted with the purchase and sale of various goods that he has something to offer in this discussion, as in many others. But I would think the answer to a question why. The senator would be yes, but with them in advance, I am not sure of that. However, the scope of Regulation is likely to be at least It's a sharpening of what's going on here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u111	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct the change of damage laws. This is a modification of the rules of the law that pertain to the update of the multiple factors of page 6. The law, the change in the indexing of funds that lead to, including, of which a change in minimum and maximum wage requirement and change of withdrawal rules due to payment from a pension fund. The changes are seeking to update key laws in order to ensure full improvement in physical damage. The scavenging laws are forming from 1993. In 1999, significant changes in the law's regulations were made, and since then only minor changes have been made. For some time, there has been debate over the need to revise the laws and standards of the law, which have been long since they were established, and the basis for these standards are certainly changed. By doing so, he builds a series of multiples in Article 6. The law on specific criteria that have changed since the calculation of the Index when the change was made on the law in 1999. Minimum and maximum remuneration recommended in sections 3 and 4. 7. The law has not gone up in accordance with pay development, but changes have been made in terms of the rules of exorbitant expeditation from the Penitentiary as 2 mgr. 2.g. 4 mg. Section 5. The law, with increased share of employers in minimum fees. As stated earlier, with the changes presented here, the changes to the parameters of the above criteria are adjusted to the conditions that exist today, with the goal of ensuring complete improvements in physical damage. There have been reports including for work on this bill, for further review of the law. In particular, it has been noted that the process of microenergy evaluation needs to be considered, but this procedure is considered to be unnecessaryly complex and expensive, and it is therefore necessary to reevaluate more aspects of the damage laws in my opinion and specific procedures in the preparation of microenergy assessment. However, it was appropriate to divide this project and first review the issues involved in this bill. It is sanctified by the fact that it is urgent to update the criteria proposed for this bill, and generally there is a consistent contingency of these updates and that they would need immediate action. It is far more important to review other laws of the law, such as the preparation of energy food. Hence, it was right to make the changes presented here immediately. The bill is covered in detail as to the effects of the bill, both on damage rates and on reformables. During the work of the bill, Vigfús Ásgeirsson was obtained to calculate that effect. His cost analysis is included as a follow-up with the bill. It is clear that the change in the munitions of the law will result in an increase in improvement, thereby increasing payment from insurance companies and all others who pay damages. Then the change in the amount of minimum and maximum wage means that this amount will rise and take into account the future salary development of a labour market. The changes will also lead to an increase in financial reforms in a certain group of sufferers and thereby to increased payments on insurance companies and other reformers. The change in extraction guidelines due to payment from a pension fund will increase the recovery of temporary loss of employment and permanent disability that will result in a reduction in reform and thereby a reduction in payment from insurance companies. The impact of individual changes in the bill is somewhat different, i.e. lead to either an increase or a decrease in the balance. However, it is clear that the overall impact of the bill will include an increase in benefits, thus increasing the payment of insurance companies and others who pay out compensations. A more detailed article is given in the bill, which I also refer to in other ways. A respectable president. So I have explained the key elements of this bill, but it is clear that it does not have an overall review of the terms of damage repairs. I think it's necessary to review more of the laws of the law, especially the way it's being done making disability assessments. However, the changes presented here, I believe, are very important. I therefore suggest, a respectable president, that the bill will be followed by this discussion referred to what. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u112	A respectable president. We're talking about a bill about a change in damage laws and I want to thank you very much. Minister for bringing their change, because it's a long time. I don't know if it's a coincidence, but there's been two significant changes in the damage laws, one in 1993 and the other 1999, and I've had a car accident in 1993 and 1999, so I've met this class from a completely different side than most. There's a lot of things to look at here. I agree with the highest. Minister, this party has to be revised from the foundation, mainly in the right to obtain justice in court. Because of my own experience, I know it's kind of a hopeless example. After you have been in a traffic accident and are inactive for a few years, it is a prescription, unfortunately, for poverty. It tells us that these refinements are not grand, and they need to be trusted that the system of justice will see to it that he has a lax desire. I could never have believed that she was as great as she was in my case because it took several years to get abduction because of ridiculous things that are not supposed to be involved. That's why I've often wondered about the things that have always been forgotten, and that's the credit fund, so-called insurance debt. Civilized nations usually settle this debt of guarantee every five or ten years. In Iceland it's never made up. We know the consequences. In one case, insurance debt went to a low tax island and ended up as a luxury apartment and eventually as a pledge to the pool on Elfune. It tells us that this money - which has been called without a shepherd because it seems that it is actually just money from insurance companies - needs to be fixed regularly and to use it to improve the damage rates that really need such. Addictions and other things, to make sure that they have some small chance of fighting insurance companies. The insurance companies have unlimited money and a number of lawyers to cope with the damages. We have no tolerance for this. The minister mentioned the microenergy assessment, and it is, in fact, one of the most amazing things in these cases. I kind of agree that it needs to be put on some strings. All the runts I've been to - I've never been to the same place for lunch, they've been here and there all over the town where you have to strip off, and in some cases a man was taking off his open windows. This situation should not be offered to anyone. I did so, but I ask myself, " If this had been my daughter's case, or my wife, or anyone who would have had to make a similar assessment, how would I have reacted? ' There's a lot of things here that need to be reviewed and also that these below are really low. No matter how you look at it, because in most cases insurance companies are able to negotiate because people are in a position where they have no choice but to negotiate some minimum compensation from the insurance company. I've been trying to study what it is, and in most cases it seems to me that people may be getting one fourth or one fifth of what they should get right. Of course, insurance companies don't want to pay anything, and they point out that they don't want to pay for anything under 15% of what they don't want to do with failure and financial disability, which, of course, are wrong because their health is very serious and they don't have to be if you're loyal, I don't talk about it when people are safe, really double sure, when you're committed to a driver's insurance and you're 100% right, but you don't get the benefits and still have to fight. You must ask yourself, " How is this possible? ' As in my case, I've been fighting this case since 1999, for almost 18 years, and it's now in the Supreme Court. I've got 400 of you. K. paid as a 5% miscalculation. Well, it's all heavy and the car's completely destroyed, and I'm in a major operation. How was that possible? Yes, it was possible to lie about infections and things that were never there, and then I had to prove my innocence to those who were clean and complete lies. I had to prove my innocence in order to obtain a catharsis. Finally, when I get my immunity and finally get this case to the station where it's done and fed up on my own, no, it's the strangest thing coming from Reykjavík: the whole thing's ancient. How can matters begin when you have nothing to do with a requirement because you are not pressured to make the claim to get your food? These are the traps the insurance companies use. I encourage the Minister to revise the damage laws from the ground. They're old, and it's time to rethink them. It must also be revised from a humanitarian point of view because for most victims of bad accidents it is enough, much more than enough fighting health again, and not having to contend with financial insurance companies that can, in their power of money, and a lot of lawyers are doing what they want. That's why it's number one, two and three, I repeat it. I'm asking a minister if she doesn't agree with me in that we have to guarantee that people who get involved with insurance companies and are struggling to get compensation after an accident they've really had will have a legal guarantee that they're going to get abduction and they can defend themselves. I also think that inside that abduction is a clear signal that if the case gets won, the insurance company is going to pay them back, so that the government is not harmed at all. If anything comes out, we can also use the credit fund to make sure that they cover all the costs. I point out that as a result, insurance companies can reduce their entrance to the credit fund. They're already threatening this small adjustment that a minister is making that his pay has to be raised, I understand, 20 to30 you. K. All I'm saying is, Okay, drop into the credit fund. Make up your credit fund. Let's use this money, because they're in there, in these funds, on the social security number of the victims. Another of these is the secret, that large amounts can be put on the list of damages, and he has no chance of knowing what the amount is or what happens to it. As a result, on account of that secrecy, insurance companies can say 200 million in credit money, but they can pay out 20. What, then, will happen to the 180 million left behind? Yes, there will be money without a shepherd, and as a result, it will be money that will become such a racer to use to make a profit. I'm glad that these laws are changed and that Ministers are fully supported by continuing to change, and I sincerely hope that they will agree with me in that we will accept the whole damage laws as soon as possible to reevaluate them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u113	A respectable president. I recommend a bill of a change in court law, a law on private handling and the treatment of criminal matters. The bill suggests the establishment of a new court called Rearing Court, which replaces the Re-Election Committee. With such a system of things, it would be out of the question that the court was solely on the hands of judges in accordance with the order of 2 st. The Constitution, as well as the release of such a special court case on whether the Court's final Court, National Court or Regional Court would be finalized and would not bring a review of courts on the basis of Article 60. The constitution. The current command, established by law No. 15/2013, is the fault of a re-entry committee belonging to the European Commission in the sense of Icelandic law, being empowered to resolve the conditions required to restore a legal case that has finally been resolved by the courts, thus breaking the redemption of the jurist. It may be reasoned that this arrangement violates the threefold definition of the state's authority as stated in Article 2. The Constitution says that the President of Iceland and other governments will administer the Commission and the courts. According to the 60th paragraph. The Constitution has a court order on the legitimate administrative decision and, on the basis of the constitution, the Supreme Court has dismissed a case that had been decided by the Re-Election Committee because it was not a legal condition to grant the request of the material. So I'm going to review the Supreme Court of February 25th, 2016, in case of No. 628/2015. Furthermore, in the January 25, 2017, the County Court of Reykjavík ruled that this arrangement will be in direct opposition to 60 C.E. and 1st. 70 C. The constitution. In view of this, I suggest that a new special court, a re-established court, replace with the Re-Election Committee, which will then be put down. It is suggested by the bill that a review of the Court's review will be made to a greater part of the appointed courts that come from each of the three judges. It's two ways to win. First of all, it would be certain that more of the judges would come from the panels of the jurist and thus be protected by the 61st par. In general, the Constitution will be removed from office only by court. Second, this order would be adopted as a legal hearing in the sense of the Constitution in the same way as social and national law. At the same time, one of the four judges of the new court is suggested to be put in line for the release of advertisements and to come from rows other than judges, former judges, or court officials. This is in line with the second primary objective of the change made at the time of the Re-Electment Committee, that non - judges will come to the decision of a judicial hearing. It is then suggested that the judge be involved in each case and that the judge appointed at the level of judgment that judged the case required to be reused will not one of them. In this way, two judges, as well as a judge, will be appointed each time after the release of an advertisement. It ensures that, on the other hand, non - court cases are involved and that the judge does not side with the request for a resurgence of the judgment of a joint or of his fellow witnesses. The bill also suggests an evacuation of private reimbursement. According to local law, three conditions mentioned in the 191st area are needed. the management of personal matters all to be met in order to re-expose matters. Two of these conditions are unique in nature, where it will be more likely that, on the other hand, the situation has not been correctly identified when the case was presented for the treatment and the person asking for a recurrence will not be taught, and however, new data will result in a different result in important factors. The third requirement, also to be present, is more general where it refers to the fact that other incidents recommend that a permit be granted, including the high priority of the person's interests. It is suggested that only one of the individual conditions is met in order to reinvest matters, if at the same time the current conditions are met, i.e. that an incident would recommend reimbursement and that the person's grand interests are at stake. This leads to changes in the terms of the condition, being guided by clarity. Thus, the conditions of a-joints will include the situations where there is a strong likelihood that new data or information may not have been correctly introduced when the case was treated and the person cannot be blamed. In contrast, the criteria for b-joints will include non-dating cases. According to the fact that new evidence or information, other than the facts, has been provided, and strong odds have been drawn that they will change the previous court's conclusions on important issues. Using new data or information in this sense, all the data or information that could lead to a different conclusion on important issues, including solutions from international courts such as the European Court of Human Rights and the EFTA Court. Then, in the end, it is suggested that a review of the Court's residence. Similarly, significant changes in the treatment of re-populations are proposed. They take into account that this is a court, not a administrative committee, and is not a reason to trace it here in detail, but finally I refer to the general paper on the matter. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be following this discussion. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u114	A respectable president. I must admit that I feel that there is something tiny surrealian about going up here in a speech at the highest level. Minister of Justice on the order of the court after what has happened. I do not know exactly how much I would like to hear of the repetition of the argument previously presented by the minister in connection with his actions and practices around the Order of the Land Court. But I think it's important, not to make the same mistakes again, that people learn something from what they do before. The first step is usually to admit that something has gone wrong, that you have done something wrong. It has to say that my lack is absolutely by the sitting of the highest. Minister of Justice, who has both the pleasure of the Supreme Court but still disagrees - yet disagrees with, but still disagrees with, all the preposterous talk. But I have to ask the highest. Minister if there is anything in the experience with the National Court order, the trial in this room, the treatment of the Supreme Court, at the highest level. Minister of Justice has learned from and will benefit in the future, e.g. When it comes to the order of this new judgment level. Because while the role of a minister is not necessarily under these laws, as I understand them at this stage, it is something. I'm just saying as I am, as I have said before and voted according to, that in no way do I trust this sitting justice minister in any way in order to set the rank or order of judges. There is no minister I can imagine I trust less. I'm just saying. What might just hit it, if the top. A minister over his head cares for what I doubt, it would comfort me a little to know that something had been learned by the order of the land's rights and the copy of the person who could be used to the highest degree. Minister to do better in these matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u115	A respectable president. I don't know if it would help. A senator is doing a little cutting off the arrogance and arrogance that he displayed in opposing him on this matter. Perhaps it would have been better for a more effective conversation to request. A senator doesn't like it but what. Clearly, a senator has nothing to do with the bill as such. In general, however, it can be said in these terms, for it is being considered about the appointment of judges, and I think it is good to think that in this bill the exact requirement for a fourth person to appoint this court to advertise the vacancy but not the handler or designated by any aspect of the state's authority, all can afford to apply for that position and pass through some sort of aptitude, in fact, in this case the qualifications laid on the court of law. That is fine to bear in mind in the large context of a judge's appointment. Otherwise, I may want to ask you why. A member of Parliament also, to see if he might consider it possible for the general members of Parliament to learn anything from the language that became legal here in 2013 and led to the Committee to Re-Elect, which the Supreme Court and other courts have now concluded that they were in opposition to a constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u116	A respectable president. V.E.G. Ministers undermined the confidence and credibility of a new court order. And as a result, I say in no uncertain terms that I do not trust a minister who behaves in such a way. That should be obvious. It can be very arrogant if it's the highest. A minister sleeps better at night calling it arrogant. That's true. That's what's left. I can honestly say that there is one thing I have in mind to check on the bill and it's in 2nd. g., that the judges of the hearing are appointed by a minister who determines which of the appointees will be the nobles and the guardians. The only reason I've got something to do with this is because, based on the way I work. A minister of justice, and especially the follow - up reaction, makes me feel that I would rather not. Let the Minister of Justice come anywhere near who will judge over his head. V.E.G. A minister may feel proud if there is something better for him. You can stand that way for me. I just don't care. V.E.G. A minister of judicial matters has earned his way of speaking. Because after what has happened, there is no repentance or anything that would indicate the ultimate degree. A minister would do nothing different if she remained in the same situation again, receiving the same warnings from the same people that were last. And that's what scares me. I'm not gonna stand here and talk to any minister like that. Every Minister makes a mistake, every senator makes a mistake, we all make a mistake. It's normal, it's okay. But we must be able to face them and learn from them. There is a foundation for those who exercise tender authority as they do for judges. I noticed, in answer to the highest. Minister of Justice, she did not answer the question. So I'd like to ask you a few more questions. If the highest. The minister of justice was again standing at the beginning of the month of June and the end of May last year, most certainly. Ministers do the same thing? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u117	A respectable president. In this discourse, as in every other part of the world, people fly as if they were feathered. When it comes to justice, I think. A senator is among those who might consider whether his speaking on this matter could be involved. Hv. A senator does not have material comments on this bill. He may not have them, perhaps he has not studied, or he does not want to have an opinion on them. But I encourage him to study this bill. There are many ways to do so when it comes to appointing judges in this court as well as others. I note, however, that if humans have not realized that this is not a personal court in the sense that he makes physical judgments, it is a court commissioned to state whether it is a moral and legal viewpoint that can lead to the adoption of judgment, but it does not state anything of the conclusion of such repercussion. In this regard, this court is different from other courts. But up to one point, there are many ways to go by the order of judges. Here is one way, there could be many other ways. For example, it could be considered as a result of the fact that these courts, each judgment level, do not name two representatives, as expected in the bill, but will simply reduce the names of a sitting judge to sit in a review court. But it's all a good point of opinion that I think it is. A top-of-the-art Board of Education should be discussed and considered. [[The president calls.]] I take every indication of what might be done better on this bill, if you have any suggestions in that subject, happy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u118	A respectable president. I am certainly happy that special courts are to be set up to determine whether a legal hearing should be authorized to return. The bill speaks of one of the judges there to set out from the high court, one from the Country Court, and one in the third from the district court. Although both men and women are expected to be named from these ranks, by permission of the president, it is assumed that they will be removed when objective reasons are not possible. The candidate should then explain the reasons for this. I want to take advantage of this opportunity to point to the sexist palace in the Icelandic judiciary. In the Supreme Court, one woman and seven men sit. Of the 35 judges appointed to the province, there are 14 women. True, there is an equal share in national rights, but that order was not disintegration. Therefore, whether to a revisual court will bring many sexual abuses, where proof of these matters often proves to be difficult. So I wondered, " Is this court still another addition to the male and special - interest power of justice in Iceland? ' Judges are required to remain neutral in their activities, but the overall system needs to be reviewed. Sadly, the situation of women in the justice system in Iceland is not bright, no matter what they see, whether it is for women graduate from law school who intend to pursue careers in the judicious system or for those who are going to be subject to sex abuse.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u119	A respectable president. I'm going to give up my talk, though. Perhaps a minister of justice would like me to talk about something quite different or to be doing something as high as possible. Minister of Justice would rather be that I should be doing so. I'm gonna let it go. Rather, consider the basics that we must consider when it comes to the highest degree. Minister of Justice presents a legal case. Now I know people forget things that happen in politics. That's totally normal. People have more to do with their lives than to dwell on the things that have happened in politics forever. But what is called the National Court case is simply not to be forgotten. The lesson of this is what Icelandic politics look like on the foundation. How it is basically characteristic of Iceland's government, and I'm just going to say in particular to the administration of the Independence Party; irresponsibility, complete irresponsibility. Not just a little irresponsibility, it's absolute. At the top. The Minister of Justice talked about this sometime during a radio interview. That radio interview wanted the highest. According to Minister of Justice, the minister's responsibility is to attend interviews and to volunteer in elections. That actually says the whole story, as far as I'm concerned. That it is just an opinion that a minister of justice in the Republic of Iceland can have and say it out loud in front of the people. And a whole board of directors nods, it's okay, just normal, because that group has behaved like that, at least for as long as I remember myself, i.e. by politics over a head, which, in fact, is not much less. In regard to this matter materially, which I haven't considered entirely, but some of it, I like what it says. I wouldn't have to worry too much about this if it wasn't for the fact that here in Poland we don't learn. We don't change things that clearly don't work, or work so that the Council pays votes, splits its shoulders, with 31 votes against 30 on a new level of nonsense, along with warnings from the Ministry, from the Generals committees, and then confirmed by the district and the Supreme Court at the end. And the answer is: Minister of Justice is interviewing and volunteering again. This is the responsibility. When such political conduct is presented as in some way or acceptable, a suspicious person is suspicious of such a matter. It's not a big deal, it's not a big bill. It doesn't take long to slip through it, really. However, this is a review. It's some kind of judicious authority. Then it is important that people become better acquainted, that they listen to warning words, at least at some point, and that people may disagree completely. Everything's fine. The only thing that needed the last thing was, what? Waiting. In fact, there was a solution. There was no one who wanted to put the land rights, no government opposition, into a bullshit dispute. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Ólafsson was standing here, happy memories, explaining what was needed. It just needed time. Since then, it has been found that it was quite enough, simply enough time to top it. A minister could comply with the law as directed by a minister. It was refused. Why? Why couldn't it be okay? Why could the highest. A minister would not take that month to do the right thing? And then we would have accepted a new level of judgment with all the votes. Presumably all in attendance, I presume. Why not? Because it didn't have to. It doesn't need that in Iceland. There's no need to be in Iceland. It's all right in Iceland that the more part of the truck the things through, ship a new level of judgment in a nonsense dispute, conscious of the warning words that were let to fall there in the past. Now I know the highest. A minister may feel that it is not good that I am speaking in a material way about the matter that she wants to talk about but more about the setting around how we bring about legalization and judgment, our judicial system. But the highest. Minister only has to sit under that, and unfortunately, I'm afraid. Councilmen also, and those who beg to listen. But this is fundamental. If we cannot prove that the authorities are trustworthy in establishing a new level of judgment, we should be afraid. Then we need to be suspicious of such laws, even if they are good, even if they sound good. We have to. Because the other choice is that we just say okay, that I say to the highest. Minister of Justice: Okay, I'll just read this and not mention this legal case again, which I know to the highest. Even a minister does not feel uncomfortable, does not even have the minimal dignity of feeling at least a little uncomfortable. That the Council had only listened to these warning words and had also ignored them and paid votes with the highest will. Minister of Justice. It could have been that way. That would have been the best. The Minister of Justice and the Independence Department in particular, I presume. Except maybe not. I think they just don't care. But it's not working. It is not to be ignored as to whether the superior authorities are trustworthy in appointing judges or that they look like that, for there is old wisdom; justice is not enough; it must be seen to be fulfilled. It's just the same with the politicians. The reason politicians feel that they are so dirty, pardoning the language, the respectable president, is because people don't see the responsibility. It is easy not to see responsibility in the absence of it. It will rarely be as ignominious and uncomfortable and awkward and tragic and tragicly obvious as it was in the above - mentioned national court. Then I wondered how a responsible senator should approach this matter according to the above, according to the conduct of the highest. Minister of Justice in the National Court case. I think it's best to be suspicious of every step of this. Trying to find windows, find something as high as possible. A minister of justice may abuse it to appoint someone to the highest rank. The minister of justice feels that he should be a judge rather than a court judge after some procedure that has been approved by another. Okay, that's a good move to read it better than that, to put more time into it. But it would be nice not to have to approach such a thing as this with the tremendous, complete suspicion as at least I show to the highest. Minister of Justice after what has happened. Because every step, every opportunity, used the highest. Minister of Justice to make wrong decisions. And that doesn't make any sense. I asked here twice before, the second time, very clearly, that I thought, in response to a speech at the highest level. Minister of Justice, yes, there were two minutes of words, certainly, but the question was not answered. A minister of justice would do something different if she faced the same situation that was here at the end of May 2017. What should a good senator think? What makes it logical to think? Well, perhaps she would do something different. Maybe. Perhaps she would use this opportunity to do something right. But I doubt it. I don't think that makes sense. I don't think that would be illogical. I think it would be much more logical to assume that the highest. The minister of justice had learned nothing from this, would do exactly the same thing in the same situation, and would act falsely and violate laws despite warnings - and just care nothing. Just disagree with the Supreme Court. What is naturally the worst of all is not in itself. Justice ministers are coming and going. But it's gonna be okay. That's what gets on my nerves. That people feel it's over their heads. I don't like it. I know a lot of people who don't think it's okay. But there are quite a number of people who feel that this is all right and not a problem, just some kind of government opposition, a way to waste time. But not to speak of the order of the new court order of any trust being undermined, for a minister needed to do what he wanted. And the other part needed to do what he wanted, the same as ever. I'm not gonna have this any further. I hope that one day the future generation will return to that time and think, " Forgive them,'for they had no idea what they were doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u120	Madam President. It's kind of a shame. A minister is not in the hall where I was going to have a word with her about certain matters. Is it known if there's a minister in the house? I think I saw her out there. I can, for example, start this speech that won't be long. I'd like to begin by saying that I think it's very necessary to order such a case in a court to do the work required in the bill. I have to admit that I haven't given anything to do with it yet, but I'm assuming that's the problem. I trust that. What I wanted to discuss in particular, following the discussion of the appointment of judges in the Lands Court, is the procedure of the judges' orders - I see that a minister is here and I thank her very much because I wanted to - I just get to repeat: I welcome this bill and I think it's very important, but I'm considering the arrangement of the judges' orders. If I understand this correctly, there are three specific courts appointed to appoint a party to take place in the courts and have it male and female. The fourth judge's position is then expected to be advertised and a judicial committee will review applications and choose. If I get this right, I'm gonna come to the top. Minister of Justice, eight appointments, including those applying, and if that is the case, perhaps four men and four women will be at the top of the table. Minister of Justice. Then I wondered if there is a clear difference between fittings, if I also understand correctly--in the light of discussion, as I said of the previous orders in the courts, whether this time would be considered to alter this law in some way that the Minister of Justice should take account of gender criteria when he takes into court. This time, it should be of little account because there are four men and four women who qualify, and then judicial committees, to take place in the court. It should be in the palm of the hands to proceed in such a way that a minister of justice was required or, at least, a strong recommendation in the law that he could have a gender motive in choosing from this group. My business at the highest. The Minister of Justice, when I'm considering this, is it really possible to find a solution that would make them think that we are talking about people who are definitely qualified, both in terms of the courts as a nominee and a judicial committee, whether it is a burden for a Minister of Justice - I don't know what other viewpoint he should have when putting the decision together? This is actually my address at this point on this new court, which I reiterate that I believe is necessary. I think it would be very good if we could approach the orders of the judges based on the views I mention here. I think that would result in a better reconciliation over the orders of the sentence and the actions of the law. I'd appreciate it if it were the highest. Minister may consider responding, but I'm not going to take my case further this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u121	A respectable president. I'd like to mention a few things about the history of the Minister and the subject of the bill. The minister mentioned that the problem with the Re-Electment Committee, which is being solved with this, is related to the constitution. As a result, this court is a member of the court, as the report says. That's what I said. In the history of this court, a minister had something to do with the fact that he was not to give any conclusions like any other judge. True, it is in the law that a rejuvenating court makes a decision. It is by nature, in view of the fact that this court is a member of the court, and its conclusions are a judicial decision, that it submits to the laws also performed by other courts. I'm sure there's some kind of technical thing that you can get into, but I'm not one of those lawyers here, not a lawyer class. I also do details about the order of the judges. Now in the bill, four judges are appointed. However, it is suggested that only three judges take part in each case and that the judge appointed at that level of judgment judged the case required to be reused will not be one of them. This is so that each case may have gone all the way through the judgment steps right up to the Supreme Court. It is the Supreme Court that makes up a final sentence that may, in fact, be the same as the Supreme Court and the National Court. Although the Supreme Court is not in that rejuvening court, there are judges from the Supreme Court and the district court, judges involved at some point in the case; even reached the same conclusion; it may have been confirmed all the way. However, if some kind of confrontation with the judges at the time of the court ended, it is still there where the case was even treated in the province and the land, or just in the province and the National Court, not the Supreme Court, no matter what it is. I'm fine with the ideas that it's natural to pull this off, who's sitting there every time. There may be a solution. But there is still the problem, i.e. Judges will inevitably be included in this revision, where the matter has been treated at the level of judgment among fellow judges. It is good to consider this question as to whether it would be possible to have this judge published in the greater part; that it might be just one of the judges appointed and two advertised each time; someone like that in return. Finally, I'm on a budget and always look to the effect of food. It is not expected that there will be any financial impact on the state funds, since this will replace the Re-Election Committee. But the President's permission report says: In this regard it is specifically noted that there are still three members who are expected to be involved in each case and to be paid only for the cases they are taking, and according to a time tax set by the Board of Elders. Is that the same thing you're talking about? We have a land-right that hangs over it like a ghost, and then we add a big idea too. Based on recent decision-making at the board of men, e.g. I don't think the terms of the Senate's salary will be the same as they are now. I don't know how it's paid for this right now, but I'm going to guess that the amount of time decided by a wise man's advice will be higher, for some reason. It is based only on experience in these matters, and the vision of the national rights as such is also based on experience in handling these matters. That's why I mention it here. I'm not sure that this statement, that it has no financial impact on a trust fund, is true. Finally, I have a general comment on the size of these laws, in which there are a lot of different bill changes: Instead of the word '-jarjarjarísjar on the way, it's beginning to be ◯jarjarjar on the sun. However, there are quite a few of these changes that make one lose the context. You have to go to the original law by hand: How do I get the overall text now? What does he look like? Am I missing some context that I would have had if the entire text simply appeared in the bill? Now we have a synopsis that was approved at Congress on computer data, computerized laws, which would really help us to see the overall laws as if they were accepted from the text as it appears today. It involves the complaints we have, at least, about the matters of Congress that are falling in, many of them each pretty big and no one like that. This will only prevent you from getting involved in the matter in a quick and simple way. You have to do a lot of handwork, take time - consuming handwork, make sure that you extract from the law what the effects on the law will be in the end. Then you need to be sure that this is the right thing to do, for it is not likely. Some of the changes are quite complicated, go to some teams and sentences, etc., 3.mg. I don't know what. It can be very easy to get lost when it is complicated if you are not fished into reading the structure of laws. In this case, I would like to encourage the president to spit in his hands only about this concierge of computerized lyrics that we have to put into effect. That would save us senators a lot of work trying to get the context of the law being submitted. You see, it's enough work to read through all the laws that come, let alone adding to having to puzzle them. It's like a play-school thing; you get a mixed piece and you need to look at it, but you can't look at one and one piece of paper and figure out the context. I think it's necessary that we stop this, especially in the laws that are so intense and with so many extraordinary changes back and forth. When it comes to one or two articles in which a sentence is replaced, it's not complicated, but when it has become that much, I simply remind you of this interpretation and encourage a president to make something of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u122	A respectable president. I thank them. Councilmen who have addressed, were perplexing, and wanted to discuss the subject of this bill, which is a good reason to be discussed in this council Hall and at the same time. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. It is a principle and a fundamental principle in the court that judgment is a final result in a conflict. It is a principle that should be kept in mind, so that judgment completely ends the debates being resolved. However, there may be such cases, surfaces later, that it seems so obvious that a case in some way has not been handled properly under the court, i.e. Rather, the prerequisite for that judgment was not entirely correct; it cannot be blamed. There is also a part of the legal system that allows humans to determine whether there is a basis for judging. As I mentioned in my history, this has been the case since 2013 to the Commission, a part of the European Commission, is assigned to declare it. This was followed by the approval of the General Assembly at a Senate bill submitted in 2013. It was not just that it was taken out of the court of the Supreme Court, which up to that time had been responsible for giving a review of the request - 2013, this administrative committee was set up. The General also agreed, not in any dispute - or those who agreed on the matter of Congress, which, in fact, were not all members of Congress - but the council agreed to get these administrative committees to the conclusion that there were grounds for recontrieving the decision was immediately canceled. This was done by the General, and it occurred to some members of the Parliament to submit to the Generals to accept it, and the International Parliament then adopted a more important part of the council. Of course, the Supreme Court came to the conclusion that this was a gross way to the Constitution of individuals' rights and to violate the Constitution and the independence of the courts in this way. Not that it would be. Now people recognize, and I hope that it is undisputed here, that the change presented here would make these matters much better, no doubt much better, than was the 2013 Commission, also in a much better form than what had already been known before. I'd like to be honest that when I'm saying that this re-election court does not make any material conclusions in a case, I'm suggesting that he is only taking sides to see if there's any basis for renovating the case. It may then be that the matter will be repeated and exactly as judged. Or otherwise. It is absolutely the custody of the court itself, the appropriate court taking that judgment, but the Court does not make any material judgments, but it determines whether a sentence should be reimbursed. This may be a legal thing like this. Although I felt it proper to make a decision that this is not a court of law in the sense of assessing material issues. Men have also wondered how to appoint judges in this court. I am so glad that people are interested in wondering really how a judge is chosen for this court, even though, saying, " This is not the kind of court that makes a material decision in matters. ' This is where all three courts are committed to appointing one of their own. It would be advertised after the fourth man. I think there's a lot of ways we can do this. I have mentioned that it may be challenging to hide these judgments simply to reduce names; that all judges at a certain court, say with a certain experience, e.g. Justices at the district court that have been judges for five years are placed in a shrinking pot, and this is a root, so that men sit there, as required here, not too long. That's how it's replaced. This is one way. It is also possible not to have an individual outside the courts but only to increase the number of judges from the second sentence in order to engulf rejuvenating judgments. I'll just mention it. I think it would be useful if the committee were to discuss this in particular. In the case of the gender, it is specifically stated that the applicant has to be nominated for both a woman and a male. So here we discussed in a talk as quickly as possible. A member of the council, whether there is a basis for saying, too, that the minister was bound to give even orders. I don't see why it's specifically stated in the law. As I have mentioned earlier in the discussions with the orders of judges, I believe ministers are bound by gender reasons in these matters, such as the law on equal positions and rights of men and women. The minister standing here has put forth great effort to appoint equal proportions of men and women. the new court, governor, in spite of a great rush from individual councilmen. It may also be that way, and I draw attention to the fact that not all the courts have the means to appoint both a woman and a male in the future, although it may appear that it will be all equal. That's what I wanted to say. Finally, I would like to say that I can agree with what was presented at once. A senator may find it difficult to read from these initials. Nothing more than anybody else, it's in general like this. I've requested in the Ministry of Justice that when it prepares a bill, it will always be prepared for the text in a publication document that shows changes, valid lyrics with inline adjustments. It will not be necessary for the Ministry of Justice to send such a document to an appropriate committee that has the case in question. I got it. I got it. Councilmen to take advantage of it. Then I'd like to point out why. Senators themselves have members, all political parties, to do this kind of work, but all I have seen is that the members of the Parliament are willing to assist members of the council with all this work and have not had to ask frequently for such things on committees that such documents are prepared. But I don't think double-work is supposed to be going on. If this is possible in the council cases, I'm just speaking to the Justice Department, I will try to present these texts to the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u123	A respectable president. There's a lot you can do about it here. I'm going to start with the ring-in-the-box of this. Now it's so in the bill that it makes sure that a judge is not from the level of judgment that the case ended. But could this not go the other way, when a judicial hearing has decreed that a case of resurgence be brought back to the relevant judge in the resurgence of the case? Also, I would like to reiterate my comments that the law is in full context and full text. It's of little value to the senators for 1st. if the committee only gets the document. This should be part of the whole process. Finally, I wanted to bear it at least as a minister of justice suggested regarding the gender issues of the National Court. That was not necessarily what was being set out but a lack of evidence to support the development of changes. There was no problem with sexual feelings. They were not even used as rational justice minister as far as I can remember.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u124	A respectable president. This is not to be done by judges who will be incompetent in these matters, either in the resurrection court or in the court of the court that may be reincarnated. This is stated in the bill and assumes that the judges are appointed by a minister who decides which will be the nobles and which will be the guardian. The Court will appoint four nobles and four replacements. Of course, only traditional incompetent rules should be considered on the release of each case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u125	A respectable president. I just have to reiterate the question because it's all about when the Court's re-entry has finished and it's under way in the judiciary; in the federal court, or wherever it is. Whether this is the case, the judge in the Re-Electment Court asked that there be a critical reason to retake the case and then receive the case back as a judge, e.g. Supreme Court judge. There's quite a lot of people there. Just that he's in the re-election court, it's pretty likely that he's also one of the judges who will take the case when he gets back into the justice system.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u126	A respectable president. I don't think it can be that a court judge in the rejuvenating court will judge in a later stage, for example. Re-involved district, e.g. National rights later. I think that's the way things are going to be done, because things are assigned. This is not predetermined before the judgment of the judgment seat, but given to the judges of every court. I think that there must be some guidelines in this regard or the presence of a judge at an earlier stage, as is always done in the process of distribution.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u127	A respectable president. V.E.G. In her speech, the Minister of Justice said that she wanted to let the sex motive control a great outcry here at the General Assembly. I just want to ask the highest. Minister to this: Who here opposed to looking to gender?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u128	A respectable judge. I just mentioned that I had an order in the land rights as many women as men. I also mentioned that that this order of the National Court, the order of the minister of this office, was carried on by many members of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u129	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of Justice: Is it fair and truthful to say that no one in this room objected to viewing gender?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u130	A respectable president. Now I can't figure out what it is. A senator is leaving. I don't know what went on for why. Congressmen on the National Court last summer, but I do know that, and it is documented that men, many senators, would delay the case and would not see fit to submit to the Minister's motion of seven women and eight men at the National Court.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u131	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister of Justice for compromising my comments or questions. Of course, we cannot be sure that the future Justice Ministers will be as definitive as the present standard of equality. Minister of Justice. As this system assumes, these judges of this resurgence, or of the judgment court, are to be appointed, without question of their suitability; they are all fit to be judges at their time of judgment. That is why they are chosen. That is why I must reiterate my question: Is it not a small price to tie it up in these laws just because we want to equal sex ratios in the courts? If this situation exists that those who claim to have equal numbers of men and women, it is impossible for the minister to have a gender ratio. Then he will do as well as he can with his viewpoint in mind. Wouldn't that be a small price, since it's not a good thing? Why would he have the highest. The Minister of Justice is not able to enjoy a rule that says: Take care to see that the percentage of judges in this court is equal or equal? If it weren't a small amount of money, it wouldn't just be a good finish for a discussion on this subject and stamping the highest power. Minister of Justice Into the Real Equal Opportunities?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u132	A respectable president. I have mentioned that to all decisions, I believe a minister is completely tied up with the law on equal positions and rights of women and men. instructions for advice and mentioned. However, I would also like to point out that this is an assumed period of six years for the judges, although a second year runs out an order period of one of the three who come from the ranks of the officials. So there is some questions on the judgment court in this court. Even though the nominees are equally qualified judges - all of them, of course qualified, sitting judges, whether they were now - I may be living in such a situation, and now I am just wondering at some situation that may arise, that in this court there are judges who may have expertise in a particular field of justice beyond any other court order. And then there may even arise some legal field that we do not know today that would be necessary to have in a court like this. So they may come up with some of these views that were right - even if there were three women in the courts, there might be some reason to appoint the fourth woman for the next six years, since one of the three women from the other group is known to disappear from the court perhaps after a year or so. The circumstances are such that they cannot be explained once and for all. I believe today's legislation should ensure the viewpoint as a matter of course. A senator is concerned.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u133	Madam President. I'm kind of incomprehensible why I'm the highest. Minister of Justice is so slow. Of course, there are many reasons. Of course, it may also be so that a new court might come where it would be most desirable to have a judge who would know the facts. It just happens that there is no such judge in the country. No man or woman. And what will they do? So it's true to me that it's quite a kick-off at the highest level. Minister of Justice. I think the story tells us that in spite of everything, despite equality, and in spite of the clear obligation of women. That is the simple fact. I do not know exactly what will happen to a judge in a court of law who would have said: Well, I should have been one of those appointed by this court and the Supreme Court. A minister would have ordered me. What are the judicial decisions of the judges in order to turn them into equal committees or courts according to events? Don't you think it's nice just to make this clear and clear?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u134	A respectable president. Hv. The senator is amazed at how reluctant this minister we have here is. To answer, the minister is not interested in being taken care of by himself or anything, which now explains. But I'm encouraging a universal and educational committee to discuss this in general. I believe that these views do not belong in every song given here and in individuals. I also point out that today the sexes go all the time. I wondered if in a court of four people there may be some room for more sex than two.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u135	A respectable president. I recommend a bill for a change in public penalties. The objective of the bill is to ensure that Icelandic legislation is in accordance with the Convention on payoffs to foreign public employees in the international trade at the scene of the Economic and Development Agency in 1997 and the United Nations Convention on Human Depravity since 2003. The bill suggests three changes in the general law of penalties. First of all, it is suggested that the maximum penalty for violations against 109rd. The law of the law, i.e. carrying a bribe to a domestic or foreign employee will weigh from four years in prison to five years. This change reduces the difference between the line of such offenses and the violations of 128rd. The law, on the other hand, is about the payoff of national or foreign employees. The maximum penalty for violating that law is now six years in prison. However, it is not proper to suggest that the maximum punishment for these fractures be the same. In view of the rich confidential duties of the public employees and the public interests they have been given to protect, it will not be different from when a person in that situation demands or accepts bribes that he commits a serious offense than the one they offer. It is important that the punishment of decisions reflects the different nature of the fractures in this regard. Second, a change to 264th par. a general penal law, in which paragraph 1 refers to a payoff offer to the manager or employee of a business enterprise, including partly or as part of a public property. The second paragraph of the law discusses the payday of a manager or an employee of such a company. It is suggested that the directive be changed so that it applies not only to domestic enterprises but also to abroad. However, it does not seem right or necessary to associate the concept with the official employee in particular to the directive, either to the manager or to the company's employees in part or whole, regardless of whether or not they have a formal position as an official employee or not. Third, a maximum penalty for violations against 264. gr. a, both in terms of a bribe and a demand for or their receipt, will be the same as for public employees. Maximum punishment according to 264. g. a is now three years in prison but is suggested to be raised for five years for bribes and six years for payoffs. This brings to mind OECD's recommendation to increase the penalty for abduction, and the agreement between punishments due to violations in the public sector and in the public sector is to be made. The evidence for this is that a violation against 264. gr. a general penal law may be fully equal to a crime against 109 gr. and 128th pars. to the seriousness, end of the company working on the market, including the ones that belong in part or everything to the public, have significant resources, and may even be the dominant members of the individual sectors. Thus, the fragments of this species are infringements against healthy business life and the common good. Then it is important to strengthen even more fully the law of foreign bribery. They are the very nature of the case on the contrary, and they can be extensive and well weighed. to be faithful to a global business life. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be following this discussion. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u136	A respectable president. I recommend here for bill to correct the conversion of collection laws, No. 95/2008. The bill involves a number of changes to the collection laws. The proposed changes are based on the opinion of the General agent in the case of No. 8302/2014 and some adjustments are proposed in view of the experience in the implementation of the law. In his earlier opinion, the U.S. Marshal of Parliamentis concluded that in the sense of Article 11. a law on the emissary of the Generals and announced its findings to the current industrial and commercial secretary. The manager thus felt that it was not clear to you which patrolr would be in charge of a tax company owned by lawyers or law firm. There are two law-to-be surveillance partners, two UNECCs are being monitored on licences, and Iceland's National Legal Association is conducting a legal hearing. The bill responds to the information given by an agent by making it more clear that Iceland's law firm has already taken control of society's collect activity owned by lawyers and/or law firms. It is important for justice safety and consumer protection that the monitoring privileges and the duties of the Rapporteur are clear and not surmountable for any member of the organisation who is engaged in the collection laws. As for further tearing up the opinion of an agent, it is referred to the bill's article and the perceived position of an agent. Other changes proposed in the bill are that valid employment insurance should be allowed. This has not been done, however, it has been a general obligation to have valid employment guarantees for the duration of the operation and for a certain period of time thereafter. By making valid employment guarantees that permit conditions are an additional protection for demands and consumers. In the 3rd. The bill is added to Article 10. The law of the law that the tax collector is not the owner of a deposit account, and his estate is not fit for the opposite of his funerals and is out of debt in exchange for his farm. In general, there is a similar rule in another law that deals with holding accounts, so it must be concluded that there was a certain error at the time of the collection of laws that the regulations of the material were not in the Law. Finally, it is suggested that the SEC be granted permission to collect the members to meet the relevant criteria set out in the directive. The implementation of the bill was assessed for further changes to the law and for the management of the Ministry. In view of the fact that not many talks have been received because of the law, there was no reason to suggest greater changes. So at this point it was decided to suggest the specific changes included in the bill and to the main policy as a result of the allegorising agent who is entitled to respond in a clear way. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill go to what? The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u137	A respectable president. I recommend here for a bill to legalize a travel agency. If the bill of the law is assumed to be the current travel law, No. 73/2005, let go. In other words, the bill includes new travel laws, travel councils, and part of the license team in tourism. It is designed to be independent but aside from the bill for the packing and the interrelated travel arrangements that I will measure afterwards as well. The main changes from the current traveling law to the management board of the party, changes in the role and objectives of a travel agency, should be a travel agency to set up a security program, a day's legal rights for a travel agency, and a decision to transfer to the package travel laws and a synthetic travel arrangement. The role of a travel agency is further set out, in line with the conclusion of the Government Review in a travel case report from October 2017. The first chapter of this bill is about the management of tourism and the special requirements of the administrative position of a travel agency acting as a minister of the travel agency. It also discusses the main objective of the Agency to monitor and promote the development of tourism as a vital and sustainable basis in Icelandic society. In this trend, it is necessary to take into account the European nature and community tolerance as well as to promote harmonisation, analysis and research in tourism. At that time, the work of a travel agency is better defined in nine sections where the Agency is specifically identified as a frontal role, interpretation and analysis of the need for travel services research. In addition, new projects in the Travel Office are linked with security plans and management of the activities of the new traveling council. Then, the role of the tourism Council is significantly altered from what is now, and its appearance is changed. There will be nine members of a tourist council. In the council, representatives of the key conferences associated with travel services will be in charge and should be in touch with the topic areas of the local Ministry, making sure that the level of coordination achieved by the council will continue to remain in the local Ministry. Other agents will be from the Union of Icelandic rural society and the rest of the travel agency. Further, the role of the Council will be redefined, although it will continue to be a consultant for a travel minister. Thus a minister should be hired to advise on the planned and long - term policy development of tourism, as well as to provide a specific perspective on tourism, future development, and the interaction of this article and the interconnection of the government. In that case, it will be possible to operate professional advice on the market of tourism, transport and environment. On January 1, 2020, it is expected that a new traveling council will begin. The reason is that we have an active tourist control center, but now it is expected to survive to October 2020. That's why the date here is second and second, but the force of the law, which is July 1st, 2018, i.e. so that there is a common harmony in that change, and this conversation is not being added. The bill contains changes in terms, definitions and allows for travel services, but changes are also involved. due to the implementation of package travel directives and a synthetic travel form No. 2015/2302/ESB compare a bill to a song with the same name that I will measure after this background. The people who have so far had a travel agency's license and thereby have permission to sell packages will be given a new schemer license at the law's execution. Those who have so far had travel licenses will have to evaluate their supply of trips to see if they will fall under the standards of package travel and interconnected transportation. They will either agree to be a traveller if the trip does not include a package trip or a synthetic trip or a plan to sell. Packings. Today's accounting services and information centres are also required to document their activities at a travel agency. The bill cancels a requirement for registration of this activity, since most accounting services will fall after the conversion to the term "salter package travel or traveler of day-to-day and will need permission for this activity. The product is then required to register an information centre. In 2014 a travel agency group returned a report on a simple environment and regular work in the tourism service. The report included: suggested that legalize specific safety requirements that apply to tourism companies who organise and offer planned trips to the country. The report shows that economists have identified the importance of the safety of tourism and those who work in this article have appropriate knowledge and training. In this regard, I have often had conversations with the article. The bill suggests that the mandatory tourism providers are expected to plan a security strategy. The safety programme should be based on safety concerns including Response plan, risk assessment and case report. A travel agency is designed to monitor the security programmes and to update them regularly, but the responsibilities are the business. A report on simple work environment and tourism regulations is also suggested that a travel agency be provided with additional permission to deal with violations of the tourism directives. According to current law, a travel agency does not have the authority to use burdensome measures in administrative matters, such as day fines or government fines, but it is suggested here that a travel agency be granted the authority to plagiarism. So, with a day's fine, a travel agency will be able to force parties to comply with the laws of the law, e.g. On leaves, security plans and so on. Other laws include transport of Article V. of current travel directives, ocial insurance restrictions, package travel laws, and interconnected travel options, and some changes are made to explain the terms of the license team. V.E.G. President. The bill I have recommended here is intended to better characterise the role of a travel agency, to enhance the Agency's role in the research of tourism and the security of tourism, as well as to adapt legislation to the reality due to its implementation of a package travel directive and a synthetic travel proposal. As noted in a recent report on the tolerability of tourism, the need to improve the tourism research environment is needed in this country, and failing in the bill is required by assigning a travel agency to identify the need for research that may include. Applying government policies in cooperation with industry and tourism research institutions Also, governments have responded, e.g. Last year, when the Ministry allowed some time for travel, I have contributed to the priorities of some of the funds in strengthening research in the article that is very important. The bill also responds to a report by the National Review of Travel Administration from October 2017 where it was found that travel directives needed to be revised and to set a clearer policy in the media. In addition to the fact that I have already reported the separation of the role of a travel agency, I would like to mention that working on policy policy is now present at the Department of Professional Roads and Developments, as well as the work being done on projects that are preparing it for the management of tourism. After this discussion, I suggest that the matter be passed through 2nd. and for the discussion of second. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u138	A respectable president. I recommend here for bill to legalise the package tours and the interconnected travel arrangements. The bill introduces the European Union's directive to the European Union in Icelandic legislation. The directive is now valid for the summer, and the bill is submitted to allow the law to take effect at the same time. The bill suggests a new overall legislation on the use of packages and the interconnected travel arrangements that replace the older layers of trajectories, No. 80/1994. This law introduced an earlier travel directive from 1990 to Icelandic, but there have been significant changes in tourism and trade practices since the period of time called for an update and review of the principles of the older directive. This review of the European Union's field yielded a new directive adopted in 2015 that will now take effect in the summer, as previously stated. The new directive is far more detailed than the older one, and its range of values is more clear. The information related to a seller is increasing somewhat in line with other recent consumer rights directives. tourist rights rules, e.g. when something is lacking in the implementation of the package or when changes in prices are made, a much more detailed way is stated than in earlier directives. However, there is not much chemical change, nor will the key principles on the rights of tourists in earlier law remain in force. Due to the clear definition of packages, more trips will fall under the standards of the law than have been established by older law. It is therefore expected that sellers who have sold trips that have so far fallen outside the range of older laws will have to adapt to the principles of these laws, where the trips will fall. As a result, they traders will become guarantees and rights, just as I'll be here later. This will inevitably result in an increase in cost for the particular segregators. In turn, however, increasing consumer protection will result in more people enjoying the rights of the law. The new directive and bill will have some impact on local members in travel services. Visitors to whom the bill touches can be appointed in about two groups. On one hand, those selling trips from Iceland to foreign destinations and those selling trips from abroad to foreign tourists who come here. It can be assumed that the space between the laws will allow more people selling trips within the country to fall under the rules of the law and therefore will have to meet a more detailed obligation as well as commitment and commitment. Sala package travel has for a long time been a guarantee, as well as a permit. Then it's going to stay. It is suggested in the bill that the arrangements on bail because of the package sale will remain unchanged. It is proper to insist that only sale on packages is a guarantee and that seals are to be separated from their books because of sale and sale of other types of service, since it is only a sale on a package to make bailable property. It has been done recently in the Ministry to look for ways to meet smaller travelers who sell trips within the country, while calculating the amount of insurance that traders have to rely on annually may be difficult for these smaller people. At the same time, they can be expected to increase because of the space of the law. The work that has been going on at the Ministry has been taken into account on the basis of the amount of insurance. how long travel is sold, how long a seller spends in advance from his clients, each destination for the cost of travel by tourists and other related factors. The directive provides considerable scope for the implementation of insurance obligations, and it varies greatly in the way in which these measures are carried out. However, it is evident that by considering the sale of packages, there will always be a major factor in the equation that leads to the financial level. This job is not finished at the Ministry, but it will continue and hopefully there will be changes to the economy over the next few years. The bill was prepared with the help of a group of staff who represented a travel agency and a neighbours lab, as well as the Ministry. The processing of the bill was guided by not burdening the economy beyond what was necessary for the declaration to be implemented sufficiently. In addition, the rules of the law were made clear, responsible, and the rights of tourists were clearly stated. With that perspective in mind, space for the implementation of the directive was assessed in that sources to provide increased demands and responsibilities for the non-employers over the directive's contents were not new. Is this pure induction, so to speak. As I mentioned in my introduction to the bill for the travel agency law, it is necessary to change the term use also in the laws intended to be accepted by the current travel directive because of the change in terms of the new directive. Those who have so far had a travel agency's license and are thereby allowed to sell packages will be given a new schemer license at their implementation of law. Those who have so far had travel licenses will have to evaluate their supply of trips to see if they will fall below the standards of this law. They will either agree to be a traveler of day - to - day travel if their trips do not include a package trip or a synthetic trip or a plan to sell. Packings. V.E.G. President. The bill I have recommended here is aimed at increasing consumer protection in the transport sector, promoting competition, and explaining the rules of how it works. After this discussion, I suggest that the matter be passed through 2nd. and for the discussion of second. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u139	A respectable president. I recommend here for bill on deck. 616, No. 433. It is a bill for a legal adjustment in the Law on Fishing Fund, No. 72/2008. Fish stock is an independent fund in the state and in the management of a marine eco-efficiency minister who has the responsibility of providing loans or funding for projects that serve the goal of promoting fishing, improving fishing status, supporting research in rivers and lakes, and increasing the value of fishing. Fishing Fund was established in 1970 by law No. 76/1970 about salmon and trout fishing. The fund now has law No. 72/2008, as previously said, on January 1, 2009. The sea is carrying a government made up of five people appointed by seafaring and agricultural ministers for four years at the same time. Two members of the Committee shall be appointed according to the appointment of the Land Association for Fishing Association, one according to the appointment of the National Association for Railing Association and one according to the appointment of the Land Association of Fishing. Mr. Secretary appoints an officer without a form. Guards must have the same order. Projects in management of Fishing Funds include: to provide annual bills and regular overview of the fund's activities for Ministers, to make decisions on the yield of their own money, and thirdly to make decisions about how to make donations and expenses. For the work of the Fishing Fund, pay is paid by a commission determined by the Commission according to a time report sent by the head of the Ministry at the end of each year. All the costs of Fishing Fund work are paid off from the fund. The budget of Fishing Fund is first charged with collections of fish revenues, secondly profited by their own money, third of which is government funds, and fourth of all other income, as shown by Article 4. The law. In addition, fishing rights should be paid for the Fishing Fund 2% of pure revenues of rivers and lakes per calendar year. A fishing room handles the stress and collects the price, as is Article 6. The law. At the national hunting club's main meeting in 2016, a resolution on Fishing Fund was adopted, which includes: Until the main meeting of the European Union's Fishing Association covers the management of getting the Fishing Fund changed to cut down the year - to - year fishing fees that run to the fund. There will continue to be a continuation of funds with constant emphasis as his present money lasts. On logic support for the above motion for a change in law No. 72/2008, concerning Fishing Fund, the National Association pointed out that a number of larger projects for which Fishing Fund has been estimated to be finished, and the funds have not been so much needed for capital, but they have not also raised money from previous years. By letter, by day. September 6, 2017, a group of workers returned their proposals to the minister of the sea and agricultural sector. It suggests the reduction of the year's ebbing of hunting companies but continues to increase in intensity with what has been spent in the past few years until the funds are emptied. There is also a suggestion that the laws of the law on the maximum of the individual funds should fall. Also proposed to reduce the number of representatives in the government of the fund by one, i.e. representative of the Land Network of Fishing. Four of the board would remain and be suggested that the Chairman's vote outweigh when a vote falls evenly in the board. Then there is a proposal to bring down the law's law on penalties. The main evidence for the proposal is that one of the main roles of Fishing Funds has been to support the development of fish roads to open the habitats above the rivers of spawning, fishing, and fishing for salmon fish. The need for such things was great when the law was laid down, but it is now vital to build up. The fund also strengthened the construction of marine farms for wild institutions, but today there is no need for such grantings. The reference to the above is suggested in the bill that there will be a record of changes to the law No. 72/2008, the fishing fund proposed by the staff. Among other things, it is suggested in Article 2. The law of the law will be replaced by the administration of four men and the removal of the following commands: helped in Article 4. for the money of the treasury, for the ordinances of the fifth part. for the price of the wares, of the measures of six. for the pressures and collect the fees of hunting incomes, 1st and 3rd, par. The law that deals with the minimum financial height of his own money and, finally, 10. about penalties. A respectable president. Otherwise, I would like to refer to the series of articles that follow the bill, which contains a detailed discussion of the bill and an explanation for its contents. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u140	A respectable president. I recommend here for bill on deck. 655, figure 456. It is a bill for the legal adjustment of wrappings, No. 80/2004. The bill is written at the Department of Professional Road and Development. The reason for this bill is the Aldulis's agent for the Ministry of Professionals and Development. The agent's appointment pointed to a short delay according to Article 44. The law. If an agent was right to call the Ministry's attention on this case, as judicial hearings in accordance with the regulations of the law usually begin to pass before the party has been informed of a decision. As a result, the Ministry examined the matter and concluded that the adjustment was needed. The main reason the law needs to be changed is that it should be clearly stated that once it has been published by the participants, they will start an omission. This bill suggests changes to 42 and 44. It's an apartment-shaped. On the one hand it is suggested that the party should be informed as soon as possible on the basis of the results. However, it is suggested that delay in requiring review due to the review should only start after the review has been published. The current legislation covers a period of 15 days from the date of the assessment, which is based on 15 days from the date of the review. The procedure proposed by the bill, to start a lawsuit when the hearing has been published, ensures a more careful administration than the current situation. So here it is, in my opinion, the necessary change. A respectable president. I've traced the main points of this brief and small bill, but I would like to refer to the second - part series of articles that follow, which contains a detailed discussion on its contents. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to a 2nd. ... andwhat. Promissary committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u141	A respectable president. I recommend a bill on deck. 656, No. 457. This is a change in various laws related to fish farming. The bill is the basis for the work and innovation of the Ministry in consultation with the Environment and Resource Ministry. The bill has provided some adjustment to the law No. 71/2008, no. 60/2006, about protection against fish diseases and law No. 7/1998, the method of loyalty and pollution. This bill is adopted in the implementation of a government policy as stated in its declaration of policy, which says, by permission of the president: A growing industry, which includes opportunities for work development, has to be developed with extreme caution in line with the advice of scientists so that biodiversity will not be threatened. At the same time as the growth of this article, the necessary laboratory and normal monitoring of environmental impacts must be ensured. As fish fuel grows in the spine, a future payment plan for the permit is needed. The bill is based largely on the proposals of a fish farm policy group made in a report by the marine eco-efficiency and agricultural ministers from August 2017. At the same time, several aspects of fish farming are changed or removed according to law on legal reviews of the law. The aim of this legislation is to strengthen fish farming so that European fish farming is created the best possible conditions for building, and thus fish farming becomes a strong and powerful sector, while promoting responsible fish farming, in which sustainable development and protection of the environment are guided by science and research. It is important to discuss this matter by identifying the current state of fish farming in this country. The report of the above - mentioned task force includes Refer to fresh water and groundwater as an example of the strength of the branches, as well as unmanageable and unspoiled nature. There would be no restrictions on foreign investments, and strict demands would be made for the operator. As an example of the weaknesses of fish farms here, the task force mentions a lack of research in Icelandic fish farming, a weak infrastructure, a time - consuming process, and a distance from major markets. It is my hope that by this legislation the structure of fish farming will be increased so that it can grow naturally in agreement with key stakeholders and, especially, that the image of Icelandic fish farming will become environmentally friendly which relies on Icelandic fish farms'special status on the market. The government's policy is to exercise extreme caution in the development of fish farming and to base its decisions on the development of fish farmers on the advice of scientists. It is necessary first step in implementing this policy to validate the genetic risk assessment and to re-evaluate it. The bill thus assumes that the Marine Research Institute will produce a genetic risk assessment that will be proposed to produce fertile farms in seashells at any given time. In accordance with the published risk assessment by the National Competent Authority, changes in management practices will then be required. It is important that the possible effects of the genetic mixture of farm fish with wild salmon strains are avoided and the need for a management license to reflect the level of fertile salmon in the fire where there is a risk of genetic mixing. In addition, it is suggested in the bill that the risk assessment will be reviewed on a regular basis by the Marine Research Institute so that the latest results will be based on research and monitoring of the possible genetic preparation of farms with wild strains. As a result of this concern to the government's research and monitoring of the environment, the bill also allows for a special source of marine research for temporary research on fish farming in Iceland's fish - fishing weekend, the Agency alone or in cooperation with others. Such legislation should facilitate and provide the needed research for fish farming and, in particular, marine farming attempts. Due to the results of the genetic risk assessment, there may be considerable contribution of the license for unfertilised fish. The bill reflected the government's will that the MAH uses its resources to fire on unfertilized fish. It is thus assumed that fire on unfertilised fish will be reserved in the marine farm environment budget, and this is for a temporary discharge, in effect, intended to apply to the end of the year 2025. The purpose of the law is to encourage the fire of unfertilized salmon. At the same time, the bill contains a special provision that includes the loss of unfertilized salmon by specific rules if not used. If such a production warrant is dropped it is expected to be reassigned to interested business members in accordance with new license protocols. The government gives special attention to research and fire of unfertilized salmon, which can replace fire with fertile powder. The same is true of fires closed with fire equipment in the sea rather than traditional sea pens. So I've decided to make an assessment of the practicality of using unfertilized salmon and closed farm cooking equipment. It is my hope that such a assessment will be possible to further use these methods of cooking in the future and gradually reduce the use of fertile farm fish in seawater. I assume this assessment will be completed by December 1, 2018, with a suggestion for possible action on this subject. The current law-enforcement environment offers candidates' race for farms where fish farms choose territory. This race can lead to a conflict between candidates in terms of diffusion and inconsistencies with other uses in the current market. At the same time, the overall efficiency of the areas is not guaranteed. In view of this, changes in the current system of permission are proposed. This suggests that feed areas will be replaced early in the license process after a thorough review procedure. A marine research centre will thus divide the remaining areas of burden tolerance in a suitable fuel area with the most practical use considered. The bill then assumes that these areas of fire will be distributed by public advertising and on the basis of the most favorable offer. It is suggested that we assess the best available offer. to examine experience in fish farming, social responsibilities, financial strength and standards that measure how a donor has practiced his business and information on how an offerer intends to operate, including Based on environmental considerations. It is expected that the oer will pay the price for this license and that it will be non-timely. In comparison, the current employment license is issued to ten years at a time, but the Marketing Authorisation Holder will not pay for it at any time in accordance with current legislation. It may then be noted that in the economy and innovations, a bill for a fish farm is now being worked on, based on the proposal of a fishing policy group in the implementation of the tax. The bill is suggested to be recorded in law No. 71/2008, about fish farms, a special provision for the internal surveillance of fish farms. This makes internal surveillance requirements clearer. With a new general law on internal surveillance, the Food Agency is authorized to reduce the incidence of surveillance visits by the Directorates of the Marketing Authorisation. This directive suggests that the risk of fish farming is at risk, meaning that commercial fish farms, which work in accordance with the requirements of law and administration, receive fewer monitoring visits than those that do not meet the requirements. In addition, it will be authorized to commit to the head of the administration holder if it is violated by internal Affairs, its testing and its implementation. Because of the importance of surveillance of salmon lice, the bill assumes that internal monitoring of the marine farm will include monitoring of salmon lice in the fire. The results of an alarm should be sent to a Food Institute, which will determine whether and what actions are needed for salmon lice in the particular fish farm. The results of the alarm will also be published publicly. It is also suggested that a clear Regulation be set in law No. 60/2006, about fish diseases, monitoring and measures for salmon lice. It will thus be possible to state the obligation of the operator to count salmon lice under certain circumstances and to respond to an increase in the number of lice in the event of situations requiring this reaction, but it is important that governments respond rapidly if specific measures are needed for this disorder. The bill assumes that the information supply of fish farms to the government will be more extensive and more frequent than at present. The evidence for increased demand for information is that governments need to monitor production volumes, development of practical use options and maximum allowed production in a designated area of observation and, in particular, of the current policy programme. Governments are expected to be authorized to publish officially specific information from company management and monitoring, including the results of the Commission's work programme. electronically. At the same time, governments will be permitted to make public decisions about the use of forced measures and repairs. The aim of all of this is to increase transparency in the activities of fish farms and, by this change, to provide public information on how individual enterprises meet the requirements of law and government directives. Information from monitoring and possible infrastructure thus support companies and increase the protection of the legislatures of the legislature. In the bill, it is new that the Food Agency should announce its proposal to run a license for fish farming companies. The Food Organization has so not advertised a proposal for a license, but the current publication of the license has been criticized. It must be given to the public free organisations and to those with interest, directly or indirectly, the opportunity to comment or comment on the version of the license and its terms. A food management agency can thus take their position on comments and tips before releasing the license. At the same time, it is stated that the Agency should advertise the distribution of the Commission. This arrangement complies with the current laws on loyalty and pollution. It is assumed that the Food Institute is authorized to place government fines in fish farming companies that violate certain laws on fish farms. Only by repeated and very serious violations of the law will it be used, and it will serve its evil purpose. With the development of a governmental fine, it is possible to set fines in accordance with the financial benefits of the offense and thereby use instruments that have a significant warning to the authorities responsible for the legal process. The bill assumes that the activities of fish farms will be as previously dependent on the Agency's work permit and will be monitored. The proposals of a fishing policy group were set up to report to the EEA if the EEA would cancel the work permit. This change from proposals of the group was made to agree with the Environment and Resource Minister. It is my hope that despite this variation from the proposals of the group and the reconciliation there, there will be an agreement on the subject of this bill. I want in the context of the fact that one of the main objectives of this legislation is that there will be a greater reconciliation of fish farming between key stakeholders so that the fish fire can grow naturally. A respectable president. I've only listed some of the key elements of the bill. Other than that, I would like to refer to its work, which contains a detailed discussion and an explanation for the subject of the bill. It is my belief that if the bill becomes the law, the government's influence on future fish farming will be increasing. This will enable us to make more specific decisions on the future development of fish farming in this country, thus increasing our understanding and agreement on the structure of the article under the strict environmental requirements. The effects also require increased requirements for the administration of the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) with restrictions on reproduction of fertile salmon and with increased and more efficient monitoring. With increased transparency in the management of fish farms and clear wood layers, I also anticipate an increased warning effect of this legislation. In the beginning, I said that the aim of this legislation is to strengthen the production of fish farming so that a new fish farm will be created the best edifying conditions so that it will become a strong and powerful business in this country. If such production of fish breeds remain, a positive effect may be expected on communities. Of course, this is mainly the case. But with increasing fish farms, the income of rural society and the state of the fish fire will also increase. Concomitant development of fish breeds will increase infrastructure requirements and services in relevant rural areas. In this way, increasing expenses may be expected if community services are to be improved and transportation is to be improved. In this regard, it is only right to reiterate that in the industry and innovations the bill is being prepared to legalize the resource costs of fish farms. It will be suggested that marine fish farms pay resource bills to the head of the MAH. It is not expected that land's fish farm will pay that price. This is how resource costs will be imposed on all fire companies that use a common resource for the operation. It is assumed that most of the resource charge will be used to build timbers in areas used in the construction of the fish farm. Here we see the building of social service and transportation in areas where land is infested with water. At the same time, part of the resource budget will be considered to be a contribution to the Environmental Fund of Marine Farms, including to improve monitoring and research in fish farming. A respectable president. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u142	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The ocean leader of a forward bill, who hopefully gets a good, useful coverage and payment here. Here is a bill to correct the change in the laws associated with fish farms. The basis for permission and other such factors is the risk assessment that is very important for open and ongoing development. Fish farms are ready to work with scientists that acceptable solutions must always be on guard. It is therefore important that Merit Research Institute operates on updateing the risk assessment as the companies believe they have a better solution. In the bottom-fish feeding program, a Habitat Research Institute offers advice to the Minister who calls for reviews and then gives the final decision for himself, but it appears here that the Habitat Research Institute has been expected to be the last to make. It is desirable that the risk assessment is not contained in an inflexible system. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister if it cannot be ensured that a similar process can be carried out in this way, as e.g. ... incharitors.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u143	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It is true that this is a basic change, as it were, of fish farms, and of what is about to turn the fire into Icelandic seawater. It is being legalized, the risk assessment, in an effort to ensure that wild salmon and farm fish do not get mixed up with this assessment for which the Marine Research Institute is expected to work. As with the stock size food in bottom fish or intensification fish, we also rely on scientific counseling and research. It should be acknowledged that we have not come far in the field of fish farming. It may be that while we are continuing to feel in this new reality, we need to do it in some other way, more revised, etc. There is certainly evidence that a secretary would prefer the scientific profession, but such a decision must be very convincing and based on some other scientific conclusions or research but have been made in this case of the Marine Research Institute. To be honest, I have no reason to believe that the Merition Institute, such as any other government agencies, will do anything but work on the basis of best available knowledge at any time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u144	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I can agree with him on the fact that we have to be most careful in these matters, and we can agree that science and regulations are important. The growth and maintenance of the fire must certainly not be at the expense of nature or wild salmon. We are to respect our major scientists, but we have been afraid that they will be locked up in some hard - and - fast system. We just need to keep an eye on it, and I'm just going to underline it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u145	A respectable president. I think there's every reason to be on guard about this, especially when we are, as I mentioned in my previous answer, to feel us into a new reality. For one thing, on Tuesday evening, I have decided to attend a meeting in Bolungarvík. I requested to the Agency that it go out into the area to introduce the emphasis on the risk assessment and the work it has on these topics. I've seen in my job that there's a considerable amount of misunderstanding and, in fact, ignorance of what this device is doing. I think that in this situation it is by far the most likely to meet with the relevant experts and the Agency in the field, and to spend the entire amount of time with people and companies who are naturally and understandably interested in them and with the support of building up jobs in their own territory.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u146	A respectable president. I'm glad we're here for the bill of changing the laws related to fish farming, which include: to ensure that the industry builds up and becomes at peace with the environment. As a result, it has been shown that it is important to build trust and reconciliation around this structure to ensure sustain sustainability. There are two things I would like to ask in this regard. On the one hand, there will be an untimely license, and I may have asked for further explanation from the minister of the untimely permits and then the permission of the 16 - year term and the conditions of the companies to keep allow. Is it possible for companies who do not fully use permission to maintain business permit or to maintain a specific area and other aspects of it? However, I would like to ask if there's some kind of shift in the bill. One of the causes of considerable suspicion is that monitors are often in the area of high station, away from the companies who are engaged in this activity, and that is not to be said, what should be said, not necessarily every day, but at least every day. not to this monitoring, which is often important, just to be alert to specific environmental signs without making special visits that may cost hundreds of miles per road.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u147	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the inquiry. First about the licenses and the reasons to extend to time or to do this untimely. It hangs with what is being proclaimed in the bill, that there will now be a fee for the licenses that humans desire to use to raise fish in Icelandic seawater or water. Up to now, time has been reduced, on the other hand, ten years of employment, if I remember correctly and 16 years of business cover. The plan is now to synchronize this and then start a payout. We don't know how long the company will want to build up or stay at work, but the pay will take into account that it is a temporary license. We're starting to work on that bill, and hopefully we can show it in the fall. Asked if companies would have to fully use their license. This is the basis for the version of the Allows which assumes that if they do not fully use the license, they will be accepted and offered to others for use. The thought of this is not that a person can sit on a license for as long as he can think of the arrangement today. We've been strengthening it. I might get to that in my second answer. There is a full need to strengthen your surveillance. It is now being divided in the bill between the EEA and the Food Organization. The environment already controlled by the Food Organization is much better established by the EEA, that the Agency supervises these aspects. Whether we're going to make a better impression on our territory, we've got to find out what time it is. [[The president calls.]] However, it is absolutely essential in this bill that the monitoring system of this work be greatly strengthened.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u148	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The minister's answer is and is pleased to have kept his watch up. I think there's a very important part in building trust and harmony. It is important that both the Agency and the Food Organization do so. There have also been reports of whether one of these strains or both could negotiate with local health monitoring of the local community for some aspects of the surveillance that may even require more attention than can be done long distances. Of course, there is another possibility that monitors will live in the vicinity of the fish farm.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u149	A respectable president. In fact, for the monitoring factor it is considered to simplify it and to strengthen the area where possible. On the other hand, I refer to the fish - based factors that have been put up with a high standard of observation in some areas that may be ineligible, as the local authorities say. But I will not shut it down at all. That's a long road away. I have the privilege of strengthening health care at the most nearby level. If I recall correctly, this point will be discussed in part in a bill on the Food Institute, where we will open to its cooperation and to the health - care committees of rural society. In fact, I feel that there is a very serious discussion to be taken with the aim of uniting this check together, which is a common Food Institute and Health Committee. [[The president calls.]] It is vital that you start taking it in the nose, as they say.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u150	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for presenting this bill and for his figure in this matter. It has been informative to watch the development of breeding plants in recent years and, in fact, decades. I have had the opportunity to visit salmon farms in the West, and it's really fun to see how much technology has worked, and how much this is being built up in Western Europe, which for years have undergone business and living conditions. This bill contains, as we have seen, a change in various laws. I've been trying to get my hands on what it's all about. This was shown as in the risk assessment and waste of a cage called a trajectory. I don't quite understand what those rules are like. It has been said that this is not completely carried out in areas where the fish fire has been, how the surrounding areas are treated. All of this needs to be, as shown in the minister's speech, in harmony with both the environment and the issues involved. Similarly, the minister entered a resource charge, and I would like to ask him what it's like to think, in the form of it. Is that something similar to that of the fishing source? It's similar with salmon lice, and I'm asking, "Is there any way we can keep it down? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u151	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. I don't know how to hold on to salmon lice. It's a little creature, and it's complicated, but it's growing really fast. It is obvious, however, that everywhere the salmon fire is set out in sealands, these conditions spring up and create problems and should be treated with extreme caution. The Norwegians have been in a lot of trouble with her. Surely you can continue to feel the solution to it. It contains, for example, extreme development in closed carnivores. I don't understand all of it, from which there is a long way. I mentioned the resource charge. Yes, the NTSB proposal is tore it up as an idea. That could be 15 k. a kilo of salmon, which for 67,000 tons of production would pay about 1 billion per year. These are the ideas that were involved in this discussion and that will be a set stage for working with them. That's right. That's right. A senator, therefore, follows child disorders when such a massive leap is being made up of a particular profession. Not only are humans impatient after this is done but they vary, there is a great demand, especially in the west and the east, after this job structure is maximized. All of this is totally understandable to the point of view, but I restate on the policy presented in this bill, that contact with our lost institutions will be put in the background when we act on the construction of this industry. I think these two things can work out very well together. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u152	V.E.G. President. I thank the Minister for that answer. I asked about salmon lice because the meeting at the employment committee arrived that day, visitors who had new kinds of heifers injected into the sea and formed a circuit in the cows so that their lice do not survive. So I had a little nasty question. I'm also glad to hear about the resource charge and the idea is that it's going down into the back of the home, at least Partially. Then there was a matter of genetic preparation, and these attempts, too, made me happy to hear with unfertilized salmon. I've often wondered why that experiment operation hasn't started so long ago. That discussion has not been a big one. I'm glad to hear that a minister intends to promote it. [[The president calls.]] I hope it works well, because of course, wild salmon may not mix with farmed salmon.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u153	In terms of the castax, it has not gone beyond the fact that it has been rather difficult for the Norwegians to experiment with. We haven't experimented with this ourselves, but it's the monopoly that is paying close attention and taking a position in case of opportunity. I've decided to promote it, there are full ways to do so, and then I'm using the marine farm fund to support the research in this situation as well as to support factors that can turn to closed farms that can include. prevents the luscious tears that everyone wants to get rid of. There's a lot going on here. Progress is rapid, and there is good reason for optimism in my mind that both of them can work together, both the work structure and the protection of the organic polydiversity. Both of these things should work together if we are careful and take slow, safe steps. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u154	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a bill to correct a fish control law. 116/2006, beach fishing. The case carries a professional committee. I'm gonna go over the bill a little, but it says, The Law adds another provision for provisional action: Despite 2 mg. Section 6. a Minister to 31 August 2018 will limit coastal fishing to 12 days before each ship, within a month, the month of May, June, July and August. A fish lab can stop coastal fishing by advertising in the Management News when it is shown that the total resources of coastal boats exceed the quantity required for coastal fishing under Regulation No. 607/2017 of commercial fishing during 2017/018. Each coastal fishing vessel is permitted to reach the state as a VS, and is considered to be inadequate to its maximum at each level. Count 5. 5 mg. Section 6. a. 2.g. It reads: "This law has already come true when it comes to validation and August 31st, 2018. The report on this bill is as follows: The bill is submitted by a professional health committee with the support of an officer on the committee. Coastal fishing has been practiced since June 2009. The weather has been successful and has proved to be a successful innovation in the control system of fishing. Since 2010, an average of 674 boats have been fishing each year. The bill suggests that coastal fishing boats will be authorized to fish for 12 days each beach fishing month. In most cases, the products of coastal fishing boats are sold at a fishing market. In recent years, the use of fish for exporting fish has been an exemplary model for long - term fishing, and less is involved in the survival of larger ships and boats because of the telecommunication of the summer boat. The fish of coastal fishing boats have proved to be valuable exports. At that time, the coastal fishing has included the means for commercial fishing without the need for fiscal financial resources to pay for markets. Thus, coastal fishing has been an important factor in meeting the views of those who feel that changes are needed in the fishing system to ensure a rich share in fishing. The changes presented here also include a procedure to increase the safety of sailors on coastal fishing boats. The defect has been in the existing arrangement for fishing to have been what is called ◯Olympished, showing that sailors have striven to obtain what is permitted as short time as possible and before the source is restored. As a result, some people calm down on smaller boats, although not wet, and they are, of course, subject to serious accident risks. With the proposed change, it should be a great reduction in the impulse to ◯Olympian parishes and thus the risk of accidents. Coastal fishing fees are higher than other fishing groups. The weather is defined as a special hunt, so each person pays for a year's fishing permit. At the same time, 50 points are paid. K. which is assigned to the land's ports in proportion to the land's agricultural resources. Based on 15.7 tons of cod, the average power of each boat last year, these costs are about one quarter higher than those of catch boats. The scenario appears that way, and so is an example cited below. In addition to the above, there are many other fees, e.g. Fishing fees, comparable to those paid for fishing other boats. For example, in the case of many, the cost of fish markets, trades, ice bills, car bills, refuse fees, telecommunications fees, and the cost of boating, lifeboats, and medicine box. The objective of the bill is to improve the environment of coastal fishing and disappear from the internal factors of what creates an increased risk for fishing. Close sites will be maintained each month when the expected volume of hunting is achieved. Cumulative tensions, such as formed each month, would be destroyed. For example, in August 2016, only a few days of fishing were allowed to occur in each fishing area, which is referred to here in the form and cemeteries. Since 2011 the codfish in coastal fishing has not been accompanied by an increase in total. A total of 9,247 tons are missing, referring to the table below. The bill suggests that this arrangement that has been permitted to fish for 12 days each month will be replaced. There will continue to be a ban on fishing Friday, Saturday, and Sunday to row, with a certain number of ◯red red days, as is now true of coastal fishing. The bill involves a change in choice of days and in terms of hunting at Úsa. The change in the bill applies only to the coastal fishing period beginning May 2nd. It is not appropriate to have a 12-day choice, since there is uncertainty about how much beach fishing boats are catching with this changed arrangement. With a reference to the above, the change is reasonable, both in terms of the rapid growth of coastal fishing in 2011 and in the cost of fishing. Then the change is also intended to make the fishing more attractive and to increase the interest of the younger generation, men and women, in performing seary by starting fishing. The change is now specially chosen to allow for a negligible possibility that a government-made trend will not follow. That's how this bill reads. We have received many reviews and many practical suggestions from the professional committee. Look who's walking. This bill has been recommended by a small boat owner's national relationship, and many societies have expressed great satisfaction with it. Other societies have certainly declared that they fear that there will be no enough power to endure all summer, that the power intended for coastal fishing would not last 12 days in August for all boats. I understand that. However, those companions who have been deeply concerned about this also show that if they were assured during the summer of the experiment, all boats will receive 12 days during the four months. Then they will support this experiment. I think it's important that we do it, and the work ahead is to make sure we make sure we make enough money to meet these 12 days for all boats. I refer to the answer to a marine economist and agricultural minister from earlier this winter on a question from what happened. Bjarni Jónsson's deputy asked how much money would be required to attend 16 days a month. Based on the response there would have been 12 days a month ago, for the number of boats in the last summer, 10,270 tons. Now we take it from having at least 11,200 tons in this common pot, so there should now be a table for a table. But I strongly suggest that shore fishing is going on. This is the tenth summer of a beach fishing season and has gained experience in it. Coastal fishing has been shown to have played a major role in strengthening the status of the smaller coastal areas, creating employment and good raw materials at a time that does not contain raw materials, even in the fishing markets, before initiating jobs in the country. The fishing industry has been very happy to have a beach catch when the armadas are finished with their armadas. Now it is time to look to experience and see what better can be done. Therefore, I feel that it is important that we generals and governments have the courage to experiment this summer and to ensure all 12 days each month, no matter where in the country, and then to take the position in the fall and see how we want to see certain, flexible and good coastal fishing arrangements for the future. I have no doubt that there is a desire here, totally out of class politics, that this article will develop and thrive. It is the core of these small areas of the sea, and it needs to be practiced along with others. Of course, the view of providing coastal fishing is quite free. I would personally support it if an agreement could be made at the council. But we take the steps on our own and get a solidarity together, such as with this case now, parapolitic, to do this experiment, to look at the stories that come on, and to strengthen it further. But we need to be quick if we're going to make this experiment this summer. It'll be reduced in the Sandglass. The beach fishing starts May 2nd. There's not much time left. I encourage Congress to carry on this great experiment. This bill is most welcome to shore fishing. The security is what has driven me to speak for this, to ensure the flexibility of men, and to fast the days of each month. In an effort to achieve that goal in the first few days of each month of the month, we cannot see that people are in Olympic hunting. Of course, there are different boats and sizes on beach fishing. The smaller boats are not competitive with the larger and more powerful ones going to the beach fishing after they finish their harvest in April. We have to look to it. The coastal fishing was initially intended to promote small boats in the country, a recent industry, and to keep that article moving forward. Our roots as fishers are in this article. It doesn't matter to me if there are doctors and lawyers in the mix. I think it would be good for everyone to get to know the life of the marine villages and go to the sea. It's just humane. Not everyone can adapt to the seaman work today, but this is one way to do so. But the security issue is of utmost importance, the flexibility, to have the ability to choose good weather days to go further out and get better and more expensive raw materials. I'm not gonna keep this case any further in the 1st. We will discuss this on a professional committee and need to hurry if we are to be able to finish it on time. We do well to review all the reviews, and we work this case as a whole on a professional committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u155	A respectable president. Here we are discussing changes in fish - control laws, on coastal fishing. I think it is important at any given moment to see if there is any possibility of improving legislation, but after a little study of the comments that have been received about the bill, I have serious doubts that we are on the right track. The concern of many from the smallest communities and settlements that have relied on this activity over the past ten years depends on the mitigation process to reduce the potential of certain parts of the country, North and Eastern countries, especially to the same share in the total resources. So I'd like to encourage them. The job committee to cover the situation very carefully, and after reviewing the report with the bill, I miss seeing a summary of days in the sea after areas or after months between areas so that the effects can be better assessed, how they might be affected differently. I'd like to ask the chairman if this happened to the committee, if she'd already considered that kind of information. If not, I challenge the committee to call for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u156	Mr. President. Yeah, I totally understand that question. But I'm not worried that anywhere in the country, north or east, west or south, the little TV lock will go out of it, considering how the system has been. There is a table over the number of rowers each month, the amount and so on, from the beginning that we need to introduce to the 2nd. and will be discussed on the job committee. The reality is that although more than a month had been in any part of the country or in these regional compartments, this does not necessarily mean that people have reached a full pattern in each row, the 770 unbound kilos that can be fished, but they have calmed down at a small cost and achieved little, taking many fishing trips, rather than necessarily reaching some valuables. With this arrangement, everyone sits at the same table, has 12 days, has the best days, has more chance of achieving full control and higher prices. Therefore, I do not fear that boats around the country will remain behind; although they have had the opportunity to row more days within a month, this has not necessarily paid off more value. If you live in a home bed where you live, you have to sign up where you live - you don't go between parts of the country with the related costs, they'd have to include. Find a house at high cost. They would see their best in calming away from their homeland. This system has always had about 50 boats wandering around the country. It doesn't change anything. But they shall see their best in calming away from their dwellings, and shall have twelve days a month to do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u157	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. However, the concern of the local government in these fragile areas is that boats and those with them will move between parts of the country. In fact, among the shore fishing groups, even homes in two parts of the country, as is true today, have summer homes in one place and winter homes in another. It is not difficult to move it between parts of the country in itself. That's what concerns me most. However, land or sea areas vary from sea to sea. In certain months, west and other east are better off. 12 days in one month may vary. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u158	I think it's unnecessary concern, but I totally understand that some of the local governments have any concerns. There is nothing that says that having these 12 days is impossible for humans to calm down from their territory. A recent study of the University of Akureyri reports that over 75% of those who are fishing for coastal fishing in this company want fasting days and are happy to have regular days. This is not necessarily the case, as it has been suggested, for every day of the month or for 16 days. Above all, there is more to wanting these fast days. They're just as good and bad after parts of the country. North, we'll catch a better catch in August, and we won't be as good on the west side as we can, so that we can make all 12 days safe, too, in August. I'll assume we're gonna do it. To perform this experiment, you are being added high to 2 ups. tons in the hot tub. This is an experiment that will be made this summer. Then we take the position for the benefit of coastal fishing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u159	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir for transporting this bill. I'm on the pro board, and that's why I'm on the bill. I did so most because we are taking steps towards greater security, as shown in the history and also the fact that this is an experiment to one year or just the summer ahead with the goal of reevaluating this in the fall. Coastal fishing is now entering the tenth year. When they were put in, I was very strange on them, but they have proved themselves to be a system that is as I have sometimes said a window for these young ones to come in and the old to go out and everything in between. Within the beach fishing fleet, there are men of all types, lawyers, teachers, and I don't know what, so it's gone very well and there's a national agreement on this system. I remember the time with other systems or day systems that sailed into the quota, at least three of them. That's what we need to be careful that this system is at peace as a beach fishing system. I think we all agree on that. I just want to kill on a few things. It says that countries can be cast as VS to some degree. Now it's so useless, I'd say it's okay that 10% of the Úsa would go straight to the fore, it wouldn't be too bad for anyone. [[The president calls.]] Other questions I'm going to make in my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u160	Mr. President. Over the years, I've seen in the comments I've read that if the 12 days were insured to every boat this summer every month, it would be okay. We're supposed to calm them together. I'm in the middle of this business with the envelope. It hasn't caught in the past few years. Prices of the sels are very low, I think, 50 to 60 bucks. the weight that humans have taken in cod salts in the catch that can be taken on each swing day. Now it's offered to be extracurricular, but to be a VS force. Why So Much Is to Be Done, 12 / 1 Or for men who take him as a VS fund, so you can understand the dissatisfaction of people to come with you to a country like VS fund and get very little for him. However, it is better than being taken out of the amount of calm that humans can bring. I'd like to have it examined by an unnew owl when the person who's been allowed to take the last fish year has not been taken, that they'll be looked at the use of the vagrants. I think we need to take a look at it on a professional committee with the extra resources. Of course, I can't promise anything about it, but I'm very pleased to see how he's going to be treated in all of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u161	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for that answer. 20% of the value of this VS fund, which we call Merro, is to go to development and 80% to the state. There is not much to do for men in his lands. Often, when these calls are at sea, they are 200 pounds [200 kg] of woof, and then they get shot of cod, perhaps giving them some extra tunes. It's not good to know. I just want to come into the broken ground and mention the relationship between North Fair. There's a bit of a special situation there, and actually somewhere else. It's got the biggest access boats in the world. I've got e-mails from there about the local government's concern about how that place is going to get out of this change. [[The president calls.]] They think most of them boats will leave the area and even go to area A or something. Has the senator looked at this in particular?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u162	Mr. President. Yes, I've read the concern of Aánesepps in this matter, and I respect their viewpoints, but I think we need to be precise about how much volume and how many days of rowing have been in the boats that have gone out there on beach fishing to see it. As I've understood it in B area over the head, this belongs to a B area, they've usually had the second-feet days in that area. I'd think that would be about the west side of the Hunsafans. It's good to settle from the North. There should be no barrier to those who have gone there and have a good position to carry on fast 12 days and to choose the best days to obtain the best materials and the highest price. [[The president calls.]] I'm not worried about that area, but I'd like it to be ten licenses for a grats fixed to Aarneshrepp, the good place.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u163	A respectable president. I'm celebrating this bill as an attempt to fix the beach fishing. It comes from a professional body committee, which is also happy to know that the committee's committees are increasingly involved. I'm especially glad to hear it. But I have some questions and doubts, of course. I wish the committee would take care of the matter and listen to the reviews, and I would like to point out some points. Weather conditions vary from country to country and from season to age. As in the Western Islands, there is rarely a crill. The sea is often very heavy, and few boats are there. Hunting varies from place to place. Also, the product varies from place to place and from time to time. I wondered, first of all, " Wouldn't it be more correct for sailors to be caught, and it would be calculated to them more than is expected in this bill? ' That instead of taking only 20% of their share of the utilities, they come and win the fish, bring him to land almost entirely free for a government fund? I think the committee will have to take a special look at this. I realize this bill is only temporary, but I wonder. I can't see any better than it's going to be Olympic, boy. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir. I think in July, August, when the entire budget is reached, it'll be Olympic. Then where do they go? Of course, they go to where the hunting is the best.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u164	Mr. President. I just agree with what. A senator on the outside. I think we could totally look into meeting the views where the cast has not been reached, the greeting that has been in the past few years. There's a lot of stuff in there. I understand very much that in this experiment you might bring the envelope except for this quantity that can be caught in every row. We must not take the risk of letting the envelope go overboard instead of bringing it ashore for a little 12 bucks. ... whichis hardlycorresponding to expenses. That's the risk you're taking. I'd be ready to look at it at least in this experiment in the summer how it would come out. But once again: What I read through all these reviews is that some people are very happy and have waited to have this flexibility and guarantee for days fixed, while others fear that the days will fail before August. Like what? A senator says, there are different fishing patterns, we know it altogether, and we need to make sure that 12 days, too, when well - fished fishing is done and in August in those areas. It would be unfair. I will do what I can to prove that it will be guaranteed all months, 12 days per boat. Otherwise, there will certainly be a danger of continuing the Olympic spirit. We're not calling for it. We call for security and flexibility in this system. Then we will need this experiment to evaluate coastal fishing for the future to have a permanent land under our feet by ensuring all 12 days.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u165	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir for these excellent answers. She gives a word that it will be considered, especially with the care, and also with the month, that it will be within each month. I'm really happy to hear it because I'm afraid that in those places where great power is like, for example. in areas A and B and even C will be deactivated as the summer passes and will be closed at the end of July and even August in other areas, and all regions. This makes people want to start in that area with the greatest hope, of course. You'd do it yourself. Thank you so much for those answers that were pretty good and I'd like to point out the answers to the highest degree. The marine road and agricultural minister to ask Bjarni Jónsson, who gives a good picture of these coastal fishing. [[The president calls.]] Very interesting reading.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u166	Mr. President. Yes, the final outcome is that everyone will be guaranteed for 12 days. That's the point. If everyone is secure, 12 days will cause concern that the sailors of Thorsve, Deepvavík, Cape of the Hornfjord, and Reykjavík, wherever they are, begin to become refugees in length and wide throughout the country. Then people are calm only at a place where they've made up and own their own home, have 12 days to work, and go to the sea when they're well stocked and pick up good raw materials. We're not calling on ourselves some Olympic spirit because this experiment is going to pass on him. We'll have them in solid ground with it. They'll know what they're doing. That's why I'm going to be like I've said calmly all the years to make sure because otherwise this experiment won't be the experiment I wanted to see. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u167	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to correct a change in the fish management law as presented here, a proposal from the employment board on coastal fishing. This is the second year of this experiment, me and the highest. The head of the Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttur Professional Committee set off this experiment a year ago, and unfortunately it didn't work out. It is as if things were winding up when they were on their way. Our main concern has been the safety of sailors. There's been a terrible accident at this hunt. We want to keep them from happening again. Hence, this route was found to ensure coastal fishing boats and sailors 12 days a month during the four months of fishing. That's what we started out with. I think it's important, and it's happened to the Chairman of the Committee, and it's clearly a great will here in the Senate Hall to ensure that it will be guaranteed. We have also received many envelopes from the Land of Smallboaters, small boat owners companions in many parts of the country, individuals, and other sources of great concern and doubt. Of course, there are some things that happen and walk, naturally. These matters will be handled very well on the pro board. We want to be careful with this assignment. We are going to guide us in improving the safety of sailors. It is the guide in this matter. All the other issues that have been presented in the discussion, with the resources and with that, are also excellent topics that we need to discuss and will definitely continue to discuss, as this is an experiment made only for the summer. I think we all have to make a considerable effort and a considerable contribution to the success of this experiment. I think that's the main thing. It is also clear that not everyone will be quite pleased with what this looks like. Not everyone's happy with 12 days. Not everyone is happy that they don't get to fish on weekends. All of us have opinions about that. We need to review it as well. The idea at the outset is to try to get these security reasons out of the way without overthrowing all the items involved in this system. It's very sensitive to be stirring this up and changing. We want to avoid it. We want to take one step at a time to increase the safety of sailors during a beach hunt. It's been shown here. We who are well - acquainted at the seaside know that the power of small boats has increased greatly in recent years. That's great. That's great. And it's great, of course, when these hardworking sailors arrive at the country's aquifers when there's a need for processing, for exporting fresh fish products from Iceland that this system has really come in strong. We want to continue to establish stronger subsystem support, increase safety, ensure that all parts of the country will be 12 days per month. It is the responsibility of the Committee to complete it as soon as possible. As shown in the case of the highest. The Chairman of the Committee has only a short period of time. It starts May 2nd. Then we're going to find out about this. We're talking about the 12 best days for the best fish in the ocean and for the market. With the power, we need to talk, too. I take the suggestions that have been made here very seriously. We have also discussed this previously on the committee under this point when we are talking about the small boat system that has grown very large in recent years. We've done well with them, they're also doing their job. Let us continue our course, continuing to ensure the safety of sailors on the sea.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u168	Mr. President. I want to thank you. The president of the Magnúsdóttir Electric Rafney Professional Board for the story and the interesting discussion that has already taken place. I am glad to hear that the members of the committee are willing to have a problem with the work that follows in the committee because I did not feel comfortable about it at the outset. The bill entered the committee five minutes before a meeting and was released from the committee at the same meeting almost without discussion. I barely got to book protests as newborns at a council that wasn't quite sure of what I was supposed to do. As soon as I saw how the hot tub was finished, I couldn't accept that bill. The purpose of the bill is made up of three aspects according to the report. First of all, the fishing warrants for small boats are to be increased by ensuring every beach fishing boat 12 days each month provided, i.e. May through August. Number two: The bill should be more secure for sailors, i.e. We will prevent a race at the beginning of each month's voyage in order to reach as much wealth as possible before the assigned volume is caught up from the sea. And number three: The bill is to make coastal fishing attractive and to increase innovation, especially among younger people. These are noble goals. I realize your intentions are good. But this bill doesn't make any sense. I must protest, not alone, based on comments. The total amount of resources that the Ministers hire for coastal fishing remains to be expected. The bill makes clear that a fish lab can stop the coastal fishing operation as it shows that the total power of coastal fishing vessels exceeds its maximum levels. The maximum amount determines the Minister of Regulation and further implements the coastal fishing by a different Regulation. In other words, there are no 12 days guarantees for any boat for any month. Not all sailors may be able to use their 12 days each month. This is subject to regulations. This is dependent on a catch target set on this painting target. With the continued intervention of the maximum fishing industry, we cannot guarantee increased fishing clearances by means of this bill. It is totally at the mercy and mercy of the Minister of Regulation. Thus, there is no increased fishing warrants guaranteed, or 12 days of fishing each month on this bill. And it's not for sailors. But it's getting even worse because it's winding up. In the same way, increasing safety during coastal fishing is prevented. These rigid targets are causing the race to ensure maximum share in the catch. The risk of subs getting to the center for almost any weather in order not to miss fishing is not over at all. On the contrary. Seamen in area B, C, and D, who hunt more late hours than fishermen in area A will be at greater risk simply to get a section of harvests before the whole party runs out. I object to this bill's subject. We have to change that. There is no way, therefore, to take these catch restrictions out and take out the fish company's warrants to stop the fishing. Let each boat have 12 safe fishing days each month. Let's give them a try this summer and then we'll see what's going on in the fall. The fishing capacity of the coast fishing fleet is not such that the cod population of Icelanders is falling upon that experiment. As a result, coastal fishing is out of control anyway. It's a full-scale control. It's on top of the parish now. There are rules on which days can be calm, rules about how long the level of propaganda can be, rules about maximum forces in each level of calm. It's just a matter of order on the color of the boat. [[The point is, isn't it?]] Blue. When I'm at the highest. A marine minister was asked about the effect of allowing boats to hunt four days a week for four months was clear: The total power would have been about 13,700 tons if we were to aim for a number of boats to be the same as 2017. Four days each week can be compared to 16 days a month. Here we are talking only about 12 days a month. Given the highest response. It'd be such a total of 10,500 tons. If we add off-line fishing and distribute it to shore fishing, we'll have a ground start for a 12-day system, a goal without a peak, without stopping fish from the fish lab, for the summer's experiments. We all know that a significant part of line integration, just like the EPAovian, has just been nothing new in the past few years. So this should not be the case. Seamen in all parts of the world would be happy, not just fishermen in area A. Then we can talk about greater freedom and higher levels of fishing. Then we can talk about the safety of sailors. Then we can talk about a replacement. But with a simple bill, we can't.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u169	Mr. President. Thank you. A speaker for the speech. I'm glad to hear she's well pleased about beach fishing. I've been to Congress since 2009, and I've had beach fishing since the beginning. Left green came coastal fishing, first Steingrímur J. Sigfússon became minister of the sea and later Jón Bjarnason. This case was already well - meaning in the land. Not everyone liked it at first, but I've had a lot of good allies at a council that wants to strengthen and promote coastal fishing. Hence, it was a great struggle to get everything together within the job committee. They had a basic job done before it happened, so it didn't quite fall out of the clouds at the meetings that lay. A senator refers to him. Hv. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson indicates that this experiment was also carried out last year. That's when we stood there. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson to her. They couldn't get it through, but the drop breaks the stone. As we fight for safety and for the added beach fishing in the country, we know we don't swallow the elephant in one piece. I don't see much in this case, which shows that there's a certain compromise. But as I've described in my case, the full understanding and wish for this experiment to be significant by ensuring the labor of all parts of the country, guaranteeing all boats registered to coastal fishing for 12 days a month, anywhere in the country. It'll be one pot and everyone should have the same rights. We're adding it to 2,000 tons from last year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u170	Mr. President. Thank you for answering. Before the bill entered the committee, it was presented as a mere 12 - day attendance point, 12 days per month per boat. I'm not the only one who's pointed to limitations on the bill, comments have come from here and there. It's not only northern fun, it's also Bakfjörður, and it's actually just the area A that's happy about it. That's where hunting begins, but they'd still want to start in April. The promise of a rising labor force is still in words, but this 12 - day rule with a high priority will result in the development of the region A they will dig up an enormous part of this area if all in the area of A receive 12 days in May and June. There have been most of the days, most of the boats, and most of the hunting. There will be very little left in July and August. The sailors in area B in part, but mostly C and D, would like to fish until September. They won't start fishing properly until the springtime. This is what has to be fixed. That is why this catch on top of the parish is unfair. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u171	Mr. President. This discussion will show that we are, I think, all of us agree that we are going to ensure this experiment for some of the quantity required to ensure 12 days everywhere. There won't be a national race. There's a lot of different fishing around the country, we know it. If all these little boat fleets are going to circle around the country, depending on where fishing is occurring, I'm not giving much money to the safety of sailors. They want to row from their home zone number one, two and three. If they know that they are secure 12 days each month, they are fished for land. We all know something for seakeeping. It's worse in area A when summer passes. June and July, it's a good time in the A sector, and August is good in the North and East. We know all of this. I think we're all going to be planning on making sure this case is the quantity needed. In response, it was found that considering the last summer, the number of boats, and the amount available then would have required 10,270 tons to ensure 12 days. Now we're talking about 11,200 tons and, of course, there's a table for a table. I completely understand the fear that it might lead to an Olympic hunting. Therefore, I trust we, wherever we are, will make sure that this experiment does not go out on some Olympic race and uncertainty about August, but will ensure that for 12 days all over the country for all boats. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u172	Mr. President. I think we all agree that we want to make sure these 12 days every month for every boat in any area. What I and others are saying is that while there is some catch point, it appeared very quickly on Area A. On average, it had six to eight days in May and June. They're going up to 12. They have 12 definitely days without any stopping.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u173	Weathers and so on.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u174	If I could just finish.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u175	Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u176	That's when they've caught a lot of quatans. If the fishing room and the catch line stop, most of the small boats will not be removed in area A. It's $300,000 to move a grad to the North Fair. It's not much if you can provide for your family with these coastal fishing. 700 families all over the country depend on this fishing. We must not start making fundamental errors by spinning in the system. The Icelandic fishing industry is a system of unpredictable consequences of some change someone thought to make. Yes, yes, we'll reach a cross-cutting agreement - but then we'll reach the right conclusion for everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u177	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Eymarsdóttir, the daughter of Eymar, for her inspired speech, and much of what the senator spoke about. Now, I have to say, it's pretty good in a little gratation to get 12 days a month. I don't expect any boats in the area of A Row 12 days in May, June, July, each month. But it may well come to pass. Such numbers have already been covered by wise men, such as those of the U.S. submarine owners, and they claim that this available pot will do enough to get fish out of August. I'm doing this experiment. Speaking of seamen's safety, I'm not exactly there. I've been a sailor for 30 years. The captain's responsibility is always number one. I don't think it's logical to blame for any of the accidents at sea. It is always the responsibility of the captain who makes a decision on the voyage. I can say with what. A senator on this law that if the catch is caught, I'll put a question mark on it and stop the fishroom. We'll discuss it on the committee. But I think it's the right thing to do this experiment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u178	Mr. President. I want to thank you for the debate. paritaprevir The Sigurður of Páll Jónsson's son, who is looking forward to winning this work on a professional committee. I think there's a lot of need for that. I was glad to see all those comments. But first the head of both the professional and the driving committees. A senator in his opponent now cites comments from the U.S. miniboat owners and interprets them as support for the bill, I think they should read the review a little bit more. It says, with the permission of the President, that it is an unyielding demand that if the bill becomes a law, there is no doubt that those who are interested in pursuing the Coastal Fishing of 2018 can be assured that there will not be a stop-by-the-concerned fish in the city's history. And later, however, the Council protests the rules of the bill on Fishing Institute's warrants to stop fishing... Moreover, they stress that it is very important to make sure that these 12 days of fishing are taken. You can't guarantee them by having a catch peak. It doesn't matter what algebra is using to calculate that account, it can't be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u179	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for that answer. Well, I'm not quite sure that's what I'm talking about. A senator calculated that this is not enough, but he gave the impression that it will be calm all the days. I want to believe it as hell. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir's daughter, president of the professional committee, said repeatedly earlier that this was guaranteed. She must have something to do with it. I agree to make this experiment and see what comes out of it. I'm not afraid it's going to be a total revolution and the system's upset. That's how I've looked at it. I have my doubts, but I'm not afraid the system is upset. After this discussion, we can take a closer look at the committee and hopefully make some adjustments, such as I came in earlier with the extra and more, and maybe this requirement of a small boat owner of the United States. Yet, the national Union expresses its joy with its bill, even though it also expresses concern. I interpret it in that way, as I think it. So I don't have this big worry as much as I have. A senator has.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u180	Mr. President. Yeah, I'd like to do the experiment, too. I think everybody wants to do this experiment. I have no question of good intentions. But I don't think there may be a sufficient understanding of the impact and consequences of this total volume. And the information that lays. A senator asked about days ago about the number of people in a beach fishing area, I have them. The shortest days, most of the stops, have been in section A because it's the biggest. That's why, if they get so many more days of loyalty and catch them at the beginning of the season, they just get a lot more of the catch. The small boat sailors in areas B, C, and D have been able to use most of their days, there's less power, really never stopped, and they've been able to make the full-time use of the days. Especially in the region of D. If this is going to have a climax so that, in fact, it can be stopped in July, they see this as a move in days they already have to section A. They are therefore very unhappy. They see it as a violation of their share to go somewhere else. A few of them, at least, have told me they'd rather just go to the area of A. [[The president calls.]] It's cleaner. They get to hunt only their days in peace at B, C, and D. [[The president calls.]] But I want to do this experiment. I want a clean goal. It's just not that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u181	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a law of law No. 38/2010, about an Iceland lab, with subsequent changes, on a threshing floor. 702. I decided last year to get a bill to work to legalize a change in Iceland law. The bill is now in place, worked by a group of personnel appointed by foreign ministers, secretary of finance and economic ministers, marine and agricultural ministers, travel, industrial and innovation ministers, and executive directors of the Association of Professional Affairs. Although the weight of the bill took place in recent years, its source is longer. The bill is based on a report by a staff group who gave the State Minister the report On Iceland in 2015. The role of the work group was to review a pan-European market and foreign service in order to assess whether a further marketing application could be undertaken. The service group offered some suggestions in this regard. to explain the administrative position of the Iceland Institute and the long-term policy in market and presentation activities in foreign markets in cooperation with employment and the government. The report was followed by suggestions for further implementation of results by a report of the workgroup. The bill is based on that work. The bill was written in cooperation with the schemes it touches, and above were cited, as well as in cooperation with the employment community. First, the main objective of the bill is to promote the cooperation of employment and the government in the market market markets, to improve integration and cooperation of its providers, secondly to make more efficient use of the funds and third, to explain the administrative position of Iceland by establishing the status of a private property agency. The objective of the adjustment is thus three factors: First, the aim of the change is to promote long-term policy-making of a market application with the establishment of export and market policies. Is it my opinion that the arrival of employment to policy-change policies and to the implementation of international support and services through Iceland offices, emissaries and other partners is essential to success. I can see a lot of changes in Iceland exports over the next few years and decades. The central business is moving east, and it is quite clear that in that direction transportation will soon improve. We need to prepare for this and at the same time nurture our competitiveness in close - ups. Second, the bill states that a service contract will be made between the state and the Iceland Office, an auto-reliance agency, which ensures that Iceland's rich business interests will be served as planned. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has the law as determined by the U.S. to protect Iceland's interests in foreign trades and thus markets and cultures. With a service contract at the National Institute of Iceland, she will be assigned to take part of this operation. The Foreign Service has already begun to revise the work in this regard. We are moving to activity from standard market market markets to new markets, the building of knowledge. Our people have put their business glasses on their noses. We have begun to increase the number of business organizations on key markets and to coordinate the services of our market hosts in Asia, Europe and North America. Third, it is the goal of the bill to eliminate uncertainty about the administrative position of the Iceland lab. As the Iceland Office becomes an automation agency, her business will become an exclusive foundation, and employment will be entrusted with an even greater responsibility than before in ensuring a legitimate focus on services and support for the commercial application of an enterprise on the market. I'd like to stress that an Iceland lab was founded to be a part of the community and the public. She'll still be there. That is the case with full solidarity. This situation is reflected, including In that more part of the board will continue to be made up of the professional organizations. It is important that the job life do its part, for it is in vain to open a door if no one wants or can enter that door. The key elements of the bill are attributed to chapter 3 of an article with the bill on a panel. 702. These include: 1st Export and market policies are proposed to play a key role in the development and follow-up of long-term policy. 2. Richer efforts will be put forth to work from market long-term policy in exporting and markets that will be implemented in broad cooperation between industry, government and rural events. 3. The situation of Iceland as a focus of employment and the government in the marketing of foreign countries is being developed, including by making clear its role in modeling long - term policy and implementing it. 4. It is recommended that the management of Iceland clinics, including on the basis of long-term development. 5. It is suggested that the trade of an Icelandic agency will be changed to make it clear that an Iceland clinic is run as an auto-regional agency in the cooperation of industry and the government. 6th The report will clearly show that measurable targets and measures should be used for the purpose and planning of the administration under observation and response of events. In 1st. The bill is a directive for the change of Iceland's management plans and suggested that the Iceland Office become an independent financial responsibility centre and work under a special planning registry. Centers this proposal to explain the administrative position of the Iceland lab. In 2010 and 2011, the U.S. government agent and the Commission decided on information issues to determine whether Iceland is in accordance with current legislation on this government, in the sense of administrative law and information law. Before that time, the Federal Accounting Study had expressed its view that it was necessary to explain the position of an Icelanding Office within the administrative system better. The bill suggests that Iceland's Office become a private institution and category as a private partner. To promote the image and reputation of Iceland, it is designed to be a cooperation project of industry and governments, to strengthen the competitiveness of Icelandic employment in foreign markets, and to attract tourists and investments to the country, as stated in Article 1. The U.S.A. law. Its activities are therefore more related to private business than to public government or organisation. An Iceland agency has so far been fired on such a private foundation, as well as on its export Council, the Presidency. The uncertainty that was on her position has been shocking, and therefore it is urgent to resolve her. So the bill is suggested by the changes in Iceland's management practices and the development of an automaton. It should be noted that law No. 33/1999, of the employment centres, will not be relevant to Iceland, a auto-replacement agency, the bill will be a law by which it is established by special laws that are more than universal. As a result, the change is proposed by the bill that the law's name will be passed in Iceland, an automaton agency, as stated in Article 9. The bill. It is suggested that its founder become financial and economic ministers and the workforce. The law says that certain laws do not fit the operation of the Iceland Office, but I'll find that out later in my history. Finally, 1st pars. The roles of an Iceland lab, an automaton, are thoroughly explained. The bill contains two documents, one set up for the National Institute of Organization, an automaton, and the other for the government's service contract at the National Institute of Iceland. Of course, these documents need more work, but I thought it was important for them to accompany the bill for presentation and to show the overall picture. Two. The bill is suggested to operate the export and market Council of exports, as well as to accept and monitor the implementation of long-term government and commercial policies prior to launch and export. It can appoint groups of work to discuss specific assignments. The National Institute of Iceland should be consulted for advice. The Council therefore plays a significant role in the market policies of Iceland in foreign markets. The Council would be appointed to 29 agents for four years and to equal numbers of reserves. Ten agents will be appointed without a form, but the commercial organizations will have another ten. The Marine and Agriculture Ministers board three and a traveling minister and a minister of education will also ship three each. Besides these 29 agents, the minister of foreign affairs is in the council, and he will also be its chairman. Then there shall also be in the council a council, with a council of councils outside the government, the minister of travel, and the minister of education, with representatives of a council at any given time. The bill suggests that the management board of the Iceland Office, an automaton, will be organized into five representatives for three years. Foreign Minister appoints two and three organizations of industry. The board is responsible for preparing for a long-term policy development proposal. She also decides how she will be brought into action and will evaluate her activities. The management board of the Iceland Office accepts the work and budget of the Iceland Office every year and supervises its implementation. The Board of Directors of the Iceland Office decides his salary. She also decides in the activities of the Iceland Institute and offers her main meetings. The bill suggests that the management board of the Iceland Bureau suggests that long-term government policy and commercial living for exports intended to promote increased export and economic growth. Long-term policy will be made for five years. The management board of the Iceland Office proposes the proposal for export and marketing advice for the management and approval of the EEA. Then the bill says that long-term policy has the aim of measuring the overall objective of the market work being carried out on national markets. Our course should include contains targets and focus for individual market areas and sectores and include measurable effectiveness targets. It's a set of 2 mg. 1st par. The bill states that the regulations of the administrative body, the information layer, the competitive song and the laws on public shopping are not relevant for the activities of the Iceland Bureau. That's 5th. The bill of the law on the rights and duties of the government is not relevant to the staff of an Iceland Home Office, an automaton. This proposal of the bill leads to the position of the Iceland Office that it will be based on the bill of self-employing a private-oriented institution, not intended to be an institution and a administrative agency. Therefore, administration and information laws cannot apply to Iceland's automaton institutions, as their standards are tied to government agencies and their administrations. The same is true of the staff law that is suggested not to be reached by the workers in Iceland, an automaton. In particular, in view of comments made by the emissary of the previously mentioned Councilman, Alduis, it is proper to take off all the doubles in these matters in the text itself. This is not the case with an Iceland lab being specifically abdicated by the above law but is the result of a change in Iceland's practice into an automaton. This is important to bear in mind. It is then suggested in the bill that the activities of Iceland, an automaton, do not agree with the laws on public shopping. A more detailed explanation and argument behind this proposal is in the paper with the bill. But in short, they are: The work of an Icelandic agency, an automaton, is more related to the exclusive business and the activities of an enterprise than to the activities of public members who are responsible for the service of the public economy. The work of the Iceland Office will be and will have been a part of the implementation of foreign policy and, therefore, international interests. They are not services to the general public and to individuals in the same sense as the activities and roles of the public agency, although they certainly contribute to national and national prosperity here. Although you can say that you have the right to make a decision on this in your bill. It's also a proposal in the bill that competitive laws do not apply to the activities of an Iceland lab, an automaton. Builds this suggestion in the realm of competition, as described in paragraphs 2 and 3. The law, and they're covering it in a paper with the bill. The same can be said of this proposal, as did the above, that although this is certainly a result of interpretation and interpretation of the law, it is appropriate to make an issue in the bill. Six. The bill is measured for a number of changes in the 5th paragraph. Iceland law on Iceland's income. It is suggested that the 1st party be removed and the wording of 2 and 5 will be changed. Then three new paragraphs are recommended to be added to the 5th paragraph. The aim of this change is to ensure that the funding of an Iceland lab, an automaton, will remain unchanged, i.e. by collection of market fees. The market will run into state funds, but that Iceland's firm will receive the equivalent of a sum of money on the basis of budgets. In other words, it has disappeared from the fact that Iceland's income will be founded on the market income as it has been, but instead of receiving direct contributions from the state fund in accordance with General Assembly decision and government law. The bill expects it to take into account the estimated revenues of the market at the current budget. It is also stated that Iceland's income should never be lower than the market fee. If the difference between the estimated revenues of the market and the actual pay is taken, correction will be expected to be made in budgets the following year. It should be noted that the bill is not expected to carry additional expenses for the state funds. The marketing fee, 0.05, will be set up to pay insurance fees according to the insurance bill and will be charged according to their regulations. It says Section 6. The bill is suggested that the state and Iceland Office, an automaton, make up a service agreement on the provision of budgets intended for market work in foreign markets, and fall under the Iceland Bureau's workspace under the law. A joke of such a service agreement follows the bill, as mentioned earlier. Service contracts will be collected under one hat the provision of market funds, which so far has been made through several contracts. This enables us to make use of the budget available and to increase transparency in the provision, which was just one of the objectives of the work group that wrote the report On Iceland. The bill expects the law to go into effect on July 1. In the provisional principle of Article 8. The bill consists of a number of laws that take place in the period leading to validation, including the law of the bill. that the current European Commission is working temporarily until the founding of an automaton which is expected to be the first of July 1. It is also stated that Iceland's property and commitments go to the new automaton that accepts its rights and duties. Then Iceland's Office will also be allowed to receive property that may have been proposed and conforms to its role. It is requested that the management board of Iceland, the automaton organisation, establish a meeting of organisational activities and organisations and propose the first suggestion that long-term policy development as a value to the end of 2023. A respectable president. I have explained the key elements of the bill and suggested that it be followed by this discussion referred to at the highest level. Foreign Affairs and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u182	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for the review of this bill. I intend to speak here with a brief talk afterwards, but I would like to ask the highest question. Minister to financing the Iceland lab. What's just to distract me from all of this is that it seems that, to my judgment, it seems, has not been achieved to explain the Agency's funding clearly enough, i.e. ... thatit is further assumed that the cost of business will come from the market, the State Department of State, the Department of Employment and Education, if I recall this correctly. I raised it and asked a minister if it was not possible to go to this complex service agreement - which is actually not easy to approach - I had to copy the link behind it to find it online - simply to move this money. These contracts list budgets that are supposed to run into Iceland. Would it not have been easier to simply move those projects and this money to the Ministry of State, so it wasn't that double or triune, or what we call it, that it wasn't a complex relationship. It would have been possible for specialists or interests and for some other reason for these problems. Actually, they're in the export and market council. I wondered if it could've been simple. Otherwise, I'm going to go through this in my talk later today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u183	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'm sure there are a number of factors to consider. As mentioned in my talk, this is a fairly big job, based on a discussion between the two parties. This was worked by a group, based on a report I mentioned, and I believe that was the case. In 2015 a senator had his hands on him. Hv. A foreign relations committee would have had to review some aspects of the matter, but it is a pleasure to have a good relationship with those who were present at the hands of the advisers and the firms of the economy, as well as with other parties that we can say are interest groups of professional living. That is how this conclusion is made. Of particular factors and legislators; I may not be handling it precisely in other respects, but I am content with the broad solidarity that has been established on how to handle the situation. This too is essential for our success. Because like a dog. A senator well knows how successful we are in the market application in foreign markets except by the good cooperation of employment and public agencies.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u184	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for his answer, and I want to state that I am very pleased with this bill. I think the bill is very good, and a lot of work is behind it. It's absolutely clear that it's very important to get better around these things. It is good to have agreement, especially with professional life. But I'm going to allow myself to recognize the problem. I believe that it is that no matter what their names are, a ministry does not want to give up an assignment or money because it contains a measure of value, power. That's where I think the dog's lying. Unfortunately, if we had simply given these assignments under the Ministry of State where I feel they belong, we could have achieved a better, simpler system. It should not be a marketing or market service in any other area. I just think it's crazy. I understand, however, the position of the minister. It had to be handled by some kind of agreement, it's clear. On the other hand, one day we have to get out of a pattern that if the Ministry gets a job or money, it's like a dog on redness.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u185	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear that. A senator is pleased with the bill, for he is very familiar with these matters. I think we agree, me and what. A senator, as far as any parties involved in the case need to work together. I think the basis for that cooperation is trust. At least my experience has been that. Hv. A senator used very pure English to describe what sometimes happens when people are working in their own corners and are not willing to add together because they are concerned that their group of paintings or what they are burning will somehow be left out. Now we've come together in this way. If things go the way they're supposed to, they'll worry about it, hopefully they'll be gone forever. We all have common interests to care for, no matter where men are in the import of Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u186	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of the tour of bill to legalize the law of the National Institute of Iceland. I agree that there are many good things there, and it is important to work systematically on Iceland's market. However, I may not have much knowledge of this matter as such, but there are certain bells or warning lights that blink. Yesterday, there was a special discussion about the distribution of tourists throughout the country. It repeatedly appeared in the case of tourism, industrial and employment ministers that the market rooms in the country could not be without an Iceland lab and an Icelandroom could not possibly be without them. After reading the bill that we discuss, I don't see that there is a clear channel and that is really just farfetched to find a way of working with these people so that they can become purposeful. Earlier today, a bill for a travel agency in which domestic marketing is actually disappearing from the role of a travel agency and moving to the Iceland lab and the market agency. There's something in the puzzle that doesn't fit in there, neither from the discussion that was conducted yesterday, nor from a discussion conducted at the Board of Directors and Control Committee earlier at this council, and that was just about the same thing. There's a full view missing. The question is, what choice do we have? A minister to set up a path in between?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u187	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator's distribution of tourists throughout the country is of great importance. When we talk about exports in Iceland, it's also closely linked to the region. We have, for example, considered exporting more as if we were exporting traditional products, fish and industrial products, but our largest export is actually moving tourists into the country. We have seen the tremendous revolution as we reach the country's borders of service, which has become useful both to tourists and to those who live there, and, of course, to us who are tourists in our own country. The big idea behind this is that we're working together, because we all have interests. An impenetrable part of it is to distribute tourists to more places than just the southwest corner. That's a totally unbreakable thing. But I think it's hard to write such a thing into law lyrics, because it's a big deal that we have service contracts, to do certain projects where the results are measurable, i.e. We are not going on an assignment, putting lots of money, and just saying when you ask, "It worked out great. " We need to know that if we are going on a project that we're sure to do, we need to prepare tourists to travel around the country. Then we also need to measure what it has done. If we are successful, we will continue. If we are not successful, we need to use other methods. The big idea behind this is, what? paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson did well. He knows from his previous jobs that we are now getting together that everyone is working together. We're here with the field where everyone can work together. I'm well aware of the point of view. When it comes to the distribution of tourists throughout the country, the senator did so. That's just one of the issues Iceland's firm has to work on.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u188	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers are particularly pleased to know that the role of the National Institute of Iceland is aimed at introducing the parts of the country so that tourists are spreading around the country, for there is, of course, one feature in maintaining demand for the country and finding even more target groups to attend the country. But I also wondered a little about the financing, like what. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson spoke earlier. What I stopped was, in fact, that market fee is part of an insurance company. I just don't know what market fees are. Is it included in the insurance bill, or is it specifically collected by the same stock? Is it, then, all the employees involved in that cost?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u189	A respectable president. The so - called market fee has a somewhat long history, and it is stated in the report and is quite remarkable. I'm not going to trace it all right now, but I don't quite remember it, I'll just admit it, though I've read it and studied it well, I'm not going to wear it now, except that there's too short time to do it. But this is really part of the insurance bill. This currency, though not widespread, began when we went to EFTA, if I recall correctly, in time to help sell mostly goods to them, but then also to the extent that we were getting more competition in this country. Thus, the income stock has arrived, and there has been a good agreement between the sector's business and the government taking that way to finance this activity.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u190	Madam President. I'd like to be curious at the highest. Minister of foreign affairs on this subject, which in many respects is interesting, and probably right and obliged to try to improve the outcome of these matters. I wondered why it is chosen to create an automaton. Self-employment agencies are a little strange. Sometimes people talk about money without a shepherd when such institutions begin to live independent lives. I understand the reasons why people don't want this for the government, don't have this for the administrations, I understand that and the reasons behind it, but there are other ways. It's, for example. this can be kept in the form of a public community. It is also possible to have it in the form of a private part of society that is not profitless. There are many examples. For example, the Technical School is expelled from a nonprofit society and certainly makes a service agreement with the State of Schools. I wondered why this route is gone, whether the other roads were not considered. In many ways, I think it would be better to take such a course. Then there's another thing I'd like to avoid, it's that men are leaving certain laws to the automaton, including Combat laws. One reason is that the Agency's activities are solely intended to influence abroad. The market work may be foreign, but the effects will all be in this country because the whole purpose of all of this is expected to be to move into the country. So I don't quite understand this argument. [[The president calls.]] So maybe at the latest what's about--now the President will call the bell night and night, and I'm thinking of stopping here, but maybe he can add a second answer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u191	President thanks a lot. A senator for stopping and respecting the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u192	A respectable president. I don't think we have to worry that this is gonna be, like, what's going to happen. A senator named, an institution that is like money without a shepherd. It is very clear where this institution lies in the administration system under the Presidential decision, but it has the uniqueness that this is a cooperation between industry and the government. This can be reasoned, and it is one of the tasks we do not resolve here that should, in the greater context, have a better frame when it comes to such cooperation between industry and public. In this regard, we should look to other countries to see how it is best to do so. However, the very idea is that this institution would always be based on an exclusive foundation. It was never the idea of being a government agency. If they come to that conclusion, the other person will conclude that the laws specified here are not relevant to the institution. This matter was handled very well in this group. However, the reason for this has taken that time is because humans considered to be skilled within the framework we need and should work at it, and the conclusion is this "empty thing. " It goes primarily to the point that we're getting together on a full view of Iceland that we're going to present in a foreign field, which all those who are exported will benefit in one way or another. I don't know that any of the countries we compare to have these in the state of state. The laws given there can be strongly reasoned that such institutions are not relevant at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u193	Madam President. Thank you very much. A minister for the answer, although I may have felt that it was a little vague. I trust those who have been working on this bill looked at, for example. it was a way of taking it through a private stock company that could be run without profit. Then if only a minister could help me figure out if Iceland's projects, an automaton, are the only ones that will be entrusted to them by a service contract. Or is there any other task that the Agency or the auto-replacement agency is going to work outside of this service contract? Then you can ask yourself: Has the Agency got free hands on what they do out of the service contract, or is it being tried to create a solution for the work to be the only one involved in the Service Convention? I notice that the Law itself refers to a five - year service contract. It's not five years old at the same time. [[The president calls.]] Can there be a situation where you can't make a contract in five years with an Iceland lab, an automaton? Or is this lapsus in the law so that a government service contract should always be held while the automaton operates? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u194	A respectable president. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator's concern is unnecessary. The big thing is that people have called for us as a nation, and that also means our professional life and public members together on how we're going to introduce Iceland and what we're going to stress and it's a great deal of peace. I think, for example. Clearly, we should stress sustainability, nature, quality, and other things, but there is something very important to make peace and to be what we present. Then we have an Iceland lab, which is the cooperation site of public parties and private members. In order to achieve the best results, it is wise that we be as clear as we can be about what assignments we are going in, which areas are measurable, and then we can determine how we will succeed in each case. If it goes well, we'll move forward, if we don't do well and we don't get the desired results, we'll change course. [[The president calls.]] I can no longer go on this minute exactly in this which I tried to cross into my frontal address, but I may have to cover it better afterwards so that everyone will be aware of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u195	Madam President. I thank you for this presentation, the highest. Minister and debate in the lobby. This is an interesting subject, and I want to begin by celebrating the fact that there's a series of restrictions and promotions and ambitions in the cooperation of industry and the public in this matter. I don't sit on the State Department. However, there are a few things that raise questions and speculations. I hope my words look either. The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, sitting here in the hall, or the highest. Minister. It may be the first thing about the change in government, as it has already been. It is turning from a seven - man government, where a minister commands more things, to a government of five people, with more than one body of employment organizations. There's certainly been an order of this export and marketing advice where ministers have majority orders. But it's not just that. When you look at this and think about the role of the professionals and then the State Department, which is aided by professionals in this business, we're leaving the board to represent the crisis. They're just representatives of the State Department, they're turning this around. I would be interested to discuss why these issues were being handled, why this change is. There's something else that caught my attention. There is the debate that during this change, the work of Iceland is excluded by competitive law. As far as I know, the EU regulations for government assistance would always apply. The work effort would still have to meet the demands of public will or financial rivalry within the European Economic Area. These changes in sectoral practices lead to the result of their own personal success, and the legal role of the public agency is no longer legal. What, then, are we accomplishing? Well, we're here talking foreign business. The biggest thing I'd like to do here and to be wondering about is that it's about to fall away from being looked after by the National Accounting Office annual revision of the office accounts of this change in an automaton. But the agency is still funded by the government. In 2009, when a bill for a law on the Iceland Institute, which then became the current law, was discussed here at the Parliament, the Government Reconclusion of a report on export efforts and land introductions that made it necessary for an Iceland Office to be more clear, especially in view of the fact that an Iceland Office will be responsible for making significant public funds. I need an explanation. By making the office a self - interest agency, it is being excluded from administrative laws and hence responsibility, but it still continues to receive this public income. They're creating a self-employment agency. It is uncertain whether the Council can take part in any longer changes in her organization if the management board is not consented to them, and we are talking about a greater part of the management or organisation of the economy; the Agency has an independent budget but accepts its government and laws intended to monitor the management of public funds for the Agency. I can't quite figure out where we can get in, we're taking care of how to handle the money. And there's a reason I didn't come up for a brief answer because I needed more time. But I really just want to call for that to be discussed, and it's going to be done, and it's going to be done more and more clearly. Because it's a delicate matter. We're all, I think, on the one hand, that we want to do this work as much as possible and right here, all of us. There must be no doubt about it, that there are no holes in it. That's our responsibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u196	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech, considering these things. It is only natural to ask these and other questions. With regard to the administrative arrangement, it is based on the experience that has been available to Iceland today. Hv. A senator referred to someone who should come to this. In this respect, the export and marketing Council is built up in this way, so that all agents, as well as the professionals there, are represented in this. It's 29 people. There is an condemnation, especially referred to the Scientific Council in the report. That's an arrangement that I've had most of my life. It's the idea that these parties will all have to come to the table if they'll agree on how we've introduced Iceland in a foreign field. This is certainly not the goal of making it difficult to observe how public funds are handled. At the very least, it involves the cooperation of industry and public citizens. While the market fee is considered in the way that the interpretation has been done and the agreement has been made, there is a price that is settled between the economy and the state to pay for it, it does not change the fact that we're not going to give any discount to monitor that money is handled well. Hv. A senator asks why a government decision is not given to take care of this. I'm gonna be honest with you because I'm just not quite sure why it is. There's been a series of factors going through there. I trust these factors are reviewed. The Foreign Affairs Committee, and it's checked.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u197	President. Thank you very much. Minister for coming up and saying things to explain things. He concluded by referring the case to the State Department, that it explains a certain matter. I agree with that and thank you for the urgency. My initial question with regard to the export and market council, where this Ministry of Education has a representative, is about a role. It is the government responsible for preparing a proposal that long-term government policy development and commercial living for exporting are aimed at promoting increased exports, interest and so forth, while more control is being made to agree and monitor implementation. It's a question why it's in there where the Ministry of Justice has its representatives instead of the board and why the government's proportions are as it is. But the highest. The minister did all right. At least I have brought up the points that were of interest to me at first glance. I say like what? paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson earlier, that I was too late to figure out how to link these service contracts and that something else was in the bill. I may be able to adjust it later on when it comes to the second.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u198	A respectable president. So I'm going over, because I think it's important for everybody to be in the same place, the overall picture of this. They're not trying to invent the bike. People are looking to the nations in such an excellent way. It's about having this scene, this device, where people who have to work together to be successful can work together. It is more efficient to have five men in charge, but it is very important that all the members who will be involved in this matter. There's 29. I received criticism in a presentation on this subject: How can you be of 29? I can't see it can be any less. If we look at the representatives of the stewards, the Ministry of Education and Culture, nothing will be less than three there. For example, there are so many things under there. Not taking it alone is not enough. It must then work. I think we have a device that should make any team working together can work together. I think it's very good to do this by contracts and special projects. I think it's extremely important that they are as measurable as possible. I have seen so many people putting money into everything between heaven and earth, especially when these matters come into play. So when asked about the results, it is said that they were doing very well. But it was never originally put up to try to measure the effect it would have on us. That's the basic idea behind all of this. We're working at the council in a way that allows us to produce bills that are addressed to the committee, hear some comments, and examine some of the factors. It's just something I trust. The Foreign Affairs Committee and the Parliament to do so. If there's anything better to go on, we'll just go over it. But I think it's very important to realize that behind this, there are an enormous amount of work that many people have to work together and that they have agreed on these things. We need to take it into account when discussing these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u199	President. Thanks again to the highest. Minister for reviewing the situation. I completely agree with him that much is more important, when it comes to sharing public funds designed for specific projects, than that measures are set and the results can be evaluated. There's no question about that. I fully support him in that effort. However, it is, in effect, the very point that this is an enormous sum of money. I think I'll handle it correctly in view of the 2016 Icelandic annual account that the roll or income is 1.2 billion; it's somehow divided. There is a change here that makes the law intended to oversee the treatment of government funds no longer applies. The government is organized to five men, and the majority of it is professional, not political. It is a matter of not forgetting that we are responsible, that we are careful about these things. I'll finish this by agreeing with the highest level. Minister who is confident that the matter will be handled well by the Foreign Affairs Committee. I look forward to this future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u200	A respectable president. As I came to this site, we answered at the highest. Minister, I am pleased that this matter is before the council. As mentioned at the highest. The minister and the report shows that the case had some consequences, and while I was sitting there, I was doing quite a lot of work in the Ministry. I'd like to mention that it's very important when we're discussing issues like this, where the government and private sector come together that they listen carefully after the private sector's emphasis, especially. That, of course, was done. I want to use this opportunity here to thank Magnús Bjarnason, who, although of the past, went on this assignment for me at his time. After all, it is not possible to finish everything at the minister's appointment, so I am very happy that the case should come in here and be in the big picture as suggested. But I'm gonna roll up two, three things. First of all, I'm just wondering, we'll discuss it further, of course, with the Foreign Affairs Committee, 2 gr. The bill, then 4. Two. is referred to as the export and market Council in Article 4. is about the government of Iceland. Two. for the export and market Council, by permission of the President: The Council's warrants, accepts, and monitors the implementation of long-term government and commercial policies prior to marketing and export. In Comb 4. is, by permission of the president: The European Commission, the European Commission, shall make a suggestion that long-term government and commercial policies for export... No doubt there is no conflict between this concept use, however, we need to explain this so that it is quite clear what is in each law, so that the export and market authorities understand their respective roles properly. That is what the Bible says at 2 Timothy 3: 1. ... withauthority of the President's permission: ▪ The year shall consider suggestions for projects...•Environment # I wondered, " Do these suggestions come from a government or just from a town that is, as presented here, in cooperation with industry and the government? ' This is something that we simply explain to the committee. I'm gonna come back to the budget. I'm gonna let myself go here with numbers I'm not sure I'm right, it's just gonna have to be. One day I was looking at these things a long time ago, and I remember Malta had about 50 people in selling investors of Malta, i.e. Do the same thing as Iceland's investment firm is doing today, I think they're three or four employees in that area of Iceland. You wonder if you are looking far ahead. I would have liked to see that in these new laws, the financing was under way, but I haven't got the solution here. I think it takes a lot more money into the Iceland lab to prepare the future, prepare where we are in 10 or 20 years. We need to look so far ahead when preparing or trying to get investors and promote our job life in Iceland. We can't be running from day to day and putting out fires. We've seen an Icelandic agency come in with a petition to the budget board about 50 million and that and that. All we need to do is make sure that there's enough money to do what's in there and wait for us. I reiterate because what I said earlier that, first of all, I thought, maybe easy to tell from this chair, that we should have walked all the way by ensuring the funds of other councils directly to the State Department and directly into the Iceland Office or an auto-employment agency and these projects, have nothing to do with these contracts as an intermediary. Second, I think that business needs to be put together in the pursuit of more money on the economy as well as on the state so that the funds of the Iceland Office have become huge. Then third, I think it's important to explain one point, I'm going to let me interpret it here. It says 6th. that the market fee, 0.05%, should be added to the target population. So I looked up the law No. 113/190 on insurance fees, and for the sake of doubt, I get it so that even if we go to lower the insurance bill, this currency is not going to change, i.e. This 0.05% of the fee paid by the Iceland Office will not change if we cut down the insurance, as the currency is always the same. On the other hand, if this government makes its face, the insurance fees will, hopefully, decline, but there will still be a currency to be available in Iceland. A respectable president. I don't think there's much in it to add. This, of course, will be discussed in the Foreign Affairs Committee. There we need to consider the financing, as I think it is. Of course, we need to listen to other comments presented here. Overall, I think this bill is good. It's very important to explain the position of the Iceland Institute of Independence, as listed here. I think it's a very fancy arrangement, actually. We need to explain this. We need to do the Agency so that it can exert itself vigorously, both in how it is built up and in the same way as money and so forth.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u201	Madam President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir For his speech and review, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson has had experience with this ministry that is worth paying attention to and listening and has been involved in these matters before. I agree that there are a lot of good things in this bill. There's a lot going on about the launch of Iceland, but I'm coming to my next talk, what's exactly that I've had doubts about. My first question to the head. A senator is about the fact that we are always trying to learn from experience. I have to say, at first glance and lecture on the bill, I don't think that responsibility is sufficiently defined. It is charged with fees, and it is very clearly stated in the bill that there is nothing that will fall on the state funds, no financial commitments, expenses, work expenses, administrative expenses, monitoring responsibilities, research or other expenses will result from the approved bill. All right. Nevertheless, we are about to go along with the possibility of accepting these frameworks. I wondered, " Why don't you just have your professional life with this? ' The price comes from there. Why is the State to get involved in this way? It may be that in some way, the State is the foundation for professional living to set up this institution. Is it not better to make this quite clear, then, that the market fee will go to one of the projects or organisations completely handled by the industry, or that this will be an official organisation with the monitoring provided by the National Reconclusion? It's just like the birth stock fund, which is financed by the company's insurance fees. Of course, that's the government's fund. I think it must be clear where the responsibility is as soon as I say it's important that we try to frame up Iceland's markets by far more than ever. It's time we went to the next level. But my question to why. The senator is: Is the responsibility clearly clear enough in line with the financing position in the Iceland lab? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u202	A respectable president. I'm just gonna honestly say that I haven't really wondered if it's clear enough in the law when it comes to the responsible role the Senator is talking about. I think it's very important that we go over it. I believe, however, that the project will always be the cooperation of industry and the State. One example is all of them - all of them, they're not too many, Iceland's emissary emissary emissary emissary emissaries and contracts around the world that play a role for Iceland's marketing, business support and contracts, etc. Of course, it is possible to approach in a way that differs from what is suggested here. On the other hand, I think it's a way of thinking about employment, as I understand it, that this collective responsibility is there, even though professional life compared to this bill, that may be the way it is, is more responsible than the state is seen in the three-to-two administrations. It is true, however, that there is considerable wealth that comes from the workplace into this package together. In fact, they do not simply come through the market fee in reality, for of course, it may be farfetched, some of which come first from the job crisis. But my opinion is that we need large amounts of money to an Iceland lab in this long-term market application. If we are going to be able to look forward, if we are going to reach the target, to double or triple the export value of 2030, something like that, we need to spit in to get it. Is that clear enough? Is your responsibility clear enough? I'm afraid to answer that now.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u203	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for this. I'm sure we're all in that same bus trying to increase our exports and market our goods, anyway, in the field of culture, fishing soil, agriculture, whatever. But the strings need to be synchronized and adjusted much better. I'm going to watch this bill as any kind of effort. This is vital, and how happy it is that the career that such ones want to fulfill that responsibility! What I'm simply saying is that we, who are members of the State Department of State and who are expected to receive this bill there must ask a public accountant, a financial surveillance agency, very carefully whether this is the right arrangement. At the same time, we must not lose this mattress, which means that our professional life comes in responsibly in there. I think this is something that must be explained as soon as there are some speculations that I come up with in my talk afterward, as in 2 g. for the export and market policies. How extensive is that power? According to the article itself, there seems to be a lot of cause, but it says: The Council's warrants, accepts, and monitors the implementation of long-term government and commercial policies prior to marketing and export. Are we saying that they were in charge of tasks such as Iceland Naturalally and Pure Ice Island, various projects that have been carried out in the Ministry at any given time? A senator was also in front of me in his time, in the Sea Scourge and Agriculture Ministry? How extensive is the authority of the Governing Body in this regard? Then it is important to know what has been done in the coordination of advisers, that the Ministry has been together in this. I know there was a search at the Sea Scourge and Agriculture Department in its time, and my assistant arrived, including To this. But it's important that the Ministry rests on the propulsion that this is actually working because we know well that in the end there will always be a conflict between recruitment. [[The president calls.]] Will this bill prevent or contribute to further cooperation between council members of the council, in the opinion of the senator? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u204	A respectable president. I'm going to say that this bill is not going to prevent tension between recruitments, I think it's perfectly clear. On the other hand, if the money side had been somewhat clearer, it might have reduced the tension. Of course, the goal of the bill is to simplify and try to unite this vision with all that is so important. It's the effort I'm happy with, that they're trying to reach out for these things. We may have been shooting our guns too long in every direction. It is so important that the messages are the same, the messages are simple and accurate when we are actually marketing and selling our large country, which we actually don't have many people living on. In some ways, we've been doing fine. It did well and is, like, still running Inspired by Iceland, where men were focusing on simplifying their message. But when it comes to selling goods, selling fish or meat, or getting tourists in Iceland, something like that, selling music or books, we have to be able to settle all the work, the consistent message we're sending. I think it'll do better when it comes to it. As for the export and market council, I think it is important that there is some advice or advice that has opinions on the issues and goals of which many stakeholders are involved, but there may be something more important to explain the role of the Council, I'm not saying. It is very important, though, that we do not begin to make a string that does not decompose. I think it's the best thing to do. Minister with the bill is preventing that from happening. At the very least, the outcome would be worse than at home. It is very important that what we get out of this is simple and good; it will be a progressive self - interest agency that we can back up with pride.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u205	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for this discussion, and it's been very interesting, and I think it was very helpful too. The bill may not be giving in to much, but it contains many important factors. Hv. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, in his speech, entered his previous life as the highest. Secretary of State and his presence in preparation for this matter. So I wanted to touch it as a matter of course. paritaprevir Líneik Saevarsdóttir Línik Anna Sævarsdóttir had an earlier discussion at the highest level. The minister of the foreign affairs of Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson, who is the presence of part of the country, arrived at the market room. When you read the bill, it's about, if I remember correctly, that they could possibly be in the profession or something like that. But I would feel that the market agencies and their role in the market and in the country's markets are particularly important. I hear in a conversation with their officers that they are concerned that their arrival in Iceland is not guaranteed. I'm a little curious to hear what it's all about. A senator is familiar with the discussion at work that took place before, when preparing this bill, and then how. A senator sees that the arrival of the parts of the country could possibly be in the operation of an Iceland lab. It'll probably be a little more complicated when this is in the form suggested here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u206	A respectable president. In the preparation that took place between 2013 and 2015, 2016 was not specifically being viewed as part of the country. However, I am familiar with the discussions from the marketing office and from abroad regarding the work being done in the Iceland Office. Of course, it is true that humans never feel that there is too much work to be done and that such things could have been done better. As much as I love everything in the country, I don't see how anyone with some kind of value should be involved in the changes involved here. I'm sure, however, that those agents sitting in this new export and marketing council must be well connected. Take, for example, the representative of the scheme, the traveling minister, who will be represented there, of course, must be well connected in the part of the country. Let's not forget that this bill is not a changing of the Icelandic law, it's just being improved. It is clear that this new self - interest agency will have certain responsibilities toward all Icelanders, the whole country. It is for us to follow through after we do not relax there. I also further remind you that an Iceland lab is the work of professional life and State. Of course, it has many complications. But I still think this is the best way to get the best results.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u207	President. Thank you for your clear answer. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi, Sveinsson's son. I think it's extremely important that we be a little alert to this arrival in the part of the country, i.e. Whether it is formalized through some kind of professional advice or such and also that it is actually put under pressure in the Iceland lab to care for national items other than the southwest corner. Unfortunately, they have been willing to burn. The situation has now been made up of a special donation made to the marketing agency, which means that they are now being directed to the National Institute of Iceland. Icelandroom just says, "Hey, this isn't our table, we don't have the money to win this thing. Unfortunately, the market agencies are repeatedly involved in this limbo between recruitment agents or institutions, as in this case. We must look to the work of the Iceland Office and in another bill that was discussed here earlier, on a travel agency, not to forget the important role that the local and national institutions have in the marketing of Iceland. We have many very interesting examples of projects where cooperation has been between Iceland and the parts of the country, e.g. Ash Guðmundur, who I'm sure a lot of people remember. I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity and say I hope you will. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, and I ask him if he will not agree with me that it is important that this emphasis on the whole country come through and it is seen more than just on the southwest corner as it was shown in the travel minister's report, is up to the limit of endurance. Surely we too must have to spread the land to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u208	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. Two. This excellent bill says, and I actually did it for the subject here before, by permission of the president: The study shall address suggestions on working together with industry and the government to ensure that such projects fall into a long term policy market. This may be considered a way for the party to make a suggestion in there. But I agree with what. A senator, of course, says that financial resources need to be guaranteed. That's what I may have been saying here, there's too little money in this shit. I took up here to counter the proposal to conspire policy development in a based program for 2018-2024. It's interesting for us to go through that document in the light of the discussion here and to say what. The senator; to go through this strategy, and to consider whether it is not important to address these concerns of the senator in policy-making policies and to ensure that there is a candidate for financing and follow-up and that the objective of the marketing agency is achieved.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u209	Madam President. I'd like to start by celebrating the opportunity to discuss this bill to legalize a new Iceland law, with subsequent changes. There is a fundamental change in the bill. They're changing a government agency into an automaton. Not everyone is impressed that you have a latrine in this chair compared with the words that have fallen on the part of a prime minister yesterday, but I have to say that I want to ask the highest order. Secretary of State, congratulations on this first attempt to privatize on watch Left Green in Prime Minister. Then it's ours here at the council, including of the Foreign Affairs Committee, to see what this means. First of all, we want to get what we want, increase the market of Icelandic products, our export products, whatever their names are, whether in the form of goods, services, cultures, lists, etc.? Are we reaching that goal by this bill? Are we, second of all, putting all our hands on deck so that we can do this with the most power? Above all, we are also fulfilling what we have to go through, that it is transparent, and that the use of funds that go through the treasure is responsible. In answer to Gunnar. Sveinsson I mentioned that it seems completely funded, I believe, by what it says on the bill, on the part of the economy. There's nothing to fit into the project on the part of the government, it seems to me, unless a minister later corrected it. So I wondered, " Why are we going that way? ' I want to understand it so that my career life puts great emphasis on getting the public involved in this expedition. I think it's good. But, clearly, is that sufficient? So why not have this private rights company, keep this totally on the basis of jobs, that they simply handle these processes themselves, and call out to the public as necessary? We have been infuriated by the fact that when these issues are not set out in the state books, the role of public institutions, for example, the Substitute Agent of the Council, and the National Review have provided very clear tips. It is quoted in this article. Either the role of the Agency, Iceland, is requested to be clear as a public agency or as a private rights institution. We've got an auto-replacement agency here. These are simply speculations on my part that I would like to make in this context. We must be careful. We will consider these aspects very carefully on the Foreign Affairs Committee. I don't want to see this as an institution where it's being tried to get out of the state alone, to create a silk hat clinic for a foreign minister or professional life. I would like to see this real institution, whether it is a public or an automaton, which actually agrees with the introduction of the report, to review a comprehensive marketing format in Iceland and Icelandic products and services abroad. I feel like there's a little bit of a lack of this real conversation. We all agree that there is always a conflict between them. For example, the word "whit. " paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, who has a lot of experience in legal matters. It's not being prevented. I think it's a little bit sad. I'm afraid most surfaces of this have not been clocked. Happily, there will still be work within the family crisis that will result in their custody. But have they been integrated enough into this so that we are using all our resources so that the marketing will be in the best interests of Iceland? That's what we need to go through with the Department of Employment, that's what we need to call ourselves, and ask that question. I remember, too, last year when this case came up, that there was a lot of opposition within the Ministry of finance and, in part, within the Ministry of Employment on the fifth floor. Not on the sixth, but on the fifth. This is the thing we only need to look up in our plots. Why is this opposition? Why was this really stopped by the Ministry of finance? Have the comments made there been considered? When we say that we want to do this well, that does not mean to stop the matter, but we bring the changes that will be needed to support much more fully the purpose of this bill. I think to make it possible for you to explain clearly what the export and marketing plan means. There is a reference to the Scientific and Technical Council in this context. Science and technology, and the funds underneath, are largely financed by the state. There's a bit of a different situation. But that's where they're trying. Scientific and technical advice has given rise to a great deal of success. One of the best, I think, which has been happening since 2000 or 2001, when the Science and Technical Council legislation was adopted, is how they have evolved, stopped for a while, and then has been step forward because everyone is sitting at the table. I believe that it is the purpose of this bill to have all the voices at the table. At the same time, it means that the Ministry of Education and Culture, the Ministry of Employment, possibly the Environment Ministry, is then a subsidiary with its entire market against the council. Will the export and market be the authority, the cover, to the Department of Education where they have a obligation to consult? It would be intriguing to hear how a minister himself sees this. We must do everything we can to make this approach as complete as we can, and we try to use the energy involved in making the most of our professional life as selective as it really is. I also wondered about certain issues that have occurred in the past with regard to large and important labels of Iceland. Who's that for Iceland that's gonna take the heat for us? Shall we mention the Scorpio? We lost it because no one thought it would be popular. Then there's a foreign business today, Arla and others, and also Siggi's skirming out in the United States, who have managed to adopt the brand I'm driving straight to Iceland. We lost it. For example, we now stand in front of Iceland. What's that vision, who's to shape it, who's to secure that brand for Iceland's hand? Will it shape a certain course, a specific view? There are huge interests below us. There are other brands that are important to us as Icelanders. It's something else. I'll swing the rest and this, go back and forth, I'll be happy to admit it, Mr. President. But I think it'll be interesting to go over this with those people who have come to us to write this bill as soon as I see that we'll call the state's surveillance agencies and give them specific guidance on how it's best to do this; get them to join us to guide us to the very existence that from the Council, the strongest bill that we can produce to support the work, the market, etc. It would also be interesting to know, because I was able to do so earlier, that this is the first attempt to make personalization on the watch of the left movement, a green bid, whether a harmony is in the government on this matter, and whether a comment has been made on the part of the left green, whether there's a warning on this case on the part of them on this case, which, if well, must be done, can become an enormous plot for us. I want to keep this from being some silk hat institution. I'd much rather see it in this particular mattress. They come in more often than they do in public.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u210	A respectable president. I thank them. Parliamentaries who have participated in this discussion. I've thought she's rich and good. So the comments that happened by the Hanna. Friðriksson It's normal to be able to do that, to have something between a ship and a dock, that our idea of a government reexamination takes out and reviewed this institution. I hope so. A committee makes such a change. In addition, paediatric patients were affected. paritaprevir The question of whether the market fee would decline, or the insurance bill, is Gunnar Sveinsson Svenson. Simply the answer is no. It's not connected. It shall not be, that it may be kept ready. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir is wondering why the State is about to do this. It is the opinion of everyone in this matter that it is important that public members and professional life work together on this. Perhaps one of the problems has been that humans aren't always doing it. Not only are public members sending the same messages but they have not always met together. It may never be achieved, but in the larger film at least it is very important that all the members of the team who are working to introduce the country as an investment and to increase the export work together. That's why they're here. It's supposed to be the scene to work on it. I love it when it rains. A senator says I'll be standing by for personalization. When I hear it, I'm so excited. But I can't quite take pride in that, simply because it never stood for a government agency. Comments came later, from the U.S. Councilman's agency, that the Agency's administrative position should be explained, but it was never meant and never meant by an Icelandic agency that it would become a government agency, for example, the employees have never been government workers. The task had to be completed to explain it. It's done with this bill. Hv. A senator wondered what it's like for the brand Icelandc. That is something the foreign service has been working on and will, of course, continue. But it happened today that it was given by the Organization Fund. Delivering it to the government was the last act of the enterprise, with the goal of making good use of it in the market. What a joy and satisfaction that was! The idea is that they'll be hosted in an Iceland lab, an automaton. The budget of each year, which eventually comes for an Icelandic agency, is expected to be set up at a total of 1 billion dollars per year, from more budgets. As already noted, there will be a government service agreement and a government agency, an automaton that covers all these budgets and services involved in the contracts. This would for the first time be collected under one hat provision for the money so far, made with several separate contracts. This is followed by one of the main objectives set by the work group, to make better use of the funds available, and to increase transparency in its provision. I want to draw attention to what. What are some articles of the bill on page 6? 13th I feel like there's a good understanding of the structure and thought behind the export and market council that's one of the terms in this bill. With President's permission, I'd like to read here only from: There is no consistent long-term market policy on foreign soil. Iceland's image is not designed to cooperate within the country with a market job. This is intended to change a policy in which most, if not all, exports can work together in the image that Iceland has in foreign markets. It needs to be particularly concerned with the interaction between private initiative and public and how to best use mutual energy for targeted marketing and co-ordination. Strong harmony, some sort of joke, has to be created in all basics and presentations. An image and reputation must be based on Iceland's unique status which can be linked to all the major exports and policy of direct new foreign investments. The message also needs to respond to consumers'expectations and market demand. The aim of the establishment of the export and market Council is to strengthen long-term policy development in Iceland's marketing work in foreign countries. A stronger link exists between the government and the export process. Political responsibilities are made more firmly. Similarly, a wider approach to this policy is provided that makes the final policy more likely to take into account the majority of interest. This form of advice also provides opportunities to have a wide understanding of market issues, shape of image policy in Iceland, etc. Like what? A senator referred to earlier, and at the beginning of my discussion, the role model is largely attended by the Scientific and Technical Council. Later, a respectable president says: It is suggested that four - year - old arrangements be made at the same time. In view of the report of the work group that stressed that the long-term design was that it did not have to undergo a special review at the beginning of each terms. It is specifically stated that the export and market Council is permitted to set out specific tasks that work between meetings in the Council itself. This, for example, allows you to deal with specific issues of your individual employment or market markets. It can be seen that a particular group has been hired for travel services, markets in Asia, etc. This aims to keep specific tasks within the framework of management, but also professionally, where the work of such groups would be targeted for the long-term policy. I think it's wise to put these things into place in this way. Although large, i.e. 29 persons, I think it is necessary to achieve a wide degree of solidarity. All involved must simply come to this table. I can't help hearing that at least they can. Those who have spoken here have a positive attitude toward this change. It's a pleasure. A great deal of work has been put on trying to achieve a broad solidarity over the bill. Of course, there is agreement on the bill in the government, otherwise it would not be submitted, but also between those stakeholders. The reason that it has taken a long time to prepare it, since it has taken a long time, is, I would say, largely because there are some technical solutions that have had to be processed to provide the bill. It is just that among other things, people are responding to the comments that have been made in public surveillance institutions and are achieving the goals proposed in the bill. It is not merely discussing achieving political solidarity; it is also a matter of finding out the various technical projects that humans have had to work to reach their desired goals.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u211	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. Minister for this sum. An article with the bill says that the general law on automaton will not apply to Iceland, but this law will apply to it because it is a special law. National law, as we know it, goes beyond that. What's the difference? What exactly does this involve? Are you hiding in this increased maintenance over an Iceland lab? Increasing transparency of decisions? Now Iceland's Office is the exception of administrative legislation and its monitoring. What's the difference between the fact that an Iceland lab is then the exception of the general law on vocracies and solely on this bill that may be legal. That may be the first question. Then I simply want to point out what an agent concluded in his opinion when he went over the office of Iceland and before the Export Council. Then he says that, in fact, it is official government to discuss the whole picture. He concludes that it is official government. These two advantages would be to make Iceland a formal public institution of rights and responsibilities, and to clearly state the law that this is a business in cooperation with government and professional life. That's the way it's been gone. That's why I like to mention that it's the way the minister of state chose to help him with the left green.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u212	A respectable president. Like what? A senator referred to comments from an agent who felt that the role of the Agency and the position needed to be explained. It was never the thought of being a government agency. It was never set in motion, and there is no agreement with the sector's bodies to do so. She was never to serve as a government agency. So when this situation arises, we need to respond. The result is that she will become an institution of self - interest. As a result, these laws are not relevant. In order to eliminate any ambiguity, it is written into the bill so that we do not become in the same position that we were in when comments came from the Council's agent. I hear there's some scaffolding and maybe some teasing. A senator, not to the people here, but to the members of the company. I'm not going to make a lot of effort to stop it. But it does not change the fact that this was never to be a government agency. At least I can't hit my chest and say that I've taken a government office and I've taken it personally because it was never shut down. If these comments had not come from the U.S. Marshal's agent, they would probably not have made some particular decision that this was a private institution and that the laws relevant to government institutions and government institutions are not relevant.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u213	Mr. President. I'm gonna wait until the hearing comes to a committee and maybe for a second discussion. I thought it was the highest. Ministers do not answer entirely the difference between the general law on the private institution and this special law. What is the difference between the fact that an Iceland Lab and its values depend solely on these laws against the fact that it agrees with a general law on the possession of an institution? It would be fine if a minister went over it. I have to admit, it's such a wonderful day. I know it's the highest. Minister will share it with me. It's so hard to have some shots at this time of the wonderful day that a minister knows exactly what it means. But I want to wish him well in his conversations, especially with his assistant, and I encourage him to discuss this day's finals long and well with him as we, of course, will seriously review this important matter. I'm glad we get a chance to talk about this. It is important for Iceland's interests that we coordinate the forces of industry and the public and that the outcome will be so that we can all agree that Iceland will always play to an ultimatum, just as a great team will do when Kiev arrives at the end of May.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-10-46.u214	A respectable president. I agree with most of it as a dog. A senator spoke here. The results of today are extremely good. But all indignities are what they are. The senator that this causes tension between me and my assistant may not be entirely out of the air. [[Balds of laughter in the chamber of Congress.]] But we've had more difficult times now, me and my assistant, when it comes to the factors as well. A senator mentioned and reviewed perfectly well, which is also extremely important to the National Institute of Iceland, an automaton. But my assistant and I have made it through a more difficult outcome than this one, and we will definitely continue to do so. I have to admit, I don't remember what happened. A senator was asking about the fact that I left I had the same dream. A senator is already at the sports match she was referring to. [[Self-employment agencies, general laws on private institutions, special requirements.]] To make a long story short, when it comes to spontaneous institutions, let the story be told as it is, and I went over a little earlier; that we met, when it comes to cooperation between private and public bodies, have a clearer and better law frame, a better frame. It's not going to be solved here. The results of this work are based on the fact that after much overcrowding between recruitment and employment, this is the solution that was found best and could reach the goals we can call - a respectable president, even though I'm gonna have to forgive - this is such a barbaric private partnership. It's just that it has to say, as it is, that it doesn't make sense in our environment. Doing so is a very special goal. Hence, this conclusion has come. It was examined, I think, most if not all that could be considered in connection with it. This is what we believe is the best outcome in this regard.
